Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today's call will include projections assumptions and guidance that are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this morning's call followed by the President and COO Jeff Hume and then our question-and-answer period.
Additional members of management are available to answer your questions.
Now we'll turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Please proceed.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on our conference call today.
In North Dakota hockey is by far the most popular sport up there.
To win the cup a team must be fast to seize opportunity and consistent in its execution to score goals.
We think that Continental's first quarter performance shows that same consistency and will be a clear reflection of the rest of the year.
In fact I believe our next several earnings call will sound very similar.
We have almost a year and half under our belt in this 5-year plan to triple production and improve reserves from year-end 2009 to year-end 2014.
And report this morning we’re right on track.
In fact first quarter production was stronger than we expected it to be thanks to improving well results in the Bakken and Oklahoma Woodford and a great job done by our operating teams during the winter and spring months.
We reported average production of 51 663 Boepd for the first quarter of 2011 a 34% increase over the first quarter of 2010 and an 8% increase over the fourth quarter of last year.
You'll recall that in late February we reported our fourth quarter production was 27% higher on a year-over-year basis and 7% higher than the immediate previous quarter.
So the pace of production growth is accelerating as we expected.
Fourth quarter was strong first quarter was stronger and we're continuing to grow production in the current quarter.
74% of our first quarter production was crude oil but the liquids-rich natural gas production in the Anadarko Woodford has grown to the point that it’s starting to impact our overall results.
We're feeling pretty positive about this higher percentage of gas given the recent 20% increase in natural gas prices subsequent to the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
Bakken production was 25 523 Boepd in the quarter an increase of 67% over the first quarter of 2010 and 13% on a consecutive quarter basis.
Anadarko production -- Anadarko Woodford production growth was 190% on a year-over-year basis; but of course that's off a small base.
We had only 3 operating drill rigs in play in May last year and today we're up to 10.
We keep talking about the Bakken and the Anadarko Woodford because that's where the CapEx and growth focus are in the company.
However it's useful to note that we're maintaining a very important basic production in the Red River Units up slightly over the first quarter last year and the Arkoma Woodford where production was 4 065 Boepd in the first quarter of 2011.
That's an increase of 17% over the first quarter last year.
And we have only one rig running over there in that play.
In our earnings report last night you saw a larger-than-normal group of Bakken wells in our notables list and initial production rate tells the story.
We were operator in completing 25 gross wells 15.7 net in the first quarter 2011.
And of those we had 12 wells in North Dakota that tested over 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The strongest the Bud 1-19H tested at almost 2 000 barrels.
To repeat we continued to restrict initial production on many of our wells to minimize flaring and to deliver as much of the rich gas in these wells as possible to market.
Some of these wells initially produce for several days reporting tubing pressures of more than 3 000 psi though they could've tested double or more than announced rates as we mentioned in the release.
The bottom line here is production growth.
We grew production 67% year-over-year in the Bakken.
Next let me point you to the fact that 6 of our 8 strongest wells in North Dakota were in what we call the Williston Prospect in western McKenzie and Williams County west of Nesson Anticline.
This is exploratory country where we and other operators are still figuring out what we have over there.
Just this week we completed the Akron 1-27H 57% working interest in this area.
It tested at 1 407 Boepd flowing at 3 600 psi on a 16/64" choke.
This is a very strong well.
Jeff has noted on previous conference calls that we expected this whole area from Nesson west to the Elm Coulee in Montana to be de-risked and built in over the next several years.
And that's exactly what's happening and it's happening very quickly.
Finally you probably noted that we're talking more and more about the Bakken and less about North Dakota versus Montana.
The 3 Montana wells we announced indicate why.
There initial test rates range from 836 Boepd to 1 163 Boepd.
Sort of looks like North Dakota wells don't they? We highlighted the fact that we're experimenting with a number of variables in our completions.
For the first time in years we're using some sliding-sleeve systems along with perf-and-plug.
We're varying the number of stages 24 standard but designs range from 18 to 30 stages depending on where it's at.
And we just pumped our first highway frac which pulses proppant into the frac zone instead of injecting it under continuous but increasing concentrations.
Twice as many variables because we're still in the first or second round of the Bakken game.
Technology continues to get better.
Last year's most efficient completion approach is not the most efficient economic answer today.
As we find better ways to complete these wells we adapt and change especially when there are tens of thousands of wells to be drilled in the Bakken play over the next 2 to 3 decades.
Finally for Continental it comes down to cash flow.
We reported $269 million in EBITDAX for the first quarter of 2011.
This is 53% higher than cash flow generated in the first quarter of 2010 and an increase of 22% over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Here's one example of how well our teams are dealing with the challenging conditions that we have up there.
In recent months we've heard a lot of operators and investors worrying about the transportation capacity out of the Bakken.
Not enough pipeline space railroad shipping not coming on fast enough et cetera.
As a long-time operator in the basin up there one of the first in fact Continental has a number of competitive advantages that others lack.
When the pipelines companies increase their capacity we're first in line for our share of it.
We market our own oil and we ship on all the Bakken pipeline systems.
Plus we're shipping by rail out of 3 separate facilities.
So we can adapt when bottlenecks cause problems.
Going east to Clearbrook or South Guernsey we can fit capacity.
The result despite all the negative noise in the first quarter we reported a differential of $9.21 per barrel for the first quarter of 2011 clearly above the midpoint of our full year guidance of $8 to $10.
Finally we reported a net loss for the first quarter of 2011 of $0.80 per share.
But this was primarily reflected in a non-cash unrealized loss on marked-to-market derivative instruments.
That with a small impairment loss and a small gain on sales of assets reduced earnings by $1.33 per share.
John Hart our CFO is here to provide additional color if needed.
Though we've discussed our derivatives strategies every quarter for the past year and I'm sure everyone understands this is an accounting impact not a cash or EBITDAX impact related to the current high level of crude oil prices.
Our hedging activity over the past year as we said is a direct reflection of the long-term strategy to underpin our drilling activity as we triple production and prove reserves.
Production growth is accelerating.
We've layered in price hedges primarily on oil to provide a solid cash flow stream that will enable us to grow with what we believe will be very favorable returns despite oil pricing volatility.
For additional details on our derivative swaps and collars please refer to the 10-K and the 10-Q that will be filed in the next few days or feel free to ask John for more color on these trades.
Now in closing let me step back and provide a 35 000-foot view of Continental's operations and our opportunities especially in the Bakken and the Anadarko Woodford.
Last week at the request of Secretary of the Interior Salazar and Senator John Hoeven of North Dakota members of our team met with the U.S.
Geological Survey to update them on the developments in the Bakken field and to discuss a possible reevaluation of the scope of the play.
As many of you may recall the USGS published a report in April 2008 that estimated that the Bakken petroleum system contained up to about 4.3 billion barrels of technically recoverable oil which we found reasonable at that time.
Their estimate was based on data available as of June 2007 and reported in April 2008.
Since June 2007 we've seen a complete technological revolution in the play up there with more than 2 000 additional producing wells completed.
Given the rapid growth of the Bakken field the vast amount of new data and the technology in drilling and completion up there we feel an updated estimate of the technically recoverable reserve for the Bakken field is warranted.
Based on our engineers' analysis we believe there are at least 24 billion barrels of oil equivalent technically recoverable from the Bakken field.
And we hope the USGS chooses to update their report again.
The tremendous advances in drilling and completion technology now allows us to routinely produce oil with economic rates from tight reservoir rocks that make up this resource play.
Speaking to you as a geologist now this is not a shale play.
We're not drilling the shale layers themselves.
We're actually drilling and producing from conventional reservoir rocks both in the middle Bakken and at Three Forks that have very low porosity and permeability and that have been charged from those adjacent Bakken shale layers.
What is unconventional is the technology required to extract the oil.
Through advanced horizontal drilling and fracture stimulation technology we are enhancing the natural fractures in these tight conventional reservoir rocks by packing them with sand under hydraulic pressure to obtain commercial flow rates of oil and natural gas.
This technology once considered to be unconventional has certainly become conventional not only in the Bakken Play but in resource plays throughout the United States.
Thus far the industry has drilled and completed about 4 000 horizontal wells in the Bakken and there are 170-plus rigs drilling more than 2 000 new wells in this field this year.
The Bakken Play has rapidly become a conventional play with increasingly predictable well results.
The entire scope of the Bakken all 15 000 square miles of it is now considered by the industry to be viable for development.
The Anadarko Woodford isn't as far along as the Bakken of course but frankly its repeatability is starting to feel very similar.
Drilling times are coming down well results are strong and the economics are solid even at today's natural gas prices because of the richness of the gas and liquids in it.
Especially with the recent increase in natural gas prices the economics are excellent.
Together Continental's acreage in the Bakken and the Oklahoma Woodford represent a multi-decade growth platform for our company.
We have the platform in hand for tripling our production in the proved reserves from year-end 2009 to year-end 2014 and for decades of rapid growth after that.
Our job today at the company is simply to execute the plan and deliver the results.
We're on track we're focused and we're excited for the rest of the year to keep performing at a high level.
As I said earlier I'll be pleased in the next few earnings calls to start on the same note.
No surprises it just keeps getting better and better.
I want to thank all the team members here at Continental who continue to drive the needle doubles [ph] both in and on the ice.
And thanks to all of you who have invested in us for your continued support.
So with that I'll turn over to our President Jeff Hume.
Thanks Harold.
Instead of my usual review of past quarter highlights I'd like to note this morning some of the changes and key themes that we expect to carry us through the remainder of the year.
We're on track with CapEx.
The first quarter's CapEx investment of $413 million was in line with our budget of $1.75 billion for the year.
Along with our growing EBITDAX we have plenty of liquidity to carry us into 2012.
We're running a total of 37 operated rigs with 24 in the Bakken and 10 in the Oklahoma Woodford.
In the Anadarko Woodford we've begun to phase in heavier rigs several at 2 500-horsepower to enable us to reduce drilling times and in preparation for drilling the longer 9 000-foot laterals under the new cross-unit spacing law passed by the Oklahoma legislature.
We're on track with our production growth as we said.
We have substantial backlog currently with 63 wells drilling or awaiting completion in the Bakken.
In just the next 2 weeks we expect to bring 13 new North Dakota Bakken wells online.
In the next 30 days we expect to bring 8 new Anadarko wells online.
Another important factor in the Bakken is the start-up of new gathering facilities that I mentioned on our fourth quarter call in February.
Hiland Partners plans to commence operations of its 30 million cubic feet per day plant on May 15.
On the crude oil side we are filling the pipes right now on a gathering system that will enable us to pipe oil directly out of the Norse prospect which will reduce transportation costs and free trucks to serve newly drilled wells.
Especially because of the timing of ECO-Pad projects we expect that our production growth trend through the remainder of 2011 will be lumpy.
We currently have 3 ECO-Pads that have been fracked and will come online within the next few weeks.
The rate of production growth will vary from month to month but we are on target and expect to achieve 2011 production growth in the range of 35% to 37% over 2010.
We do not plan to add more than a couple of additional drilling rigs by year end to get this accomplished.
We're about where we need to be including the distribution of rigs between the Bakken and the Oklahoma Woodford.
The key now is to regain some of the efficiencies lost during the period when we ramped from 12 operator rigs in January of 2010 to 37 rigs today.
We continue to see upward pressure on cost and our outside operators' wells are running at a somewhat higher rate than we had planned.
We are very focused on drilling and completion efficiencies continuing to improve our well results and completing the move to Oklahoma City in the next year or so with as little distraction as possible.
We're all very excited about the move and recruiting interest has significantly accelerated.
We started getting a much higher inflow of resumes submitted to us as soon as we made our announcement on March 21.
We're going to need a lot more professional firepower to accomplish our tripling goal by year-end 2014.
We have premier positions in 2 of the hottest plays in the United States the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford and that's where professional talent wants to be on the cutting-edge in the most exciting developing crude oil and liquids-rich gas plays.
With that let's start the Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Michael Bodino from Global Hunter Security.
LLC</strong> Just a couple quick questions on some of the operation.
I know in the Niobrara well you completed the horizontal and it was a cleaning up.
Are your plans there to get a flow test out of that well before you proceed on additional wells in that basin.
And then I do have a follow-up.
Michael we will have that information before we have the rig back in to continue drilling.
That rig will be here in mid-to-late June and we will run it through the end of the year is our current plan.
We are currently recovering load.
We're at the early stages of recovering load we're expecting the well to be cutting oil in the next week to 10 days based on what offset operations -- operators have done at this level.
So we should have a pretty good indication at this location.
And we do plan to bring that other rig in regardless of what we see here to continue drilling.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up and a little bit bigger macro picture could you walk us through the next several quarters in terms of your anticipated ramp-up and rig count by basin? Ramp-up in rigs? LLC</strong> Yes sir.
Basically we'll be holding the same -- pretty much the same rig count through the year.
We'll be bringing in a Niobrara rig as I just said in June.
We have a rig currently drilling in the Texas Panhandle on some Cleveland wells that will be finished up about that time.
So it will remain around 37.
In the late third quarter early fourth quarter we have plans right now to bring in a couple of more rigs in the Bakken and potentially be ramping up in the Anadarko Woodford.
And so for now it just looks like it's going to be pretty much a 37-rig program for the next 2 quarters.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Just a couple things.
I'm sorry if I missed this in the early commentary I think you said that in the press release that 2 of the 3 Montana wells you did around Elm Coulee were 320-acre infills.
Where was the third well? I think it's the Amestoy it's called.
The Amestoy well is -- actually it's on the northwest side of the edge of the field.
There were 3 that we announced here the Amestoy the Big Sky and the Clayton.
Big Sky and Amestoy both actually are on the north side of the Elm Coulee field.
And that's what's exciting about those wells is that they are on the fringe of the known producing field and are showing us that there is room to expand the field to the north on 166 000 net acres that we have undeveloped to the north.
The Clayton on the other hand is on the south side of the field where you're heading towards the Bakken pinch out but it was an infill on that edge.
And it came on for 1 100 barrels of oil a day and much better than the surrounding wells.
So it shows there's quite a bit of oil to be recovered down on that end with this newer technology than what had previously been recovered.
Okay.
Great.
And are we at the point now -- if you look at your remaining undeveloped locations and infill opportunities at Elm Coulee that we can start to think about a higher EUR going forward because of the new completions as opposed to sort of the historic number you used in Elm Coulee? No I think we're moving towards that.
We're not announcing that at this time but as Harold mentioned in his dialogue we are seeing improved results.
We're seeing production ahead of where we had it modeled.
We will be doing our midyear reserve forecast over the next couple of months.
And at the end of that as we've always done we'll review trailing results.
We like to have enough data on a curve to have a good solid performance forecast based on fact before we announce.
But everything's trending for a higher model.
And I believe at the next quarterly call we'll be announcing a higher model based on the results we're seeing at this time.
But today we're not changing our model.
We're sticking with our 518 average model across the play.
The good news is as Harold mentioned the performance west of the Anticline out in unproven areas is those wells are coming on very strong.
They're holding in there very nicely.
Our oldest well in there is only a few months old so by the end of the quarter we'll kind of see how those wells look and it will really help underpin that model.
As you are well aware we give a single model average model for the entire play and our acreage covers just about the entire Bakken play.
So it's a good model for the entire resource and that's what we'll be looking at.
But I do believe it will be increasing from what we're seeing today.
I just cannot quantify it at this time.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman from Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> First question congratulations on getting the legislature to pass the cross-unit spacing I know that's something you all have been working on pretty hard for a couple of years.
I'm curious on how sort of your completion technique and design is going to change once you go to the 1280s there in terms of number of frac stages you think you'll plan what the well costs are going to look like with the 1280 versus what you all have been doing? Well the 1280 we're going to be -- our costs are going to be running about as compared to 2 wells it's going to be running about $3 million less than at 2 wells we're planning to have.
Our reserves will double.
We're currently at today's market price for gas we're seeing around a 34% internal rate of return on our current drilling that we're doing.
That should kick it up to around a 48% to 50% internal rate of return on that type of drilling.
So we're excited to get started with that work.
We have several applications in and they're just pending.
The Corporation Commission of Oklahoma is setting rules at this time and once those rules are set application permits will be awarded.
And we feel like we could be possibly drilling our first cross-unit well by mid- to late-third quarter and rolling with that.
Another thing I'll point out John as we mentioned last quarter we've got 2 large 3D shoot spreads going at this time one in the Northwest Cana over 300 square miles another in the Southeast Cana.
So we have close to 500 square miles of 3D that we're -- have joint shoots going with other companies.
40% is finished in that Northwest Cana so we're getting good information on where to place these cross-unit wells.
The timing couldn't be more perfect for this law to come into fruition and give us the ability to improve our results.
So I think by the fourth quarter we'll be seeing hopefully some early results on that work.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Just one more question for me.
On Red River I had anticipated that that was going to start to just continually decline after reaching its peak level over 15 000 barrels a day in the second quarter of last year.
And it seems like after it declined for a couple of quarters we've now had a couple of quarters of sort of steady growth.
I'm just curious what your outlook is for the remainder of the year for Red River.
We feel like we're going to be able to hold that flat.
What we're doing John in the older areas the Medicine Pole hills and the Buffalo we have increased our air injection capacity.
We've moved in some machines that we had in Cedar Hills as we converted it to water flood with a tighter well density.
We redeployed that machinery and we're going to be seeing results from increased injection in those areas.
We're also seeing very good results on the water flood patterns in North Dakota.
We did a review those early -- the earliest water flood patterns which you would expect to start the early decline and give you an indication are still on a nice level field.
We're seeing the water cut come up as it should but we're not seeing -- we're seeing an overall production increase so very good response.
We feel like we'll be able to carry this production level through this year and into 2012 when we start seeing a decline on Cedar Hill.
So very very good news.
It's much better than we thought.
[Operator Instructions] And gentlemen I take that we have no more questions at this time.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate everybody joining the call today.
And as we go forward if you have any questions please give each one of us a call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation.
That concludes today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today's call will include projections assumptions and guidance that are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this morning's call and then we'll be able to have a question-and-answer period.
Other members of management are available to answer your questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for joining us on our conference call this morning.
Continental reported outstanding performance under challenging circumstances for the second quarter of 2011.
We generated solid production growth and we're on track to achieve our goals for the year.
This all is made possible by the talent and commitment by the Continental team to overcome adverse weather challenges up there in that area even under very tough conditions this winter.
Our second quarter production grew 29% to 53 984 Boepd.
We continued the growth momentum that we began in 2010 and the first quarter of 2011.
We estimate that July production was 61 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And during this last week we estimate 62 000 Boepd.
So the third quarter is looking very strong.
Net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $239.2 million or $1.33 per diluted share an increase of 135% over net income for the second quarter of 2010.
This reflected an after-tax unrealized gain on mark-to-market derivative instruments of $143.4 million and an after-tax $11.9 million property impairment charge.
Without the combined effects of the non-cash unrealized derivatives gain an impairment charge and a small gain on sale of assets our clean earnings were $0.60 per diluted share.
We reported EBITDAX of $285.6 million for the second quarter a 31% increase over EBITDAX for the second quarter of 2010.
Strong cash flow and ample availability under our revolving credit facility have us positioned very well for continued growth.
At this point I'd like to drill down with more detail on the Bakken.
You've seen over the past year consistent improvement in our well results in the Bakken and this trend continues today as we demonstrated in the last night's press conference.
Based on press release -- based on historical results we raised our estimated ultimate recovery model to 603 000 barrels oil equivalent per well in North Dakota compared with the previous EUR model of 518 000 Boe.
The key factors contributing to the 16% increase are advances in well completion technology including additional frac stages and profit use which have continued to elevate the production curves on our wells.
Secondly as we explore and de-risked new areas of our acreage we're seeing the quality of that acreage in our well results.
Geology of course plays a huge role here.
Our 518 000 Boe EUR model was based on a group of wells with an average of just over 20 stages per well.
The new model is based on an average of just over 24 stages per well.
Today our standard design is 30 stages and basically that's a minimum amount of stages that we're using.
Bakken well results continue to improve in the second quarter.
We completed 34 gross 18.2 net wells as operator in the quarter and their average initial test period production was 1 188 Boepd.
As we noted our top 12 North Dakota operated wells in the quarter ranged from 1 400 to 2 240 Boepd in their initial test periods.
These are our great great wells.
Some of our strongest results in the quarter involved a 4-well Carson Peak-Morris ECO-Pad project.
The 2 Carson Peak wells produced at almost to 2 240 Boepd each in their initial test periods.
And the 2 Morris wells in this ECO-Pad project one tested at 1 917 Boepd and the other yielded 1 400 Boepd also a very good well.
So not only are we saving 10% per well on average on our ECO-Pad projects we're also seeing outstanding production results with these ECO-Pad wells.
This was continued in the current quarter.
In late July we completed the Debrecen 1-3H with a 39% working interest well in Stark County.
The Debrecen 1-3H tested in early production at 1 667 Boepd flowing at 2 052 psi on a 24/64 choke and qualifying it as Continental's strongest well to date in the Normandy prospect area.
The company has 103 000 net acres in Normandy which covers part of Billings Dunn and McKenzie and Stark counties.
Most of our Normandy drilling was back in the early -- very early days in North Dakota some 67 years ago and now it's seems like we're just getting started.
Early results were not impressive in Normandy so we're very pleased to see an excellent result in new wells using today's advanced technology and developing down into Three Forks instead of the thin Middle Bakken formation that's present there.
Now let's look at Oklahoma Woodford operations.
In the second quarter we completed the Lambakis 1-11H discovery well in the Southeast Cana portion of the Anadarko Woodford.
We own a 98% company working interest in Lambakis which flowed 5.4 million cubic feet per day and 160 barrels oil per day in its initial test period.
The Lambakis is 25 miles south of previously known horizontal Woodford production.
So Continental had once again expand the scope of the Anadarko Woodford play in the other direction.
We own 15 000 net acres around this well and about 90 000 net acres total in the Southeast Cana area.
These 2 new discovery wells the Debrecen in Bakken's Normandy area and the Lambakis in Southeast Cana are very important good news for the company in terms of the job at each play.
And Jack Stark is here with me this morning to discuss this in more detail if we need it in the Q&amp;A period.
So let's move on to our major reserves.
In the first half of 2011 we increased proved reserves 15% to 421 million Boe.
I might add this is based on our internal valuation.
Continental's midyear report was prepared by some 12-month unweighted average price of $90.09 per barrel of oil and $4.21 per Mcf for natural gas and further adjusted for location differentials.
Continental is clearly building net asset value as part of our 5-year plan to triple production and reserves.
Not only are we building proved reserves we're accomplishing this in 2 of the hottest [indiscernible] plays in the United States oil-rich Bakken and liquids-rich gas Anadarko Woodford where we have decades of developmental drilling ahead of us.
By the way we continue to expand our land positions in the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford.
Given a combination of industry factors we are finding opportunities for strategic lease acquisition swaps and exchanges to obtain operational control as well as conventional leasing opportunities.
We expect these lease hold opportunities to continue.
I'd like to note one other important announcement for several reasons that we've listed in the release last night we have increased our 2011 capital expenditure budget to $2 billion with 86% of incremental spending focused on drilling and related operations and the rest allocated to lease acquisition.
We also raised our production growth guidance for the year to a range of 36% to 39%.
This will enable us to increase our total operated rigs in the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford this year.
Obviously it helps us a little with 2011 production growth but the primary impact will be on production growth in early 2012 and beyond.
Our strong growth this year has us firmly on track to achieve the goals in 5-year plan list established last October.
The goal was to triple our production improve reserves from year-end 2009 to year-end 2014.
So to sum up we'll continue to keep Continental on a high growth profile and we're even accelerating that just a bit through the next 6 months.
But before starting our question-and-answer period I'd like to address accidents that occurred in last July -- in late July on the Beaver Creek 1-36H well in North Dakota.
Three men were injured and a rig was partially destroyed.
I've been in business 44 years and it's the first time that we've had an accident like this on the CLR operated well side.
There's a positive report on the 3 men's medical progress Tuesday in Bismarck Tribune but please join us in keeping their full recovery in your thoughts and prayers.
And with that now we're ready for the Q&amp;A period.
[Operator Instructions] We do have our first question and it comes from the line of Marshall Carver.
Inc.</strong> On the EUR rates is that -- I assume that's just Bakken wells.
Is there any read through to the Three Forks wells in North Dakota on that EUR increase? That increase is a mix of our average of both Three Forks and Middle Bakken wells.
We take the entire population of wells and that's looking in arrears across our acreage spread in North Dakota.
So that's an average of all completions.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But how many of the completions in the last year were Three Forks versus Bakken? We're probably running in the 50% range.
We drill about half our wells in the Three Forks and half in the Middle Bakken.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Another question.
On the -- you've had a quick production ramp up from 2Q to July.
About how much of that is due to new wells coming on line versus -- did you have some production that was shut in that then came online or is that new wells in the July increase? We're going to say the lion's share of those were new wells.
We did have some wells that had been shut in or had been constrained.
And the other thing you're starting to see there is the fact that we have had some infrastructure build out especially on the gas side that allowed us to open some wells up.
Inc.</strong> Do you have a feel for 1 000 barrels a day that was shut in and has come back or not? Although it was actually shut in we were not able to move the oil.
It was probably in the 1 000 barrels a day range.
Inc.</strong> Okay then one last question for me.
On the Niobrara well do you have the cost on that and could you give a rate or do you not want to give rates on that? Yes the total cost on Niobrara well was $6.5 million and the well is currently in the 10 barrels of oil a day range and some water being associated with it.
So that's why we're evaluating it.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Young.
Just following up on the last one of your answers.
So when you guide infrastructure that lets you open the wells up is that part of the reasons for why the IP rates that you listed were a little higher than -- on average than in the previous quarter? No IP are wells are the same everywhere whether we have a gas connection or not and that's -- we're not just pulling the wells real hard.
If we look -- drill down and looked at those most of those wells are drilling or producing initially between 2 500 and upwards of 3 500 psi pressure.
So we're holding quite a bit back on those.
If we really crank those open and brought all the extra equipment you'd require to safely flow those at higher rates they could go.
But what we try to do is maintain a safe rate for our production equipment that we will be producing through without bringing extra equipment out and flowing those wells.
So we're just seeing good consistent results across the field and improving over the quarters.
I think part of that is just the frac technology we're applying.
As Harold said we're putting more stages on the well and we're -- this past quarter we probably averaged 25 26 stages and now we're kicking that up to 30 stage average per well.
We're going to do all of our wells a minimum of 30 stage.
We feel that's really giving an improvement opening this tight rock up.
If you could flow those wells a little bit more openly how much -- and I'm not sure what the right number would be.
But if you let them flow a little bit less constrained could you get up to -- could you both produce IP rates 2 500 to 3 000 barrels a day or is that too high? No you could easily do that if you open these wells up.
As I said we're between 2 500 and 3 500 pounds flowing pressure on most of these wells when they're flowing initially.
I mean they just have very high flow rates and we just don't feel it's to anyone's interest to just pull them that hard at the beginning.
And there is some safety issues because you have a tremendous amount of fluid going into temporary equipment.
For the EUR guidance did you -- you gave a single point number of 600 000 barrels of oil.
But can you give us some maybe colors if you took fixed smaller field size regions what the ranges of the different regions would look like in terms of individual EURs for those regions? Just to give us some idea of the distribution of regional performance? Well there is a variation and there's variation within a region itself.
So if took a geographic region and broke it down it's easy to see wells within a couple of miles from one another having a variation of 100 000 barrels.
So that's why we look across the board and give 1 model and that's what we will deliver.
And that may be why we have a maybe a slightly lower model than others because they have only 1 area that they're producing and they just report that area.
But across the entire play in Continental I'll remind you has acreage across the entire play.
North to South East to West that's our average.
So that's pretty much a reflection of what the Bakken capacity is and our acreage capacity is.
All right then.
Okay so 2 points.
One is that 600 000 is applicable to your entire 600 000-acre North Dakota Bakken? That is correct.
Okay.
For the second point I was just trying to get a sense of how much variation is there.
Are we talking about the standard deviation of field type EURs? Is it plus or minus 100 000 from that 600 000 or it's a plus or minus 200 000 from the 600 000? I'd say you'd have a 200 000 variation plus or minus.
Okay.
And then the last question about that is just the 600 000 based on the -- I'm sorry I didn't quite understand what you're saying.
Is it based on the 24 stages or the 30 stages of frac? It was based on the mix of wells that was in the model.
And looking back I think that's probably going to be around 24.5 to 25 stages average on that.
So there could be some upside if you average in 30 stages? Absolutely that's our plan.
But we always report trailing factual EURs not what we hope to have.
Your next question comes from the line of David [ph].
Jeff just wanted to confirm.
The $8 million well costs that's heading forward and you're still thinking 40% ceramic 60% sand for your Bakken North Dakota wells? That is correct.
That's what we're doing and that changed.
We were running around $7.8 million for the 30-stage job and we've just seen inflation walk that up to there and we feel like that's a solid number for the remaining year.
Okay.
And then as you think about the total company one of the things as you've increased your capital spending trying to think about what is the base decline for the company first year and second year and then kind of a dollar per flowing barrel of capital adds.
So can you talk about what is your base decline on low capital if you got year 1 year 2 in your PDP base? I have not looked at that.
I need to look at that to give you an honest answer.
Quite frankly I have not looked at the PDP runoff on that but I can sure get that for you.
And do you think about -- you talked about 2012 production being driven more by the $2 billion of CapEx.
Just reconciling originally you had about a $1.4 billion budget for 30% growth this year.
Now you had a $2 billion budget for the call it 37% growth.
How do you think about that differential between lot more capital but not that much more growth? And then how should that roll into '12 or an exit rate? Our original -- our budget was $1.75 billion for the 35% to 37% growth.
Okay 30% growth was $1.36 billion originally.
That's correct back in October of...
Right.
Okay.
The entire thing is right now we're raising our capital for the second half of the year.
And part of that's going to be a carryout going into the next year.
We're bringing more rigs in and as Harold said in the Woodford we'll be bringing rigs in in the first quarter in the Bakken and improving that.
That means I'm preparing locations this fall for locations -- for drilling in the Bakken next spring and our entire net carry in carryout is ramped up to probably in the $175 million range.
So we're going to be carrying some -- doing some work in the fourth quarter -- third and fourth quarter that would be carried into next year.
So it's growing.
Our operational footprint if you will for even -- for very strong results in 2012 which we have not announced yet but most people are modeling growth in both the Bakken and the Woodford as we move forward.
And with that carry in does that imply just kind of a run rate of capital spending then at about this level? You're not going to see a drop in 2012 because you've accelerated $175 million of CapEx.
So just continue to roll forward the program it's not like you built the pads and now you're not going to build new pads or anything like that? No we're going to have an ever-increasing rig count as long as we have a solid commodity market.
We're going to continue to do that.
We have a world class inventory of opportunity and we'll continue to accelerate on that within guidelines of ability to execute the plan and cash flow.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Wilmoth.
You guys mentioned in the press release about the potential of deeper Three Forks zone below your existing Three Forks zone and taking 5 cores.
Can you talk about what you've seen in those cores and how dispersed are those cores across the play? Scott this deeper tense is called the Charlotte 2-22H and is located west of the Nesson Anticline out in sections 22 and 15 of 152 North 99 West.
And the Charlotte is drilling ahead right now.
And we're targeting a layer of oil bearing dolomite that is found about 50 feet below our traditional target in the top of the Three Forks.
And what's significant about this obviously is that it can -- has a potential to demonstrate there's added reserves to be recovered from these deeper zones in the Three Forks.
To date really all of our drilling has been confined into the upper 20 feet to 30 feet of the Three Forks formation.
And from our regional studies we know that the Three Forks gets up to about 270-foot thick.
So that begs the question how deep does the oil saturation halo from the Bakken extend down into the Three Forks.
So to find out we went ahead and cored the Three Forks from top to bottom in 5 wells this year.
And these cores extended to -- from basically north to south about 115 miles from Divide County on the north end and Stark County on the south end.
And what we found is really quite remarkable.
We found that the Three Forks contains 4 benches of inter-bedded oil-saturated dolomites that extend all the way down to the underlying miscue anhydrides in each of these cores.
And I really need to be clear here.
I'm not saying that the whole Three Forks section was oil saturated for instance in the Charlotte core that we took right where we're drilling our test now.
The Three Forks was 220-foot thick and contains approximately 115 feet of oil-bearing dolomites: 30 feet in the first bench 22 in the second bench 30 feet in the third bench and 32 feet of oil-saturated dolomite in the fourth bench.
So these benches from our studies vary across -- they vary in thickness across the basin.
But just for the sake of this discussion here say they average in the range of about 50-foot thick.
And the first bench historically has been our target of drilling out here and it's proven to be very uniform and quite widespread.
The second bench from our studies looks to be equally uniform and widespread in its development and so that's part of the reason that one is our first test that we want to take in a lower bench.
The second bench lies about 40 feet to 50 feet below the first bench and it's underlined by our third and fourth bench.
And those benches are not as uniformly developed but do contain large amounts of oil-saturated dolomites.
So our Charlotte test is testing the second bench which contained about 22 feet of oil-saturated core.
And really in the end what all this really means is that there's more oil in place in the Three Forks than we had previously perceived and this has got to translate into increased recoverable reserves for this field in the future.
And just following up.
If the second bench is successful that is not going to -- that could be additional locations.
It's not -- you wouldn't hit both the first and second bench with one well? That's our expectation at this point.
It needs to be drilled to be proven.
But we will probably also -- you'll see us in the future going and testing these lower benches the third and the fourth where we feel that they are most prospective.
Okay.
And what's the timing on the Charlotte well ongoing? And is there any additional cost aside from just slightly lower depth on these wells versus traditional wells? No there's no difference in cost here.
We didn't take a core and this one we'd already cored in the Charlotte #1 well.
And as far as timing it's drilling.
We're probably at kick off point here today and we'll be cutting into the zone here probably within the week and have it [ph] here with Rick in a couple of weeks.
Your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks.
Just a few questions.
I wasn't sure whether to make anything of sort of the BTU variability in the Southeast Cana.
I noticed that the pricing that you seem to realize I think in the most recent period in the Lambakis well seems to be a little lower than the liquids prices or I should say it like it's on equivalent basis that you've got in terms of some of the earlier wells.
Can you tell me little bit about that? I think that's just -- what we're seeing there Noel is just the different gas contract -- that was a realized price on that contract which was to an existing gas market.
As we begin drilling down there we'll negotiate and we'll contract for that area.
The entire Southeast Cana area because we're just drilling spot wells and they are 25 miles apart.
Obviously we don't have one blanket contract over there so we're marketing into existing infrastructure.
So you're going to see some variation on cost.
Back to the BTU we're seeing consistently high BTU in that area and high liquids.
So I think that was our point with the $3 and I think $3.90 [ph] price where we're seeing over 650 into that market that we went into.
I think we're going to have a good uplift in value especially as we begin a drilling program down there.
We've got -- we feel we're drilling another well right now in that area as we get a second well in there we'll consider that area de-risk and go into full development.
At that time we'll negotiate a contract that is more favorable to the working interest owners.
But until you get that program started you're pretty much tied to the existing infrastructure and what contracts are in that area at the time.
Great that's helpful.
Thinking about infrastructure if I remember right you -- I'm sorry if you mentioned this earlier I've been popping on and off a bit.
Remember there is new infrastructure coming on in the Northwest Cana area.
But I was wondering for the wells that you reported in the quarter how pipeline constrained were the well rates that you gave in the Northwest? Well on certain wells we have probably a 30% to 50% constraint on deliverability early days production the first 6 months production just due to infrastructure.
We have entered into a contract for that area and new infrastructure.
The company we entered with has released a buildup of infrastructure out there.
Obviously it will take some time to get that in.
I'm estimating 6 months to a year to get that fully in place where we have higher rates.
And not every well is restricted but Rick I'd say what? Half the wells we're seeing restrictions on that half the wells we're seeing restrictions just due to local infrastructure cannot take the high rates.
Okay.
I mean so then firstly those most recent batch of wells it is fair to consider that the IP might look more like 30% to 50% higher you think? I think you can easily be 25% to 30% higher on those -- on that batch if we had adequate infrastructure.
Having that and pulling them that hard as we could obviously -- if we had the larger infrastructure pull them that hard and whether we'd like to or not there'd be something else we could argue about also.
Absolutely.
And just one more question in the Cana.
In the press release you mentioned in the Lambakis well I guess was landed in the salacious zone...
That is correct.
The upper portion of it is very thick in that area and we're very excited about that area of the Southeast Cana.
We're seeing very thick section of salacious and we're in the upper portion of that salacious member.
That was exactly what I was wondering.
I thought I remembered though that maybe some folks earlier in the play had been focusing on the lower because it seemed like it was thicker than the upper.
And I remember you were more interested in the upper.
But is it just in that far south part of the play that you're seeing a real good thickness of the upper and what sort of thickness are we talking about? What we're seeing is -- you're seeing a depositional wedge of salacious material being deposited that thickens as you go into the basin.
And down in the Southeast Cana area you see a nice thick wedge developed coming off of what was the shelf at that time.
And in this Southeast Cana area in the Lambakis area in particular we're 250-foot thick of Woodford there and it is very salacious.
In fact the upper part is almost 100% salacious upper half I guess I should say.
And the lower half looks like it's at least 50% salacious.
And so we've drilled our first well starting out on the lower part of the upper half okay of the upper bench and drilled up through oh probably halfway up through that salacious member and completed the well.
So we've tested the upper bench here and had very good results.
Because this is so thick we believe there's potential to actually need an additional well down on that lower bench to be able to harvest that rock given how thick the 2 benches are.
So overall we're very excited about the outcome here.
It's right in line with what we're hoping to see and to extend this trend another 25 miles to the south proves up another 15 000 acres that we control right around the Lambakis well there that just really bodes well for our 90 000 acres we have down in the Southeast Cana project.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra.
Inc.</strong> First Cana Bakken and the incremental CapEx.
If it's in the press release I missed it.
What is the split between Cana Bakken? And then also can you talk about reserve adds through midyear the split between Cana Bakken? Subash this is Jack.
Out of the budget here we've got about $214 million the additional dollars allocated towards drilling out of the 250.
And of that about $122 million of that is allocated to the Anadarko Woodford.
And that's going to translate to maybe 3 to 4 net wells here this year maybe 5 in the year incremental.
But because we're starting here kind of late in the year a lot of these costs are really going to be associated with wells that are completed next year.
So a lot of these costs although it'll seem disproportionate just because these wells are being [ph] next year.
And that represents 4 rigs that we have coming.
One of the operators out there that had 4 rigs they had available they wanted to take a break on some things they were doing out in the basin.
And so we ended up picking up 2 of those rigs and we have 2 more coming here in August.
And so we put those to work to a more -- accelerate the development of our play.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then on the reserve adds? Run that question by me again Subash.
Inc.</strong> Yes.
The reserve additions through year end to midyear what the split was between the Cana and the Bakken? I do not have a breakout in front of me on that.
Let me see if we have.
Hold on.
Here we go.
We've got -- Subash I'm going to get back with you.
I don't have a detail on area in front of me.
I have an overall summary.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
It seem like the additions got gas here.
So on the surface it looked like most of the reserve adds were Cana related.
I just wanted to confirm that or not.
But I'll follow up off-line.
How do you feel about North Richland area after these next pair of wells and do you think we're closer to putting that in the delineated category? Subash we've -- on the western end of that north Elm Coulee the extension of Richland County up between Red River and Elm Coulee the western half of that acreage block we're moving that into a de-risked category.
We feel like we can consistently make a 430 000 Mboe well or better in that area.
So we're ramping our work up in that area.
One of our plans over the next 2 years is to bring in additional rigs in that area and start accelerating that.
The multistage technology has really unlocked that.
Back to the eastern side of that we've had a mix of wells.
We've got couple of wells on the far east end that have done rather well and a couple of wells that have had higher water cuts.
So we feel like there maybe a shear running through there that's affected some of that.
We don't know if that's localized or aerial.
So at this time the west -- the eastern side of that north of Elm Coulee we're putting that as not de-risked yet although we're very optimistic that will -- a good portion of it will be de-risked.
Inc.</strong> Could you put a number on how big the western side is? Is the western half isn't really half of that acreage? What I would say is right now we could probably say in the range about 40 000 acres of really what we consider to be substantially de-risked from the drilling we've done so far.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Any update on the -- in the shallow area? Shallow area? Well that's where were -- we had the Beaver Creek drilling.
And clearly we have very good indications of hydrocarbons there.
And so at this point here with the loss of the rig we are in the process of getting another rig and we'll be moving back in that area.
Inc.</strong> Okay so that's where it's happening.
You didn't lose a frac crew with that? We were finishing the drilling operation.
We've just run the liner so we still have that well to complete yet.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And then finally I guess the -- when you look at the Lambakis any of your cost difference between that and your generic Woodford program? It's slightly deeper.
We were probably at 15 000-foot crew vertical depth there Subash.
And that high salacious rock drilled slightly slower.
So we're probably in $0.5 million to $1 million higher than the average right in there.
Running the economics out on that we're looking into 60% to 65% internal rate of return on that type of well.
Inc.</strong> Is that a sort of $8.5 million well somewhere there? Yes.
I'd say $8.5 million in that range down there.
It varies where we're at on depth.
That particular well was at 15 000 feet.
As we move into other parts of the Southeast Cana it will not be that the deep.
That's just that particular well.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And where does your Cana rig count peak out at? Well I don't know.
Right now we're at 13 in the Cana and have 2 additional coming in.
So we'll be at 15 here in about 30 to 45 days and hold that through the end of the year.
And we'll see what our plans are for next year if we accelerate that or maintain or whatever.
But we're seeing good results across the play and we're excited about it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler.
Inc.</strong> Just curious in the Anadarko Woodford still.
Last time we talked Jeff you're talking about maybe being able to petition the state for some longer lateral drilling because obviously I guess the vertical portion is what takes so long.
Where do you guys stand on that? We will have our first hearing.
We had it scheduled and there was a protest by another operator that is now been removed.
So we'll have that hearing in a couple of weeks I believe and then we're prepared to drill the well.
So I think everything is in place now other than going through having the hearing getting the order and having authority to drill that.
Most of the protest was just people wanting well information which is part of the drill in Oklahoma Corporation Commission activity.
So we feel very confident we'll be on that well within probably inside of 60 days the location is constructed and it's just a matter of scheduling the rig there once we get the permit.
So we don't see any roadblocks at this time of having the hearing and we feel optimistic that we'll be granted a permit to drill and go.
So we're anxious to get out and demonstrate that we can drill a longer lateral at lower cost and improve economics for this play and I think it's going to be a game changer for the Anadarko Woodford and for Western Oklahoma development.
Inc.</strong> Great and sorry if I missed it.
But are the costs of running just south of $8 million or so around in that area and you still think you could probably save a couple of million on each well as you go horizontal? Yes we think we can save around the -- on a 640 basis taking it back to 640 we think that we can save $1.5 million to $2 million per well or $3 million to $4 million on a 1 280.
But we need to get out and prove that.
Our design plans right now is we can drill that well for $12.5 million to $13 million versus 2 wells at $8 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng.
This is Hsulin from Robert Baird.
Just a clarification question.
In Montana are you keeping your EUR model there at 430 Mboe? If so what is the potential based on the results you have seen so far what is the potential for revising that EUR upwards? Well we think that's on extension area the Montana on the increased density or the wells that we're drilling within unit of PUD wells within Elm Coulee itself we're looking at around 480 000 barrel model and it's looking good.
But that area to the north we've only drilled 4 or 5 wells.
Right now as we've seen in other areas as we drill and complete we always increase reserves.
So I feel like as we get the rigs working more on a steady basis in the area north of Elm Coulee we will increase the reserves for that areas as we continue to tweak how we frac the wells to how we complete them and how we place the lateral.
So right now we feel very confident that delivering a 430 model and that is at a lower cost over there.
We're looking at just a little over $7 million for those wells shallower and the frac gradient is not as high so your cost of -- for hydraulic horsepower is not as great.
And we're also able to use sleeve technology in that area because of the little frac grade and we have a higher confidence of executing the sleeves versus the perf and plug in getting the sand away.
So I think we've got a very good opportunity to improve our economics in that area.
So we are excited about that area right now.
Great.
And then my second question is more higher level question.
Do you think you're outside your goal to triple reserves and production by 2014? And I'm assuming that was predicated on the older EUR model and making them less CapEx.
And I was wondering I mean am I reading it right if I -- just given the higher EUR model and more CapEx is there a potential for you to exceed that triple production and reserve goal by 2014 based on your current run rate? Yes Hsulin we have done modeling and unconstrained we could be quite above the 3x.
Right now we're staying with that model because it's -- we're trying to reinvest cash flow and grow it on cash flow as best as we can and keep within our metrics.
But we have inventory where we can far exceed that growth rate.
And that's what I want to reiterate.
We do have an extremely strong inventory of opportunity and depending on cash flow and commodity market and stability of the commodities and the government taxation and how they're treating us we're going to be able to grow this company at a 3x rates or above for quite a number of years.
Your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver.
Inc.</strong> Just a couple of follow-up questions.
Have you done much down spacing work recently? I know you talked about that in prior conference calls but wanted to know was there any downsizing done over the last quarter in the Bakken? And what were your assumptions with those 600 000-barrel wells? I guess some of those were probably -- guess that was just the average of the prior wells but what are your thoughts on down spacing in the play? Marshall we've done several locations where we have 2 1 280s next to one another where we've drilled against the lease line and effectively have 2 wells at a 320-acre space position.
But for the most part we're drilling 1 well and in a few instances 2 wells in a 1 280.
The bulk of our fleets drilling the first well in a 1 280 we're going to maintaining 15 to 18 of the rigs doing that for the next year or 2.
We do have a project going right now of testing a 320-acre space unit in our AMI area of galaxy that's being executed by ConocoPhillips.
That's an area where they operate.
We're 50-50 partner in that area.
We're executing that this summer.
We'll have those wells drilled and be producing that.
So that's taking down to where on a 1 280 basis we're 1 320 foot between wellbores.
And we'll have 4 or 5 wells paired -- developed in that area where we can watch that.
The plans are probably to work through or for the most part work the rigs through to get our acreage HBP and then we'll come back and the fleet will be slowly growing to more ECO-Pad type drilling.
We have 4 maybe 5 rigs now capable -- 5 capable of drilling ECO-Pads.
We have 3 or 4 at any one time drilling ECO-Pads.
And I think we'll be looking at possibly -- the possibility of taking that fleet of ECO-Pad rigs of doing more of this down space testing over the next year.
So that's probably where they'll be.
So we'll get more on a manufacturing mode if you will going across the acreage in late 2012 '13 and beyond where we can convert the bulk of the fleet.
And as we grow the fleet build a more ECO-Pad type development where we get the cost down and price up.
But our first step is going on right now with a true 4 to 5 wells 1 320 foot inter-well spacing.
And probably next springtime we have information on really what's the interference is there any interference between those.
We feel very little.
I'll remind you though if you look back to Elm Coulee where we have higher permeability we're effectively drilling that 1 320 foot inter-well spacing and having excellent results.
Right now we're seeing well over 480 000-barrel EURs on average well on our PUDs in Elm Coulee.
So we're highly optimistic we'll see very strong results in North Dakota over all of the play.
And particularly in this galaxy area we feel like it's one area that will certainly bode well with 320-acre development.
This project that we're doing up there jointly with ConocoPhillips is called Midnight Run.
So you'll hear more about Midnight Run as we go forward.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Another question.
With the Devon plant downtime is there any specific impact to you guys at Cana? Should we model that in the third quarter? No there's none to us.
We're not going to that plant and the company that we signed up with has multiple plant.
[Audio Gap] Inc.</strong> Rig counts assuming commodity prices hold up at these levels.
How do you think about free cash flow and your balance sheet? I know your rates on equity earlier this year to accelerate drilling but is there a certain debt level is it debt to EBITDA that you look at or debt to cap or how do you think about the debt of the balance sheet? A couple of points there related to the commodity prices.
Obviously we have actively hedged over the last year and a half.
We did that in contemplation of the asset we have and our plans to develop it over the next few years.
So we're hedged in at plus or minus $90 on crude oil for the next 3 years on the large percentage of our production are forecasted production.
So quite a bit of strong stable hedges in place that will give us a floor on the commodity prices.
Always moved around a lot.
You've seen volatility in our earnings from a mark-to-market perspective.
But from a cash flow perspective that provides us a great deal of stability and flexibility as we go forward.
With the quality of the asset we have the improving results that we're seeing in the asset coupled with those commodity hedges that we have in place and our -- the high margins that we put off on our production that gives us a lot of cash flow that is ever increasing as we're continuing to roll out rigs.
So they're going up in line with our increases in rig activity and continue to fund that operation.
Related to the metrics we believe in maintaining a strong stable balance sheet with strong metrics.
That gives us a great deal of flexibility it puts us in an advantageous position relative to peers and we intend to continue that.
So right now if you look at debt to EBITDAX trailing 12-month of EBITDAX we're less than 1.
We are around I think 0.92 0.93.
That's an incredibly strong metric in the E&amp;P sector.
So we've got flexibility.
If that were to go up a bit we're still relatively strong.
But we've been in that 0.75 to 1.25 1.5 range for quite some time and that's a very advantageous position.
We intend to preserve that.
Adding to that we obviously announced -- we recently reconfirmed our borrowing base and that is as of June 30 the borrowing base was $2 billion with 0 drawn on that revolver and $261 million of cash on the balance sheet.
So again strong stable steady financial metrics.
Your next question comes from the line of Phil Young [ph].
Just a quick follow-up question.
Regarding the couple of rigs that you got from the other operator I guess you're going to keep them for about 6 months.
Is there any chance that you'd keep them longer than 6 months? That's sort of one part of the question.
And the second part is: do those rigs cost -- come at a lower cost than your existing fleet or is it basically the same? No it comes -- these rigs are the new modern rigs so they earn slightly higher than our fleet.
We took them on at their face value.
Right now our arrangement is to hold them for about a 6-month period and turn them back to the other operator.
We could possibly bring other rigs in to take their place and to continue to grow our position out there.
But at this time the plan is on those specific rigs they will go back to the original operator that they are contracted under.
We just took them for a window.
But we will be with our acreage position more than likely growing our rig fleet.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner.
You talked about your results on the Bakken wells completed with highway fracs? Well we've done 2 of those fracs at this time.
And our agreement with Schlumberger is we will not talk about the results of that until we get a group of those finished and have statistical number where it has meaning.
What I can tell you is both the fracs we've executed have gone off flawlessly placed everything in place and everything is looking good.
We do have plans to do several more of those and look at the results.
And at that time we'll report that.
But today nothing really to report on individual well.
Can you speak to the difference in cost versus a normal completion? I don't know it's probably 5% higher.
You're running more of the fiber gel in there but I really haven't looked at the bottom line cost myself.
So I wouldn't think it'd be much over 4% or 5% difference.
Okay.
Do you have any plans to test the highway fracs in Cana or have you tested that in the past? No we don't have any plans for that.
Cana is a little different type frac design.
We're doing fairly high volume water frac there higher rates and so I just don't think it's applicable to Cana at this time.
Okay.
And then can you just talk about your results in Cleveland and your exposure out there? Cleveland we've had excellent results in the Cleveland.
Our exposure we have acreage there Jack? Yes we've got about 11 net wells to drill out there on our lease hold.
If you assume I think 320-acre spacing in there.
So at this point it's not a big position I think it's about 4 000 acres.
I think that's right.
But it is very nice economics there economics are great.
We're looking at 70% rate return type economics out there -- good oil and good gas.
And the wells seem to be drilled fairly fairly nicely for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul [ph].
Could you guys go in and discuss on the EUR revision any assumptions you had on IP rates decline rates and well life on that? I think the IP on those were in the first 30 days and the 650-barrel a day range about 1 000:1 EUR starting out over the life.
That EUR will climb at around 2 001 initial instantaneous decline.
We've -- the models start out on a monthly rate and not a daily.
So that 650 you're probably looking in the mid to high 90% initial decline with a 1.5B factor.
And I believe we have 6% or 7% minimum decline 50-year life truncated at that period.
Thank you.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I'd now like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Hamm.
Yes.
And to sum up this conference call first of all my hat's off to all of our northern district team who used a great deal of ingenuity when conditions became very rough up there.
Moving the rigs around across our extensive development areas up there the Red River in South Dakota Montana North Dakota of course and the Bakken.
When roads become problematic as we move in South River and kept working.
The second thing is longer summer days dry days are with us up there now.
We do have a backlog of completions over couple of dozen wells up there.
We're going to quickly turn that production into oil and gas and we're estimating about 60 days to do that.
We have a few main topics here in this call of course the EUR is one thing.
Geologically of course there's deeper Three Forks objectives seeing shows.
Initially we saw about 50-foot up there and initial core is we want to test the Three Forks.
And now we're seeing shows go down 250 feet down.
And throughout the zone come and go with different benches we think that has a great implications for the future of this play.
And then also the Southeast Cana confirmation well with Lambakis.
The company is increasing our growth rate from 35% 37% to 36% to 39% and increasing our CapEx gradually as cash flow increases.
So I appreciate everybody's attention on the call this morning and thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining and have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today's call will include projections assumptions and guidance that are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this morning's call and then we will have a question-and-answer period.
Other members of management are available to answer your questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Please go ahead.
Welcome everyone to the third quarter earnings call.
In St.
Louis Cardinals' fashion Continental's earnings have rebounded from weather dampened but positive first and second quarter earnings to record production level growth of 23% quarter-over-quarter and profit levels of net income $439.1 million for the quarter.
Our report this morning will give you a glimpse of the longer-term development profile of Continental's position in the Bakken that we've discussed previously on our calls.
Not only for our 5-year plan set for 2009 through '14 but beyond.
Our next call in late February we will announce our 5-year plan beginning 2012 through '16.
Jeff Hume and John Hart joins me this morning to provide quarterly details as well as the rest of our team is here for Q&amp;A and I'll come back on to give you my views to the recovering Cushing market and the second bench impact of the Three Forks proven production of our Charlotte well prior to Q&amp;A.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Jeff.
Thank you Harold.
Continental's third quarter was all about production growth.
Production increased to 66 289 barrels oil equivalent per day a 23% increase over the second quarter of 2011.
This tremendous achievement was a result of our team's efforts company-wide in addition to continued strong growth in the Bakken.
We are also really pleased to report that our Charlotte 2-22H which targeted the second bench of the Three Forks's formation proved successful and tested 1 140 barrels of oil equivalent per day at 1 650 pounds per square inch on a 26/64" choke.
What is significant about this test is that it indicates there could be incremental reserves to be harvested deeper in the Three Forks formation.
Continental has been a pioneer in developing the Three Forks formation starting in 2008 with it's Bice 1-29 and Mathistad 135 wells in Dunn and McKenzie counties.
Since that time hundreds of Three Forks wells have been drilled by Continental and others targeting the upper part of the Three Forks formation approximately 20 feet below the base of the lower Bakken Shale.
As you may recall from our second quarter call Continental elected to do some additional science this year to evaluate the entire Three Forks formation which reaches up to 270 feet in thickness in portions of the Williston Basin.
During the year we acquired 6 cores of the entire Three Forks formation underlying our acreage and found that there are up to 4 benches of oil-bearing dolomite within the Three Forks.
We refer to them as the first second third and fourth benches.
Dolomite development in each bench varied with the first and second benches at the top being the most uniform and widespread and the third and fourth benches being developed on a more localized basis.
The cores were located along a 115-mile stretch across our acreage north to south.
Encouraged by the cores we elected to drill the Charlotte 2-22 to test the commerciality of the second bench.
The Charlotte was drilled and completed in the second bench approximately 50 feet below the location of a typical first bench well.
So we have demonstrated the commerciality of the second bench.
Now let's talk about the production growth in the third quarter.
The Bakken played the lead role with production increasing to 34 505 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the third quarter up 27% from the second quarter this year.
Production also increased in Oklahoma Woodford most notably in the Anadarko portion of the play where we have 14 rigs operating today.
Anadarko Woodford volumes were 78% higher in the third quarter compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Finally I'm really proud to note that third quarter production in the Red River Units increased 4% to 14 954 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Those of you who have followed Continental for some time may remember me stating a couple of years ago that at about this time we expect the production units to be trending down.
Apparently our Units Team was busy working didn't listen to the call because not only have they maintained production they've increased it.
This is due to the combination of factors.
In the Cedar Hills units we have repositioned high-volume downhole pumps to optimize production rates and have continued to drill new wells and convert producing wells to injector wells.
In the Buffalo and Medicine Pole Hill units we've increased our air injection capacity with additional compression which in turn has generated stronger production.
So overall the Units Team has done a tremendous job of maintaining and increasing production.
Beyond our production growth in the third quarter we continued to focus on improving the efficiency of our operations and adding infrastructure to reduce trucking and deliver as much natural gas to market as possible.
We participated in 83 gross 28.5 net wells in the Bakken.
In terms of operated wells the totals for 46 gross and 24.5 net including 3 excellent ECO-Pad projects that we announced in early October.
One note of interest is the recent completion of a 40-stage frac on a well in southern McKenzie County.
We expect to report results to you on this well by mid December.
Overall drilling times are averaging about 30 to 31 days in the Bakken.
And during the quarter we began completing our Bakken wells with a standard design of 30 stages.
Well cost continue to average right at $8 million per well and range from $7 million to $9 million depending on location and well design.
One of the most positive operating developments in the quarter was the progress we made in installing oil gas and water gathering systems to many of our Bakken well sites.
We also expect to have 2 gas plant expansions coming online by year end which will immediately process gas already connected and provide capacity for new completions.
By the way Bakken gas is very rich.
1 500 Btu with 12 gallons per 1 000 NGL included.
This contributes noticeably to our economics in the Bakken.
We also added some very attractive acreage in our Bakken position in the third quarter.
22 600 net acres in Williams and McKenzie counties mainly west of the Nesson Anticline.
Many of our strongest wells in 2011 have been drilled in this area which we refer to as the Williston prospect.
59% of the new acreage is already held by production.
Before we leave the Bakken I'd like to highlight our $5.62 per barrel oil differential in the third quarter.
This reflects the fact that we are delivering a significant portion of Bakken and Red River oil production to markets other than Cushing Oklahoma.
As you are aware Cushing is an adequately take-away capacity at this time.
As a result WTI is an increasingly unreliable metric of the value of the Bakken oil.
By the way we think the Cushing bottleneck is going to be solved sooner than most expect.
About 60% of our total production in the Williston Basin is piped to markets at Clearbrook Minnesota and Guernsey Wyoming where we've been receiving a premium of $2 to $7 per barrel for Bakken sweet.
Our Red River Units oil go to the pipeline -- goes by pipeline to Guernsey where it is priced at a discount due to higher sulfur content and lower gravity than the Bakken light sweet.
This gives you some parameters on the 60% of our Bakken and River oil that is shipped to market by pipeline.
The other 40% of our Williston Basin oil is shipped to rail -- to market by rail and most of that is transported to St.
James Louisiana.
At St.
James the price basis is Louisiana Light Sweet which this year has been significantly higher than WTI.
We have also begun railing into the upper Midwest and East Coast markets.
Railing is significantly more costly than pipe but the premium prices in these markets have more than offset the higher transportation cost.
One last observation oil and gas marketing numbers are dynamic and changing daily.
I just wanted to give you a clear idea of various markets where we are selling oil today and our efforts to deliver to premium markets given the currently depressed level of WTI.
Now let's shift to talk to the Anadarko Woodford.
We had 14 operated rigs working throughout the third quarter 4 of which were transferred to a short-term by another operator for use until January.
We participated in 31 gross 13.5 net wells in Anadarko Woodford last quarter.
A significant well was the Petty 1-16 a 100% ownership well located in Blaine County.
This well extends productive fairway of the Northwest Cana 6 miles northeast into what is considered the oil window of the play.
The well was very strong on test producing 2.1 million cubic feet of gas and 380 barrels of oil in its initial 1-day test period.
We had a number of other strong completions in the Northwest Cana last quarter and we are currently drilling or completing several wells in the Southeast Cana including the first offset to the Lambakis 1-11 in Grady County.
This well the Lyle 1-30 is located 4 miles southeast of the Lambakis has been completed and is currently flowing frac water back.
We expect to have a report on this well and several others available by mid-December.
Another important catalyst in the play will be the Toms 1-21XH well located in Blaine County.
This is the first multi-unit spaced well to be drilled in Oklahoma with a planned lateral twice as long as previous wells.
This opportunity to double the lateral length should provide a significant improvement to well economics.
In the Niobrara we are completing our second and third wells the Marconi 1-1 and the Perrin 1-10 in Well County Colorado.
These wells are located in the high-resisting force fairway that is rapidly being derisked through industry drilling and development.
We have approximately 25 000 net acres leased in this fairway.
Again we expect to report on these wells by mid-December.
Indications so far are very positive.
Before turning the call over to John to discuss financials let's take a quick look at 2012 CapEx and guidance.
93% of our $1.75 billion CapEx budget is again focused on drilling operations which includes facilities and workovers and primarily on the Bakken where we have clearly -- clearly have the strongest returns.
We plan to participate next year in 759 gross 249 net wells.
Of these 488 gross 126 net will be in the Bakken.
We plan to maintain 24 rigs in the play next year.
In the Anadarko Woodford we are budgeted to participate in 159 gross 46 net wells in 2012.
We expect to average 10 rigs in the play next year.
We plan to keep 1 rig active in the Niobrara with our non-op -- participation included we expect to participate in 26 gross 12 net wells in 2012.
Most of the remaining wells for 2012 are in the Red River Units and our Eastern division.
These wells have a significantly lower cost per well as compared to the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford.
We're expecting production growth of 26% to 28% year-over-year which will be another big step towards achieving our 2009 to 2014 goal of tripling the company's production and reserves.
We're well on our way to making this happen.
Continental clearly has a huge drilling inventory a strong balance sheet and skilled operating teams.
We look forward to many years of production growth increased proved reserves and additional value creation.
We appreciate your support as we execute our growth plan.
John I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Jeff.
This morning I'd like to comment on our financial results.
We had an excellent quarter.
Net income for the third quarter of 2011 was $439 million or $2.44 per diluted share.
This compared with net income of $39 million or $0.23 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2010.
Continental's third quarter 2011 net earnings reflected the combined effects of an after-tax unrealized gain on mark-to-market instruments of $333 million and an after-tax charge of $16 million for property impairments.
Without the combined effect of these 2 items our clean earnings were $0.68 per diluted share in line with straight consensus.
We reported EBITDAX of $338 million for the third quarter a 72% increase over EBITDAX for the third quarter of 2010.
For the first 9 months of 2011 we've generated EBITDAX of $892 million 51% higher than our EBITDAX of $590 million in the first 9 months of 2010.
As we've discussed with you in the past we decided in 2010 to pursue a prudent derivatives policy that would stabilize cash flows and enable us to maintain a more robust drilling program despite volatility in oil and natural gas prices.
This has benefited us greatly in 2011 and it remains a central aspect of our growth strategy as we look ahead.
For the fourth quarter of 2011 we have 644 000 barrels swapped at a weighted average of $86.25 and another 2.6 million barrels with collars ranging from a $75 floor to as high as $97.25.
Please refer to our third quarter 10-Q for additional detail on these contracts and the outlying years.
For 2012 we have 9.2 million barrels swapped at a weighted average of $90 and 5.3 million additional barrels with collars ranging from $80 to $97.
For 2013 we have 5.1 million barrels swapped at a weighted average $89 and another 8.8 million barrels with collars ranging from $80 to $110.
On the natural gas side we have 7.2 MMBTus swapped in the fourth quarter of 2011 at a weighted average of $5.40 and 3.7 MMBTus swapped in 2012 at a weighted average of $5.07.
In yesterday's press release we provided our outlook on operating cost per Boe for the next year.
Production expense we expect to be in the $6 to $7 per Boe range.
We further anticipate that production tax will be between 8% and 8.75%.
DD&amp;A cost should be between $17 and $20 per Boe.
Additionally we think that G&amp;A per Boe will be in the $250 to $275 range with additional non-cash compensation of $0.70 to $0.90 per Boe.
Our relocation is a central component of our multiyear growth strategy to develop our liquids-rich inventory.
The relocation is already paying dividends in the form of the expansion of our talent-rich workforce and is going exceedingly well.
We expect to be fully relocated to Oklahoma City by the summer of 2012.
In terms of our growth we expect to fund a large majority of our production growth with increased cash flow from operations.
As additional cushion our revolver borrowing base has recently increased to $2.25 million in line with the growth in our proved oil and gas reserves base.
Our commitments remain at $750 million today which leaves us with $617 million of that being available as of October 31.
Our 2012 guidance is for production growth of 26% to 28%.
We set this target based on a desire to limit the extent to which we outspend cash flow next year.
If commodity prices and operating cost improves significantly generating even higher rates of returns we can easily and efficiently elevate our growth curve.
We are on track to accomplish our goal of tripling production and reserves and we have ample capital resources and access to new capital to get the job done without significantly increasing our net debt metrics.
Capital discipline is a key factor in this growth plan.
Under our current plan we expect to achieve cash flow neutrality in 2014.
With that I'll turn it over to Harold.
Thank John.
I'll just comment on a couple of things briefly before we go to Q&amp;A.
A lot of people are interested in what's happening with the Cushing market.
And as Jeff indicated we see recovery at this market a lot sooner than people have expected.
In fact we see this Cushing market recovery beginning now.
It's already begun.
This market has been disadvantaged due to lack of pipeline capacity as foreign crude came in primarily through Keystone Pipeline.
And basically what turns it around of course is additional pipeline access and we see of course 2 things occurring there.
One first of all is a huge differential that came into effect to provide for deficiency of about as much as $29 per barrel.
We see that now being reduced down at -- right around now about $17 below Brent's the world market price.
Short-term we see a couple of things happening fairly quickly.
The first one would be the existing Seaway Pipeline factor as I'll call it helping that disadvantaged market.
Conoco of course has announced that they're selling that and we see several companies interested.
And of course that could be turned around quickly estimate is 3 to 6 months' time.
That could turn around and give short-term relief to the market.
Longer-term of course is Keystone XL the first segment being built from Cushing to Houston that would provide some of the long-term relief that's needed for this market.
So we see that recovering and maybe perhaps quicker than other people generally have thought.
The second thing I'll comment upon of course -- so we mentioned the Charlotte 2-22H well that is in the second bench of Three Forks.
Basically we see this giving us an additional extensive reservoir and of course another valid type point to this petroleum system of the Bakken.
So we see it as a very very good plus for additional reserves up here in the Bakken.
I think the second bench can mimic the productive capacity of the first bench that we've seen with the longer-producing wells up there.
So with that I'll turn it over for question-and-answers.
[Operator Instructions] And we have our first question in the queue and it comes from the line of Scott Wilmoth from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> What I'm thinking about 2012 production guidance you guys laid out how should we think about oil and gas growing separately throughout the year? Well I think they're going to pretty well grow in concert from how they've done this year.
We're obviously seeing an increase in the gas just due to the plants coming on in North Dakota.
So we'll have a little little jump in the fourth quarter we believe late late in the fourth quarter where we have 2 plants coming on of about 160 million a day capacity that we deliver to.
And they're doing pretty well.
But next year with 24 rigs running in the Bakken and 10 in the Woodford we're going to see about the same type of growth or relationship in gas and oil as we've had this year.
We're seeing better productivity in the Bakken and we expect better productivity with the 30-stage frac.
So we should increase our oil components as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then when I think about the 2012 budget what price deck did you guys set that at? And you alluded to it could be revised higher.
What price level would we see activity and production increase? We set that at a strip price and it was a late October strip that we set that -- that at.
Scott I don't have it on top of my head but it's probably in the upper 80s.
It's in the range point.
Kind of where we're at today.
We model that in a variety of ways.
So we've looked at a number of scenarios for the market and we've considered the expectations.
So as we continue to watch the markets as we indicated we can quickly and efficiently adjust our plans as we've done.
Research Division</strong> So what price would -- would you guys adjust your plans upward? Yes we would.
Research Division</strong> At what price? Oh what price? I think we see a price of $95 and above.
We'll probably be -- we'll have additional cash flow to do that.
And as Harold mentioned with the expected turnaround of the Seaway Pipeline that could happen by midyear we could see the second half of the year have oil prices $10 to $15 higher than they are now at the wellhead.
So that would provide a significant cash flow to accelerate the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
When I think about the second Three Forks bench what are your additional plans there? And are you guys going to drill a test under an existing first Three Forks bench test? We don't have any current plans to do that.
There will be several other wells going forward in that same bench but we don't have any plan right now just to get under a first bench well to test it like we did at Mathistad.
We don't have a plan to do that right at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my last question is in the Charlotte well where is it located along that north/south area that you guys tested? And was there any distinction in that core that area versus the other parts of the play? The Charlotte is actually kind of centrally located in the cores that we took.
It's in 152 north 99 west section 22.
And it really -- what was really remarkable to us is the fact that in each of these cores we saw oil saturation in the dolomitic members of the first second third and fourth benches.
And really all these cores we saw it at different degrees but the first bench and second bench showed the best uniformity development.
And then the third and fourth as Jeff had mentioned we're a little more localized in their development.
And then in some places it's a little bit -- I'd say that one well it looked like maybe the third and fourth were absent.
But overall what we're seeing is widespread development of all 4 benches.
And where we find dolomite in them you have oil saturation.
So really the significance of these cores that we've taken in the Charlotte outcome here is that we've really redefined the geologic model for the petroleum system in the Bakken formation right now Bakken and Three Forks.
What we're dealing with -- the whole petroleum system itself includes the Bakken and Three Forks.
Initially we thought all production was really going to be restricted to the Bakken and the upper part of the Three Forks immediately underneath the Bakken shale.
And now we've recognized from the cores we've taken that this oil saturation extends all the way down to the base of the Three Forks formation.
And that Three Forks gives up to 270 foot thick.
So you got a very large -- much larger petroleum system than we envisioned here initially.
And so it just adds -- just makes sense that we've got incremental reserves to add to these additional benches here.
And our next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just kind of a quick follow-up to what we're talking about with that Charlotte well there.
So just trying to get a sense in general.
Obviously you guys have done a ton of wells in the Three Forks/Sanish.
And when you guys frac those have you done microseismic to see how that frac kind of propagates kind of up/down sort of how far away from the wellbore you think that that kind of moves? Any chance that you've frac-ed into the second bench with any of your existing wells what I'm trying to get at here? Leo we have not done any microseis to get vertical heights of growth on the fracs yet.
We have done extensive modeling that's one of the outcomes of our coring -- core work and log sweet work we did on these 6 wells.
It's where we can model that.
And we have modeled it and we feel that it's possible we could redesign our frac to get higher frac height and conductivity.
Our current fracs we don't believe will extend down into that at -- 50 foot away is extensive distance for it to go and it is slower.
We saw a slightly higher frac gradient in the second bench on the Charlotte than we did on the middle Bakken well that's in that spacing unit with it.
So what we're seeing is higher frac rating as we go lower in the same spacing unit.
So I would not expect it to grow down into the second bench.
Now we maybe able to get down in the lower benches redesign our frac with higher concentrations of fluid and more viscous fluid and have that high frac and really up our reserves in the future but that's part of the future work we're going to be working -- testing on in the future.
And I think you'll hear more out of us on that.
So we have potential maybe to significantly increase our productivity and reserves out of a single well with a frac redesign and placing the well bore lower in the Three Forks.
But that's the work to go forward.
At this time the good news is we have a second bench that's producing that we don't think we've touched yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And do you guys have any plans to test the third and fourth bench at any point in time here? During the year? I guess next year? Yes we will.
That why this work has gone forward to see know what productive capacity is through these lower benches.
And certainly we're going to be testing those.
And that's why we're not doubling up and testing interference at this point.
We'll do it at some point but we don't have any plan to do it right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just kind of moving over to the Anadarko Woodford.
Just wanted to get a sense of your infrastructure over there.
I know in the past that you've kind of reported that.
A lot of the wells that you guys have produced have been somewhat constrained.
You guys aren't able to open these up all the way.
Just wanted to see if there's kind of any update on infrastructure in both Southeast Cana and kind of Northwest.
And just trying to figure out if most of your wells you still think are pretty choked back on the production here? Well quite a few of those in the Northwest are choked back at this time.
We have entered into a contract that's allowing a midstream company to put in a much larger gathering system to alleviate that chokepoint if you will of using existing gathering.
And they are on their way to getting that done.
And I think by probably second quarter we'll be seeing relief from that increased gathering system size.
In the Southeast Cana we're currently up to bid on that.
As you realize we haven't run very many rigs down there.
But our testing has shown -- all of the area in the Southeast Cana with strong productivity extremely rich gas and strong liquid component -- free liquid component if you will of crude oil and condensate.
And so we're out to bid right now.
We're working with several different companies on bids for that to get that system in place before we ramp up the rig count in there which we'll be doing through 2012 and beyond.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And does that also include bids for potential processing plants? Anywhere around there? You guys think you'd make better economics I imagine by getting the gas processed? It sounds like you're just selling it rich now.
No that's exactly what this does.
It's not only gathering but it's plant construction.
Once we contract with the midstream they'll be putting larger gathering systems in to handle the high flow rates that we have from these horizontal Woodford wells initial flow rates and also process the rich gas through cryogenic processing.
And both areas will have cryogenic processing capacity as part of that contract.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Any kind of planned sort of asset sales in the future as well? Well don't have any definite plans right now.
We are selling some acreage that's in fringe areas and does not have a large ownership position in.
So we are marking some of that.
But no fixed plans at this time although that is an opportunity that we do have is to sell some non-key assets.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Lively from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question on the second bench Three Forks.
What's the gas-to-oil ratio and water cut on the well? Yes the GOR on that is I believe currently in the 1 400 range.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And water cut? The water cut I don't have in front of me.
But I -- Jack do you have a feel for that? I don't.
But consistent with what we see in the area.
Nothing abnormal about it at all.
Right.
Yes we're pretty early in there.
We're still getting frac water back Brian.
So we have probably 35% 40% water still coming back in that area.
We expect it to fall down to a 8% or 10% water cut.
And Brian I don't know if this was where you're going with the question but maybe you were thinking as you go lower in the system you might pick up water.
In these type of systems here we're talking basin centered oil systems those water lakes don't exist.
And so we're dealing with essentially an overpressured cell of oil that is basically stratabound by the overlying lodgepole[ph] which is a tight sealed rock on the top and the Nisku Formation which is a tight rock that seals the base.
And so this oil that's been generated from the shales in Bakken essentially has been unable to escape from the basin.
And so that's why it's overpressured and it's saturating every dolomite any kind of rock that has any kind of porosity and permeability.
They're still tight by conventional standards but it's saturating any kind of rock that has any kind of perm and porosity at all.
And so we don't see water being an issue here at all.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I wasn't expecting there to be aquifer but I was thinking more in the sense of a capillary pressure or relative perm impact.
But you guys think the sourcing is still the lower Bakken? Oh yes.
I sure do.
And in fact the interesting thing is that the Nisku below it is normally pressured and the lodgepole[ph] above the Bakken is normally pressured.
And so again that -- and we don't see Bakken oil above it and above the lodgepole[ph] section essentially.
And so what we see is that the generation and the oil saturation we've gotten here is clearly coming from the Bakken shales.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the trap mechanism is the same? Yes.
In fact what's happening here as you generate the hydrocarbons you're overpressuring the shales and the oil will move out in any direction of lower pressure.
So it's going to move to perm and porosity.
And so it's moved up sideways and down as far as it can go.
And so the oil is migrating through fractures down through that first bench in the Three Forks into the second into the third and down into the fourth.
And when it hits the anhydrides at the Nisku it just can't penetrate the Nisku.
Anhydrides are very very tight rocks and so essentially the oil moves down as far as it can and it starts moving sideways out in these dolomitic members of the Three Forks.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Thanks for explaining it's pretty easy to understand.
I have a couple more just on the -- in looking at your 2012 CapEx guidance and if I compare that to sort of the Q4 run rate of about $600 million it seems like you guys are going to -- are planning to spend maybe $150 million or so less per quarter next year.
Yet the rig count doesn't seem to be materially different versus where you guys are now.
I know there's a few less rigs in the Anadarko.
Now how does that reconcile? Well the biggest thing is we were behind on completions.
We have a tremendous backlog of completions that we're working out right now and our carry-in going into 2012 is going to be very strong.
So during 2012 maintaining a fairly flat rig count throughout the year we're going to have a strong carry-in value that half the dollars are spent in 2011.
So that's kind of how the model works Brian.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it seems like with -- some are rig count and then you still have some completion dollars next year for the same production growth.
Why wouldn't...
Well our land cost is also down quite a bit.
So you need to look at the dollars going into the drilling and completion.
We have 93% of our dollars are going in in 2012 versus what we have done in 2011.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last for me you touched on a bit with the asset sales but you guys have in the past been a bit leery of really drawing down the revolver.
I know with the current budgets you're drawing down a bit next year.
It's not undoable.
But aside from asset sales what are -- are there any other plans? Or are you guys just comfortable drawing down? Our revolver we've got it very lightly drawn down.
It is a tool that we've historically used.
And where interest rates are now and where they'll be I think we're certainly comfortable using that.
But we've got a variety of options.
We've got increasingly positive cash flow.
And frankly we expect oil prices to continue to improve into next year and that's going to generate higher levels of cash flow also.
So we've got a lot of strong funding options and we can maintain our financial strength.
And our next question comes from the line of Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> I got on a little bit late so I apologize if you already covered this.
But with the success you had in the second bench of the Three Forks I did hear you talk a little bit about looking at changing your frac design.
Are there implications for -- well I guess I'd say sort of best case and worst case what would your options be for exploiting the multiple zones? I mean does this mean greater density? Does this mean sort of pad drilling that would go after different benches while you're drilling simultaneously? Well I think what it provides is that -- what we're seeing is as Jack described there and you may have missed it Noel we have a system that we are seeing as saturated 270 feet thick up to that thickness saturated with oil.
And we've just tested this second bench and have productivity.
We had slightly higher frac grade in that rock than we did in the upper bench in the area so we feel like the frac grading is increasing as we go down.
So more than likely our current fracs that we are doing are not touching effectively draining anything from the second bench.
Once we test the third and the fourth benches then we can start working on frac redesigns.
Can we frac that entire 150 to 250-foot or 200-foot interval with one frac and build a kind of conductivity through that to drain it? If that's the case we could see reserves double or triple in a single well draining that rock.
That's the potential you have.
Now a caution that's what we have -- that's what we're working towards and it's going to take quite a bit of work and we'll be doing that over the next year or 2.
It's going to take quite a bit of time.
In the meantime we're working very very fast across our acreage position with middle Bakken and upper bench wells and we'll be sprinkling in some of these second third and fourth bench wells and probably be looking at the redesign fracs after we get a few of those done and understand the productivity of these lower benches.
Out in the future I think you're spot on of where we could go and that would be have wells with perhaps double the reserves for the same cost or slightly more cost with a redesigned frac.
So that's the science going forward.
It's not what we're declaring we're doing today.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And in the Charlotte just to refresh my memory was it the Bakken productive -- or expected to be productive there? Or had it thinned out in that area? No it's productive.
Our Charlotte 1...
Charlotte #1 well is a Bakken well.
It's a middle Bakken dolomite well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- I mean can you talk about again sort of maybe best case and more conservative case number of wells per section we might be looking at? If we were thinking in much of the play I guess now people are talking about at least 3 each Bakken and Three Forks.
I mean are we talking about 3 Bakken and still more Three Forks? Noel we feel pretty comfortable that we'll be drilling 4 on each horizon.
And we'll obviously be doing that very much like we're doing in Elm Coulee now.
We drill 3 within the unit and then we'll do a well on the boundary of both sides.
So you have a half-well on each side of the space unit.
So you have a net 4 wells in each horizon.
And right now I would say I'm very comfortable that where the Three Forks is developed you'll have 4 in the middle Bakken 4 in the Three Forks.
And if we can -- if we cannot tie the first second third and fourth benches together with a common frac you could potentially have 2 3 or 4 additional separate zones that you could frac 4 wells per spacing unit so it would be tremendous.
So obviously we're going to work very hard to come up with a design where we can either drill a multiple lateral or do a redesign frac to have conductivity height that would access the fluids from all 4 of those benches if they're productive in an area.
So for right now I think we're fairly comfortable we'll have 8 wells per spacing unit in the middle Bakken and the upper bench.
And this first test on the Charlotte gives us indication we'll probably have up to 50% more wells to drill if we can't connect those.
And so this 50% increase in reserves at minimum and then as we test the third and fourth benches even more.
And Noel I would just add too.
This is Jack.
I just wanted to make sure when we're talking about these benches over that say in the Charlotte we cored it and we had 220 feet of Three Forks formation.
And within that we had 4 benches and -- but the reason we're suspecting these do not communicate is that there are shales separating these dolomitic benches.
These aren't -- it isn't just oil saturation from top to bottom.
We actually have some shale separation between the dolomitic members that represent the targets for these benches.
So we had about 114 feet of oil saturation on the 220 in that Charlotte well.
And I think that as Jeff said we're still evaluating whether or not we're going to need a wellbore in each of these benches or whether or not we could somehow combine it to price.
And our next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver from Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On the production guidance for next year could you talk some about the shape of the 2012 production curve? I mean this year was very -- the growth was very back-half weighted.
How do you anticipate it being next year from quarter-to-quarter? Well with a constant rig count we should see pretty steady growth throughout the year and not have it back-weighted.
So that's what we would expect.
We're going to have fairly steady completions each month.
Outside of weather interruptions like we had this year I think you would need to model it as continuous growth throughout the year on -- just adding those completions in.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how many wells do you plan on completing next year versus the number that you plan on drilling in the...
Right now it's a little bit nebulous on the number but just short of 250 wells is what it looks like.
Net-net wells Marshall.
That's for next year and we're going to be -- this year we're going to be in the 180 to 210 range something like that on completions just kind of depending how the net wells and how it finishes.
So we'll have slightly more completions next year and that's just due to the carry-in.
Last year we didn't have a strong carry-in because we didn't have the rig count.
We added rigs through the first quarter and ramped that up.
And then this year we're going to let it flatten out a little bit.
We're letting infrastructure catch up with us a little bit not press it any work on our efficiencies and cost and kind of see where this oil price goes.
That's a big swing for us and we think that it's going to make a big change at midyear.
We'll kind of see where that's at.
But right now we're taking a conservative approach and setting our budget.
We have strong growth for that approach.
We're not running up our revolver very much with it and have great metrics.
So that's our plan today.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Can you maybe talk about the -- you talked about the cost in the Bakken at $8 million.
Does that include the 30-stage frac wells? That is the 30-stage frac well and as I stated that will range from $7 million to $9 million a little over $9 million depending on where we're at.
Some areas of the field we can drill faster and has a lower frac gradient.
So your hydraulic horsepower charge is less on the frac.
Some areas where we're deeper we have to put a little heavier pipe in to handle that frac grade in and pay the higher horsepower.
So that's the variation in there.
And that's pretty much 30-stage all the way because that's our base now.
Our base is 30 stages.
And as we mentioned this morning we have performed one 40-stage frac down in southern McKenzie County to test that area with a 40-stage.
Research Division</strong> And have you all started to see pressure pumping cost kind of flatten yet? Yes we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Has it declined? I think it's on the -- I think you're right on the edge if you will of starting to see a decline.
There is quite a bit of competition.
We in fact have been using 3 primary providers.
We have several others knocking on our door who want to get an opportunity.
And at the end of the day when everybody's providing good service the cost really come into play then.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you also mentioned on your capital budget with lower cost or higher commodity that you'd look potentially increase activity where would you increase activity? Would it be in the Bakken? I think that's where we would increase it at.
One thing we may note is in some cases we've got -- if you look at our acreage base we've got acreage with the needs to be HBP'd and we're diligently working on that.
Some of that may be in a 40% to 50% working interest range.
We also have quite a bit of acreage through some of our recent acquisitions of lease acreage where you're 80% 90% working interest.
And we can utilizing the same rigs we can increase our capital spend and production rates pretty quickly.
So we think that's a big advantage.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Allman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the second third and fourth benches so does this result from this well make you want to slowdown the activity for the Three Forks just so you can figure out how you're going to develop it going forward and maybe the early part of next year of through next year focus more on the Bakken? Because it seems like this result really potentially changes the way you develop Three Forks.
Well the productive capacity of course of this zone makes us want to continue development of the Three Forks gives us a lot of choices on how we go about that.
But we will quickly -- and basically the way we do it is through actively drilling out there testing the concepts that we develop here.
So I don't think it slows us down a bit though if anything speeds up the development within a particular area.
In fact Joe I think the success on the Charlotte 2 is going to encourage us to drill more second-bench wells start working on the frac redesigns see if we can increase the reserves per well and hopefully for the CapEx we have laid out for 2012 we'll have higher reserve and higher productivity.
So that's what we're looking at.
So there's a lot of upside we think we'll have in 2012 as we continue to test the Three Forks' lower benches.
And so that I think is more the other way that we're going to be encouraged to drill more Three Forks wells to do more testing in there with the solid results.
Research Division</strong> So it seems then that -- it seems that pretty much right away you're going to start making adjustments.
So instead of drilling in the middle of the first bench of the Three Forks is it true that the next few wells are -- early in 2012 you're going to try the lower part of the first bench and then try some other things maybe in the second or third bench? We'll be making adjustments so I don't know if it's going to be all at once.
But we do everything cautiously and we weigh it up and what we're doing.
We have a lot of plans in place and we just don't turn on a dime with that.
But we're going to take specific steps to test the second bench see if we can design a frac that will touch multiple benches.
We'll be looking at the third and fourth benches as we move through the year and I think it'll be not a drastic move to that but I think you'll see a sprinkling that in as we move ahead with our development.
Research Division</strong> Will you be using microseismic for those wells just to see where you're getting production from? Not right now.
One of the tough things on microseis is having a wellbore situated that you can use to have sondies ph] down in the well to see the vertical height.
And most of this area you don't have wellbores available where we're working at in new areas that don't have developments.
So that's one thing we may look to doing at some point.
But right now we don't have any on the schedule that I'm aware of where we're going to be running microseis.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then is the Three Forks across your acreage variable in any way such that in certain parts of your acreage you don't necessarily have a second bench or third bench or fourth bench? Well Joe we're working on assessing that across our acreage.
There aren't many cores out there in the Three Forks.
We've got some of the few that have been taken out there through the whole interval.
So we have to use those logs or those cores and compare them to logs and then do the mapping.
What we see is the first bench is quite widespread.
The second bench is equally widespread as the first and pretty uniform in development based on our cores and what we see in existing logs.
And the third and the fourth as we said is a more localized in their development still cover broad areas but we don't see quite the uniformity of development across the basin.
So we'll ultimately have maps on each of those benches and be able to give a better perspective on that down the road.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then a different topic.
So with the increased number of completions you expect next year does that require you to bring in additional frac crews? Well we think we can handle it with -- we have 4 dedicated crews and a fifth that is also pretty much at our disposal.
And that is without adding some of the existing frac crews that are in Williston.
And if you talk to most of the service providers they're continuing to ramp up to meet the demand.
We think that we're going to be fine.
And our next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Curious in 2012 your outlook for production from the non-core assets specifically Arkoma some of these -- other Mid-Continent looks like there's Q3 somewhere in the order of 150 million a day.
And you seem to have done a fine job of growing all the non-core as well as the core and if you expect that's going to continue into 2012.
Well we think -- our challenge with our base assets -- we hate to call them non-core because we still try to put quite a bit of focus on it.
But we do have some decline modest decline built in on those because we're not spending a lot of capital.
But that being said we've got several production optimization initiatives underway that -- we're going to continue to challenge our teams to do just what the Red River Units team has done and that's to keep those volumes flat.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I mean these are just my -- if those volumes were flat sort of 27% growth rate seems light for next year.
Any comment? Well we don't -- it's not in the bag.
Obviously we've got a lot of things underway but we feel pretty confident about achieving this guidance at this point in time and we'll see how our fourth and first quarter go weather-wise.
That's going to be one of the big drivers.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then back to the benches.
Believe it or not a few more questions here.
First so when I'm thinking about 1 2 3 and 4 and optimizing frac techniques I'm curious if we had to put reserves on it per well is it been something that is probable that you might see a 500 000-barrel Three Forks well turn into a 1 million barrel Three Forks well? Or if these are sort of equivalent benches you have all of them 500 000-barrel becomes a 2 million-barrel Three Forks well.
So is that A what is possible out here? And second I guess at the Bakken some of the oil in the Bakken I guess migrating down which I guess is rare but happens here because of the seals and so on.
Is there any implication of how a frac might travel? Does it also make it easier for frac to head down and be more effective in the deeper lower parts of the Three Forks? Yes.
We're going to break it after the 2 parts Subash.
First of all in this petroleum system what we have is hydraulics through this kitchen area that most of our acreage is located in.
It actually pushes this oil vertically downward out of these shales and to the base of the Three Forks and then spreads out laterally.
And so of course drainage when you look at draining these reservoirs if we can get where we're producing from a lower point over the life of this field it's going to be a tremendous advantage just due to gravity and producing these reservoirs.
So I'm going to turn it over to Jeff get his engineering view as to what he thinks ultimately that that's going to add a feeling of production -- productive capacity as we go forward.
Yes Subash on your question on adding the additional benches and if we are not effectively touching them now which we do not feel we are just from early early data I'm very cautious here.
This is our first well to be drilled in the lower bench.
But we did see a higher slightly higher frac gradient than we normally see in the Three Forks in this the upper Three Forks bench in this area.
So as we move forward your comment about could this 400 000 500 000 barrel well 600 000 barrel well double.
Absolutely.
If we can get conductivity between the 2 as Jack described there is shale in between those and the key is going to be having enough profit in there placed that we can effectively drain the 2 of those.
So frac modeling indicates that we can do that.
Now frac modeling is good to a certain degree then you just have to go out and put it into practice.
So we're going to continue to tune our models as we frac these second benches and third and fourth benches and test those and then we'll be changing frac designs trying to tie them together and see if we can tie 2 of them together.
And hopefully we'll be doubling that and going -- having 1 million barrels 1.2 million-barrel completions with not much more cost.
Obviously when you change a frac design you ask more -- add more viscosity maybe a larger fluid content and more profit the cost may go up there.
But proportionate to the reserves you gain it'd be a home run.
So that's what we have on our plate to work with completion engineers are working with right now and reservoir group and we're going to be working towards this.
So I think that's the upside we'll have and hopefully over the next year or 2 we'll be unlocking that and do it fairly fairly quickly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And so I guess for us monitoring or well watching if you will that that type of reserve upside will be apparent from of course the IP but more importantly to the decline curves of the well? Yes more.
The decline curve is the most important thing.
We've started downplaying these IPs a long time ago because you can make them say whatever you want them to say.
We really need to look at the decline curve.
The IP gives you an indication of productivity but then you have to look at decline curve and what you're getting out of that well long-term.
The cume [ph] over that first 90 days 180 days is really really important.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a Cana question here talking about decline curves.
Can you comment on your sort of longest producing Cana wells? What you've seen sort of -- first the 30 day rate? And then what you've seen say day 1 till yesterday-type numbers on declines there versus -- are they very similar to the Arkoma and how it might vary maybe at the Bakken even? Well our first well the Brown 1-2 is made about a B 1.5 [ph] and 19 000 barrels of oil to date.
It came on in late 2009.
It was an early well and is doing very well.
Our Dana well offsetting -- that's been on a little less than a year or right at a year.
It's made about 7/10 Bcf and 16 000 barrels of oil.
And that's down in Grady County.
We have some of the new wells like the Lambakis that's farther south.
It's holding up very good on oil rates.
it's about a 8 Bcf equivalent well and it's hanging in there pretty strong right now.
So we're seeing the Anadarko Woodford to have flatter declines than the Bakken per se and that's just due to a little bit better permeability and that fracture salacious shale.
So it's more of a silica reservoir silica-based reservoir than the shale that you have in some of these other gas plays and it allows us to produce these liquid-rich areas.
So we're getting pretty excited about that.
The Petty well is really pulling off strong.
As I just said the Lambakis well's pulling well.
We have a -- the Dana well is holding up real well on oil production and is doing well.
And so I think we're seeing a little bit better perm in the Woodford overall and a little flatter decline.
And that's allowed us to have the reserve picture that we have.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what does that oil sell for? In Oklahoma we're probably getting around $3 to $4 under WTI right now at the wellhead.
And we're seeing WTI increase quite a bit.
As Harold said it's improved.
Its spread has improved about $10 in the last 2 weeks.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes it sure has.
And then one final one.
So in the Cana you're producing out of the shale but you're also producing out of the interbedded I guess silica which -- is it carbonate-rich at all? No it's a silica-rich shale and it's -- in some areas silica count's higher than the clay count in most of that area.
You have an organic clay and that's where the hydrocarbon comes from but then there's a tremendous silica component.
Some of the Woodford has a -- very heavy with chert and chert's brittle and breaks very easily under stress and therefore you have storage within the fractures and that chert.
So the chert and silica micro fractures what we're -- the storage system in the shale.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the clay content do you have a percent how it might vary north to south? Really Subash -- this is Jack.
We see that the lower half of the Woodford is much more clay rich than the upper half just to put it simply.
And the silica content in the upper half tends to be very high and the lower half tends to be low.
So I'm going to say below 50% in the lower half and above 50% in the upper half.
And as Jeff said that silica content really gives you the storage and the deliverability and so that's really the significance because it's all in one system.
You got the generation and the storage all within one formation there.
We target this silica or the more siliceous zones due to just higher deliverability coming from those zones.
And our next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick brief question a follow-up to your 2012 guidance number.
I want to understand your thought process of how you balance between CapEx and production flows? I think one of the factors you mentioned is how much you want to outspend cash flow.
So I was wondering if there is a target that you tried to aim for in 2012? And also how do you think about that in 2013 before you turn cash flow neutral in '14? Well we're trying to put our cash flow to work on our highest-return areas.
We're looking for capital efficiency and growth.
We have a 3-year plan of tripling which is a 24.5% annual growth.
So we're wanting to achieve a minimum of that.
With our inventory as strong as it is we're trying to put as much of that those dollars that we have available capital to work in those areas to grow that because we have almost a multi-decade inventory right now to work on at the current rate.
So obviously we have the opportunity to increase that as we grow our production and that's our plan.
A static snapshot we'd go to maintaining our cash flow not bringing anything else in.
We'll go to a cash flow-neutral position in 2014 maintaining those growth rates of over 25% annual growth rate.
Obviously when we have the opportunity to accelerate it with the inventory we have we're going to try to do that.
So we have increased crude pricing or natural gas pricing in the coming year.
We'll accelerate our spending levels to grow that.
So it's a balance of available cash putting it to work in highly efficient opportunities where we're seeing -- we're seeing 40% to 60% rates of return in our core areas of the Bakken.
Our Niobrara we're going to see -- potentially have 60% to 100% rate of returns in some of those areas.
The way it's looking right now we'll just have to get a few wells completed to see if the numbers hold out.
The Woodford we're seeing 25% to 35% rates of return today.
And with the cross unit spacing we're going to be able to kick that up another 15% on rate of return.
Because of capital utilization we'll be much more efficient in that.
And so we're getting pretty excited about some of those.
We have several opportunities to really improve our capital spend efficiency and we continue to work with that.
Back in the Bakken one of the things -- one of our plans this year is in holding the rig steady is to improve that inefficiency.
As we stated our drilling time is in that 30 to 31 days right now.
We know we can improve that in the 20-day range by just working on efficiencies.
We've done that before when we had a lower rig count in the basin.
And it's not just Continental's rig counts everybody's stressing the system.
And the system is catching up the infrastructure's catching up.
People are moving into the area.
As Rick talked about the frac crews many more frac crews were moving in.
There's more rig-moving crews moving in and a lot of efficiency is being built out.
Rail efficiencies are getting equipment in.
So I think you're going to see our cost come down just due to that efficiency as we go forward.
Our model is based on what we're doing today.
And so that's how you have to model is what you're actually doing.
And so I think as time goes as the year goes on I think you'll see improved capital efficiency.
Hopefully we'll blow out and have higher production than we're forecasting just due to that efficiency of capital spend.
And that's our plan internally.
But today we have to model on what we're doing today.
Research Division</strong> Right.
No I certainly understand that that you have a great opportunity set.
I was just wondering if there's like a magical target number of amount that you want to outspend in cash flow by -- just looking at my numbers right now it looks like next year you'll outspend by maybe $300 million to $400 million.
So I didn't know if you have a target.
And I know you said that if prices go up then numbers could go up as well.
But I was just trying to get a better feel for it.
I wouldn't say there's a magical number.
Let me step back for a second.
$300 million $400 million I don't disagree with the range of that.
I think that can improve when we see the commodity prices come up as we expect later in 2012 mid 2012.
We're very focused on our economics and in maximizing our economics.
We have a significant tremendous long-term asset.
If we can get a little better price that only maximizes that economic situation over the long term.
So we're prudent in that and we'd like to see some of that come.
We also have infrastructure at North Dakota that is rapidly expanding and being added to it the roads and the trucks and the other things in North Dakota that are improving significantly.
Those help to improve our efficiencies which also will then benefit our economics.
Right now we've got a tremendous amount of cash flow and flexibility.
Could we spend more without overly levering the company? Yes we could.
We've always focused on keeping our debt metrics relative to cash flow and certainly less than 1.5 and we're well south of that currently.
We're right down around 1x cash flow.
So we have some flexibility there.
But beyond a target metric it's more the improvement we want to see in oil prices the improvement we want to see in service company cost and the additions to the infrastructure.
And our next question comes from the line of Mike Jones.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Mike Jones from Imperial Capital.
Just wanted to ask on the Red River Units.
I guess you've touched on keeping it kind of flat but you're back at mid 2009 levels.
Should we expect some producers to come off as you further optimize? Or just sort of declines from here? Well we think we have capacity to continue to grow.
We've added -- in the Medicine Pole Hills and Buffalo area we've redeployed some compression we had in Cedar Hills.
That will take about 9 months' lag time from when start injecting to we start seeing results from that.
We've been injecting there for 6 months roughly so we're hoping to see some improvement there.
That will allow us to change some patterns possibly drill some wells get better sweep efficiency in those areas and we have capital allocated for doing that.
In the Cedar Hills field we continue to drill more density and convert currently producing wells to injectors and our new wells will become producers.
So we're tightening the density of the spacing and getting new patterns if you will flood patterns.
That has a lag time of around 6 months also.
From starting injection you convert the pattern about 6 months and it comes on.
So we have a series of patterns if you will through Cedar Hills that are at various stages of being flooded.
And they're just working better than we had planned.
And that's very good news.
And so we're seeing -- that team has done an outstanding job of balancing fluid going in versus fluid out making sure we're lifting all the fluid from those wells.
And we're modeling a little bit of decline in that area and the units this year.
Well I think those guys will probably make me look bad again and outperform.
But we'll just have to see.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great.
Is it possible to ever reach 17 000 barrels a day as you we're thinking maybe 2 years ago? Or how does that kind of set for peak production? Well we've been real close to that number and it's beyond our earlier expectations.
And so we keep going upward.
So we just have to wait and see what that turns out.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Final question on the oil window of the Anadarko Woodford.
I am not sure which well name it was but the 380 barrels per day.
How are you seeing in the Northeast versus the Southeast and optimizing completions in this higher liquids flow areas? Yes I think that's a good question.
In the northeast part the well you're referring to is probably the Petty well.
That's a well at IPed at 380 barrels a day and still producing well over 200 barrels of oil a day.
It is a shallower interval.
As you go to the south and west you're plunging into the deeper part of the Anadarko Basin.
So we do see some lower trading ph] pressures there and the order of magnitude is probably in the 1 500 psi range at 80 barrels a minute.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So If you look at the pressure differential when are you going to have that lift? Do you think to the Petty well? Could you repeat your question? LLC Research Division</strong> Just regarding artificial lift are you going to have to put that well a pump relatively quickly? And would you...
No we do not think so.
Those wells are staying -- they're flowing for quite some time although -- we do have a handful of wells that we have put.
We have put on a gas lift and those are in some of our earlier wells.
But in some of our more recent wells we have not seen that.
LLC Research Division</strong> So do you guys expect to be talking about a potential oil window as you go forward and drill more wells kind of outside the gas condensate? I'm trying to understand.
Yes I think that's accurate.
And the other thing I'll say is that we're still learning -- we're still fairly early in this play.
And it's really exciting about what we're learning.
The last 6 months we've been very encouraged with the amount of liquids that we've seen in some of our wells and -- go down to the southeast part of the basin we haven't talked about it a lot we did mention it in the press release but the Lyle well is flowing backward.
We'd hope to have the well going down the cell's line actually today that we've been slowed down a little bit with some downstream issues with the gathering system.
But the preliminary results are very very encouraging even compared to the Lambakis.
The Lambakis is still 3.5 million a day and doing very well.
It's flattened out there.
So as Jeff alluded to earlier our first look is we're looking at 8 Bs plus down there.
So a lot going on in the Anadarko Woodford.
We're trying to really fine-tune where some of the more oily areas are and we think we're making some real progress there.
And Mike also on these oily areas we're seeing a higher Btu gas and seeing a real nice premium on that gas price.
And so I think we'll be -- with the move we're making you hit right on.
We're identifying through our drilling the richer liquids area of the Woodford play and will over time be identifying that more precisely putting more of our fleet in that area and growing that.
And I think you'll see internal rates return improve significantly in the Woodford as we move forward this year with a combination of that movement and identify the cross-units that we identified.
At this time we've got over -- with the seismic we have we've got over 48 of those cross-unit wells identified that we'll be spacing and drilling.
We'll be starting our first well that Tom's well drilling it in the next couple of weeks.
And it's going to be huge change a huge change for us.
Tom's well by the way offsets our Petty's so we're expecting fairly high production rates of liquid on that and very rich gas.
So it could be a big game changer so be listening to that here in the next quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Coleman from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just had one question I know there's been a lot around the Three Forks here today.
I guess I'll just focus on the ground level here.
Knowing your ECO-Pads are a certain size could you refresh our memory what the sizes are? And I guess if you're going to go with bigger fracs will you need to expand the size of that footprint to able to get all the kit on location? And second of all do you have -- what offerings[ph] do you have that kind of get more well density if you start drilling multiple benches out of the Three Forks.
I mean can't -- how much I guess of a cost savings do you think that might lead to as you get a little more densely packed on those pads? Andrew we don't expect to have any effect.
If we change a size of a frac it'd just be the amount you pump in each stage and it wouldn't require a material change in the surface storage for any one stage.
As we go to density drilling with the ECO-Pads currently the rigs are set up where we drill 4 wells on a pad.
We feel like we can reconfigure those to drill as many as 8 on a pad if we need to.
But it'll take some reconfiguration of the rig equipment to handle that.
Obviously in that case we would be increasing the pad for the number of wells but disproportionate to the number of wells.
You're not doubling the pad size to get that.
So that will be out in the future as we start going through and harvesting with those rigs.
We're currently I think in next year's plan we're going to have 4 to 5 rigs running ECO-Pads.
The rest of the fleet's going to be still pretty well on a single well issue working acreage that is not currently held by production but in proven areas.
So we're pretty excited about that.
And I think the ECO-Pad drilling I don't think will be a huge change in location size.
If we should -- hopefully we can come up with frac designs where we can tie more of the Three Forks resource goal that we're -- we just took our first step into learning what its potential is.
I mean we've very excited with this point but once we see -- this data point but once we see a few more data points and a bit more of our design results as the completion guys change their designs and work with that it's all upside.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I guess I'll sneak one last one in here.
What recovery factor are you -- do you initially think works for the Bakken and Three Forks? Probably in the 5% to 8% recovery factor something in that.
So it's fairly low.
It's a real real low perm low porosity rock.
And we just don't get a lot of the oil in plays out.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I've I heard I guess a 4% I think was yesterday's at Eagle Ford I think? So kind of -- just still a lot of room then for downspacing and additional technologies.
And our next question comes from the line of Dick Kenvic [ph] from Keeley Asset Management.
Clarify it for me.
Are those 4 benches part of the Three Forks/Sanish? Yes.
They're...
[indiscernible] Oh they are? Okay.
So you've been just drilling in the first bench? Is that where the production has been in the Three Forks/Sanish? You bet.
Dick this is Jack Stark and I just wanted to clarify.
The Sanish is a real localized term that really should go away.
It was a -- back early on in the basin a big [ph] were drilling into the Three Forks are really drilling deeper.
But they would run into occasionally a little localized silty development called -- that they ultimately called the Sanish right at the top of the Three Forks.
All right? So it really is -- really come and go.
It doesn't develop a lot.
And so what we see out here is just that we've seen these 4 benches from the core work we've done and these 4 benches are say on average around 50-foot thick with about half of that being dolomitic okay? And...
Half of it being what? About half of it being dolomitic.
In other words reservoir-quality rock.
But when I say quality it's low quality because it's very tight rock.
Okay? But it is reservoir rock in this Bakken petroleum system.
And so yes all 4 of them are part of the Three Forks.
And keep in mind the Three Forks does get upwards of 270 foot thick in the basin.
So we're talking about a good-sized interval out here of really new appreciated reservoir potential out in the Williston Basin.
I mean this is a game changer for the Three Forks and it just adds a lot of upside to the Three Forks that we did not previously appreciate.
Yes.
Would it ever be possible to drill and complete in all 3 or 4 benches? Well it would -- I think you're talking about mechanically and it certainly is.
We've seen people try to double up and complete the middle Bakken and the Three Forks as well in one well.
We don't believe that's cost-effective.
We think there's other ways to achieve the results particularly through the Three Forks perhaps.
And we'd probably still see additional wellbores in the middle Bakken separate from the Three Forks.
Ladies and gentleman I'd now like to hand the call back to Mr.
Hamm.
Please go ahead.
Thank you very much and thanks for all the interest this morning and joining us.
As they're saying in our business the great oilfields keep getting better and we're certainly seeing that with the Bakken we have several instances throughout and to a same instance in the Woodford as we go forward.
I would say that as we see the switch due to value the switch on U.S.
rigs from oil -- from natural gas to oil we're approaching 60% of the rigs now working for oil compared to 15% earlier and seeing gas stand down to about -- looks like it's going to 40% or less of the working U.S.
rigs domestically.
Eventually we should be affecting natural gas prices.
Nothing stays the same forever.
So I didn't say anything about natural gas prices earlier but certainly down the road we should see those change as we go forward.
So thank you very much.
We've enjoyed visiting with everybody this morning.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes your conference call for today.
Thank you for joining us and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today's call will include projections assumptions and guidance that all are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this morning's call followed by Jack Stark Senior Vice President for Exploration and Jeffery Hume President and COO.
After their remarks we will have a question-and-answer period.
Other members of management are available to answer your questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Continental's fourth quarter earnings call.
You probably heard me say that Hegler [ph] oil play has just keep getting better.
That's certainly true with the Bakken.
Again there's only one Bakken it's a world-class oil play certainly without April [ph] in the United States in the last 50 years and it just keeps getting bigger and better and we'll talk about that some today.
I can say the same for Continental Resources.
Last night we reported record fourth quarter 2011 results.
We entered 2012 with tremendous production growth momentum and EBITDAX growth momentum and the numbers say it all.
We increased fourth quarter EBITDAX year-over-year by 86% to $412 million.
Full year EBITDAX was $1.3 billion a 61% increase.
Production was 75 219 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the fourth quarter 57% higher than the fourth quarter 2010 72% of this production was crude oil.
In January 2012 we produced 84 200 barrels per day.
Full year 2011 production was 43% higher than the total for 2010.
Again crude oil not crude oil and liquids just crude oil was 73% of our 2011 production.
If we reported combined liquids that amount would be much higher due to our 1 500-plus Btu gas stream in the Bakken.
Mainly due to an unrealized mark-to-market loss on derivatives we reported a net loss of $112 million or $0.62 per diluted share for fourth quarter 2011.
Our clean net income of $0.88 per share for the fourth quarter when you back out the noncash derivatives loss property impairment charge and a small gain on the sale of properties.
Clean net income of $0.88 per share is $0.11 above this pre-consensus number.
For the year we reported net income of $429 million or $2.41 per diluted share.
Again the clean net income number would be $2.70 per share $0.29 higher after back half noncash derivatives again a gain on sale of assets and a property impairment charge.
These are simply an outstanding operating and financial results.
Continental clearly has world-class asset positions in the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford and we're delivering world-class operating results to match.
I can't tell you how proud I am of the entire Continental team of employees and the results they're achieving.
As a result of their achievements yesterday we revised 2012 production growth guidance to a higher range of 37% to 40% and this is without an increase in drilling capital expenditures.
How is this possible? To simply put and Jeff will expand on this later our well results were stronger than expected in new expansion areas in the Bakken and in the Anadarko Woodford.
When we developed our regional [ph] 2012 drilling plan we've projected results on a risk basis in new and proven areas west of the North Cana in North Dakota and the southernmost section of the Southeast Cana the Oklahoma Anadarko Woodford and the oil wind of the Northwest Cana.
In these unproven areas it makes sense to send an explorer for wells in these areas might not consistently match the productivity of wells across the play where we have extensive well control.
Now we know.
These wells and the expansion areas are as strong or stronger than typical wells in established areas where we've done much more drilling.
So based on approximately the same 2012 drilling investment and expected well count we plan to grow production as much as 40% this year.
We're placed to an interesting question that would've been asked by more than 2 investors in recent months.
How is Continental growing and operating at such a high level when other operations especially in the Bakken are challenged with several infrastructure constraints? And it's a great question.
First Continental's focused on a world-class operation by a world-class team.
We're committed to being the best most efficient operator in the Bakken Anadarko Woodford and oil plays.
It starts with the people we believe we have the most capable professional teams and they certainly have a great depth of experience with older hands having operated in this place for decades.
Certainly we face challenges just like everybody else.
And we've basically seen it all over the years and we've learned to anticipate future needs as drilling activity ramps up and as the infrastructure capacity is strained and when harsh weather conditions affect how we can operate.
With the benefit of our experience and talent we're always planning ahead and anticipating challenges.
Based on our drilling plan for instance we know statistically how many wells will need servicing throughout the year and we plan accordingly to have work on the rigs available when we need them.
Having such a large acreage position we can move contractor rigs around as they are needed in different counties like we did last year when some of the areas were still wet.
Given our reputation and the fact that we have the largest drilling program and acreage position in the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford we are drilling and service contractors lined up to work with us and men who are always wanting to lease with us to help us achieve mutual goals.
They know we will be in the play for decades.
We are the operator of choice and we work directly with midstream pipeline and railing companies so they are ready for Continental's growth as it continues to accelerate.
Sure there are always pinch points and they constantly change that our team focus on managing those change -- changes as they evolve and that production growth and financial results reflect their success.
An interesting quarter to this today is how the teams are growing -- or move in Oklahoma City when the process will be finished in a few months has opened the floodgates of professionals who want to be a part of the Continental organization and what we're doing especially in the Bakken and the Anadarko Woodford.
We're adding people especially young professionals who will drive this company forward for many decades.
The second trait that sets Continental apart is that we're focused on just a few strategic assets the Bakken.
It is of course crude oil and they have a leading position in this massive resource play and in an expanding acreage inventory we can drill for decades.
And then the Anadarko Woodford again more crude oil and natural gas liquids and a leading -- and we have a leading position in a massive resource play again and expanding acreage inventory we can drill again for decades.
As a premier exploration and development shop we get in early the further geologic concept and then we capitalize on technology advances to improve well economics as the play goes in large-scale development.
We're still growing our position in these plays.
As you've seen from recent acquisitions 35 000 net acres were stepped up in February right in the heart of the Bakken and we expect further consolidation.
Third our strategic focus carries over into how we operate and manage our balance sheet.
We are a growth company but we're not going to over leverage ourselves.
We continued layering along the gas hedges so we can maintain our growth momentum and our capital program.
We don't clutter up our financial structure with complicated arrangements that might hamper our ability to grow and create value year-after-year.
We don't branch out into other business we are pure and independent E&amp;P operator and we're focused on oil and we keep it simple.
Finally we're always looking for emerging opportunities and challenges.
As we noted we're running significantly ahead of a 5-year growth plan that we announced in October 2010.
We're developing a new 5-year growth plan and a 10-year growth plan to share with investors our vision of Continental's bay creation potential based on our current assets over the next decade.
We plan to announce our new growth plans no later than our 2012 Investors Day which will be in Oklahoma City on October 9.
We may have to roll out the plans in summer.
Next we're preparing the chips and the full development node in the Bakken.
We expect to have 12 to 14 ECO-Pad rigs drilling on multi-well size by year-end 2012.
By year end 2013 we plan to have as many as 20 ECO-Pad rigs at which time we will have our current acreage help our production and we'll be in full developmental mode.
This will have a major positive impact on well economics production growth and improved reserves growth.
We're working with the vendors to assure that gathering systems pipelines and rail facilities are ready for Continental operating at a much higher level in 2 years.
So we're always looking many years down the road for new opportunities with the quality of Continental's assets brought up to new opportunities emerge because of advances in drilling and completion technology.
The latest game changer is the Three Forks lower ventures.
We've literally found an additional oil saturated reservoir in the Bakken that again makes this world-class oil play bigger and better.
I'd like to turn over the call to Jack Stark to give you a brief update on work with these lower Three Forks ventures.
Jack? Thank you Harold and good morning everyone.
As you may recall Continental acquired 6 cores of the entire Three Forks formation in 2011 and discovered they were up to 3 additional layers where benches of low bearing dolomite within the lower Three Forks formation.
The significance of this discovery and what makes us such a game changer as Harold mentioned is that the volume of oil in plays for the field almost doubles with this added reservoirs.
Based on our estimates the oil in plays now stands at around 900 billion barrels of oil versus our previous estimate of 577 billion barrels of oil.
This in turn should ultimately translate into more technically recoverable reserves for the field.
Just how much more remains to be seen but we have taken the first step to demonstrate through the bid that the second bench of the Three Forks is a commercial reservoir.
As you may recall the Charlotte 2-22H was our first test of the second bench of the Three Forks and it completed pooling 1 396 barrels of oil equivalent per day during its first 24-hour test.
The Charlotte has produced a total of 45 000 barrels of oil equivalent since going online 3 months ago and is performing in line with a typical first bench producer.
Also reported last month we participated in another segment test called the Sunline 11-1TF-2SH.
The Sunline is located 20 miles east of the Charlotte and produce at a rate of 1 023 barrels of oil equivalent day in its initial 24-hour test.
During its first 55 days online the Sunline has produced 34 000 barrels of oil and like the Charlotte it's performing in line with the typical first bench Three Forks producer.
During 2012 we will continue our pioneering work with the Three Forks reservoirs.
We plan to drill 2 to 3 additional second bench tests and are also lining up our first test of the third or fourth bench that should spread around midyear.
We also plan to cut additional strategic play scorers to further evaluate the Three Forks reservoirs.
We're using the core and metaphysical data to develop models with the help of a major service provider to better understand how we can contain fracs within a single zone or tie multiple zones together to modify fracture stimulation technology.
So stay tuned as we continue to expand and extend in our understanding of this world-class oilfield.
Now I'll turn it over to Jeff for some additional highlights.
Thanks Jack.
I'd like to mention just a few more highlights before we begin the Q&amp;A.
First let's talk about the wells we're drilling in the extension areas of the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford and the increase in production guidance.
As Harold noted we increased 2012 production guidance to the range of 37% to 40% growth with no increase in CapEx let's walk through the process.
In the past 6 months we've been drilling in a Bakken extension area west of the Anadarko in North Dakota and in Anadarko Woodford where we are working further south in the Southeast Cana and the northern Blaine County in the Northeast Cana where we are in the oil window.
Because we had so little well history in these extension areas it makes sense to apply a risk factor or to discount initial production expectations for wells to be drilled in and out.
Until we have actual results which helps to tune our model.
After completion -- completing numerous wells in these areas we determined that derisking was unnecessary because the extension wells were just as strong as those in our established areas in the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford.
Therefore we trued up our production model for 2012.
That's a significant amount of new production with the same number of wells without any new CapEx.
Obviously it moved the needle on 2012 production growth.
If that didn't sufficiently clarify our modeling process I'll be glad to answer questions about it in a minute.
Now let's look forward to our 2012 and 2013 operations.
First the Bakken.
In the next 24 months you will see us transition from drilling mainly single wells to drilling mainly ECO-Pad projects 4 or more wells per pad.
These -- the key here is that we expect to have almost all of our Bakken property held by production by late 2013.
We currently have 7 ECO-Pad capable rigs drilling these are hydraulic walking rigs in the play but only 3 of them are drilling ECO-Pads at this time.
The rest will transition to ECO-Pad drilling by year-end 2012 and in that time we will also add more ECO-Pad rigs ending the year with 12 to 14 in a fleet By year-end 2013 we expect to have as many as 20 ECO-Pad rigs in operation drilling our multiple well pads.
By then we will be in full development mode in the play basically running a manufacturing operation.
In addition to the cost efficiencies we've already seen this level of ECO-Pad drilling will present new opportunities.
One concept that we're working on is drilling a string of adjacent stacked 1280-acre spacing units.
Think of 3 1280 per spacing unit side-by-side by side with 3 more stacked on the top of them.
Three north units share a common with the 3 south units.
And we've put one ECO-Pad rig on the west edge of that boundary so we can drill 2 Wells north and 2 wells south in the first pair of spacing units.
When it's finished with those 4 Wells we move the rig a quarter of a mile east to the next pad and do it again.
We keep repeating that pattern over a distance of 3 miles until all 6 spacing units are drilled.
This will be an incredibly efficient way to drill 48 wells and 6 spacing units with minimal rig moves and a concentration of completion services in a relatively typically small area.
We will also minimize the surface impact on the land.
Anyway that's one concept we're working on in the Bakken in terms of drilling to make our operations even more efficient over the next few years.
Next let's talk about field gathering and transportation infrastructure in the Bakken.
Significant process has been made in the last 4 months getting gas gathering lines new processing facilities a total of 160 million cubic feet of new plant capacity opened up in January and water and oil gathering lines of built in the field.
Along with improving operating efficiency this gets the trucks off the road which is a clear priority in North Dakota.
Everyone including local communities benefit from this.
In terms of long-distance transport we are increasingly relying on rail to deliver oil to the Gulf East and West Coast where our Bakken oil competes with waterborne barrels.
Today roughly 1/2 of our Bakken oil is railed and most of that goes to the Gulf Coast where it is processed relative to Louisiana Light Sweet.
A quarter of our Bakken oil is [indiscernible] Minnesota and 1/4 goes to Guernsey Wyoming.
That's the split on our Bakken barrels.
The paths are fold so obviously all future production growth will be shipped by rail.
Our Red River unit oil is pathed to Guernsey.
We're moving all of our barrels out of the basin today without a problem where we're also constructing additional storage capacity for our protection for capacity disruptions in the future.
For any investors who are new to our story Continental is different from some operators in that they would mark their own core and we have very good communication with our refinery customers.
So in early February we were not as negatively affected by the differential blowout than some of our peers.
Finally before closing let me add a few observations about the Anadarko Woodford.
Our Woodford team has done an excellent job to shift drilling rigs into oil and high liquids areas where they can generate returns that are competitive with the Bakken.
Within 3 months our 10 operating rigs in the Anadarko Woodford will be concentrated with 8 rigs in the Southeast Cana and the other 2 in the Northwest Cana drilling an oil window in northern Blaine and Dewey Counties.
In the Southeast Cana we've announced 3 wells: the Lambakis the Lyle and the [indiscernible] that are excellent wells with strong oil and high liquids gas production.
We've leased about 25 000 net acres in the area where these 3 wells are located and we're drilling a very thick Woodford zone here about 250 feet thick.
It's an excellent area with a great deal of production growth potential with high-value wells.
In the Northwest Cana we completed our Toms 1-21-XH well the first Cushing well drilled in Oklahoma and the results we're outstanding as we announced last night.
It filled 1 268 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the initial 1-day test and 7 -- or 6% of that was oil.
The Toms is a 9 500-foot lateral that was completed in 26 stages.
We're already drilling additional Cushing at wells and look forward to discussing them on future calls.
Hope that gives you a better idea of where we're headed over the next year or 2.
I'll close by pointing out a few things that apply to our overall operating strategy.
First we're focused on oil and high liquids opportunities in the Bakken and the Anadarko Woodford where we generate superior returns.
Second we're focused on expanding our strategic footprint in these premier plays.
And third we're intently focused on the transition to ECO-Pad drilling and other opportunities to improve our efficiency and therefore the cash margins for our operations.
With that let's start the Q&amp;A period.
[Operator Instructions] We do have your first question from Noel Parks of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> I got on a little late.
Did you talk about the Bakken acquisition that you did and just a little bit about how that came about and the timing? And also I was wondering what the proved reserves amount acquired wasn't and how many wells make up the 1 000-barrel a day’s production? The package that we bought was publicly marketed and we participated in that and we're the successful bidder in that.
We don't name companies that we buy from that's just a policy that we do.
The production came from predominantly established wells.
Most of that acreage was held by production.
I don't have a real accurate count on top of my head but I think it was in the 40 to 60 range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And as far as that acquisition was it properties or a company acquisition? I was wondering if you took on any debt from the seller.
It was property acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just on the Cana Woodford could you talk a bit more about your thoughts on some of the oil content in the northwest versus the southeast? I realized the big Tom's well was a dual lateral that it was a lateral area -- but for the southeast where you drilled it actually was a little bit less oily than I was thinking I think it was the one to the far south part of the area so can you just update us on that? Sure Noel.
In the Northwest Cana as we move to the north and northeast along there is -- mainland and northern Blaine County we're just seeing excellent results.
The first well that we drilled in there was the Petty and we followed it with the Toms well where significant acreage block in that area we just have -- we're just getting farther up depth into that oil window and have obviously enough permeability to produce it in that area.
So that's very good news.
To the Southeast we're still on that gas condensate window and moving to the up dip area we'll probably see more oil.
To the north in say Central Grady County around Chickasha Oklahoma we've drilled a couple of wells that are very very strong oil wells and have a higher content.
One thing I'll point out though is all the gas in that area is over 1 300 Btu so it is very high on liquids that we're getting plus what we're recording which is well ahead oil and condensate.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the Toms again how much was it? And what do you think a development of the cross unit might look like? And sort of a what -- first-month production would make you have a 30-day rate? And when you look at the pressures and choke how those compares to say a typical Bakken completion? I would say on the 30-day rate we're looking at on average of about 600 barrels a day and about 2.5 million cubic feet a day and that is a rich gas up there in that oil window too and about the 1 300 Btu so we're really excited about that.
Actually you're going to see a little higher still a little bit higher GOR in -- than most of the core Bakken areas we do see some of the Bakken areas have higher GOR so it's not going to be radically different than the Bakken to be honest with you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the well cost? Well cost on the Toms was $12 million.
Remember this is a 26-stage job and so it's -- it is a little higher than we've seen in a Bakken.
But bear in mind this is our first one done in the state.
And actually the drilling time was -- compared to a Bakken well is longer we were 38 days which are still past our expectations by about 11 days so I'm really excited about that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Is that just hard rock country? Much harder drilling than for the Bakken.
Yes sir.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so in the Bakken any update on well cost? And curious as you sort of go into outright ECO-Pad drilling what you might see in terms of spud-to-sales and average Bakken well costs? So -- we're still in that average of around $8.2 million we're running on the low side of $6.9 million to a high of around $9.8 million depending on where we're at in the play the hydraulic horsepower required to frac the wells and the drilling time.
So that's kind of the range but we're still in that $8.2 million range.
We're seeing prices stabilize pretty well we still have some upward pressure in some items.
We're seeing some downward pressure in others but right now we're seeing it pretty well-stabilized right in there and we feel like we could continue with that.
The ECO-Pad wells have been giving us a true 10% cost reduction.
We think we can expand on that in the future as we go into the development that I described earlier because obviously we can put pipelines in there to deliver water and remove frac water from herein not have to truck that and some other efficiencies that we'll gain when we can do that.
The time to drill we've -- we have drilled these wells a 4-well pad in the 85 to 110-day range.
So following that we're looking at -- or we can immediately start frac-ing because these well packers on the initial wells drilled were set so it's just a matter of days of getting the rig off planning the location up getting the frac equipment in we began frac-ing.
Then we'll sit there for at least 2 weeks of frac-ing doing that followed by a couple of weeks of cleanup and putting the wells on.
So altogether you're looking at 120 to 160 days of from when you start or when you have all the wells producing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the transportation cost Jeff is all of that netted against your realizations? It is.
Our net that we show is at the wellhead net of everything so it includes trucking or piping from the wellhead to the nearest rail or regional pipeline terminal then deposit it to a market -- get it to our market and then the discount that we take at the market or our bonus that we get at the market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the -- given your rapid growth I guess the marginal supply going to rail could you further split what you think the rail takeaway might look like this year? How much of it goes to Gulf coast versus other ports of call? Well we don't have -- we're not -- don't have a forecast on that.
We're contracted with various shipping suppliers rail supplies and we're going to various markets and there is flexibility in that.
And as we grow we're going to continue to find the best markets we can.
That's it.
I guess the one upside of rail capacity is one it can quickly grow to meet your needs and it can go to the market that brings the highest price.
So it's a -- we work that every month we maximize value to the wellhead from finding the best markets and getting in to those markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final one for me.
So in these acquisitions and I think I've always seen you guys as extremely deliberate and disciplined in making deals.
I was curious if -- if it's -- what sort of advantage you now bring to the table in bidding for these packages versus the competitor? I mean is it just that you have these seamless operations and sort of how or if you are looking at these acquisitions differently? No these are -- everything we've done is a strategic acquisition.
It adds Bakken acreage to an area where we are the lowest cost developer of that.
And I believe that puts us in a unique position to -- we're involved with every opportunity out there.
We don't obtain every package that's out there but we do compete on those.
And so the Bakken's in consolidation mode and you're going to see just a few operators end up controlling the Bakken.
And I think we've set ourselves above everyone else on being able to control and handle it.
And even in times right now we're hearing a lot of other operators having difficulties.
We're having the same difficulties we're just way ahead of them on planning and we're going to try to continue with that.
And I'm not going to tell you there's not pinch points it's tough out there.
It's tough to do but we manage it we take great pride in that.
We've got the people and I think that's the key thing.
We've got the people with the get-it-done attitude and they go for it.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the improvement of productivity from the step up [ph] Bakken wells? And can we assume that kind of an overall Bakken EUR is going to move higher? Well I wouldn't say that yet.
What we have -- we built our models based on our various areas we provide the market with an average across those areas and that's currently 603 in Boe.
We're staying with at this time.
You'll recall that in August we announced that we're going to 30 stages our base and -- 30-stage fracs at our base.
It took a few months to get some of those wells in place.
We've frac-ed several of those now they're coming on.
We're seeing real strong IPs on those.
As you would expect we got more stages.
We're going to be looking at that and see how the curves line out.
And probably midsummer we'll be reviewing where we're at on the overall model.
Now the expansion areas as I've described before we took that model and put a risking factor on it because they were unknown.
We didn't know if they're going to be in the 500 000 range or the 700 000 range.
We didn't know how it's going to be.
And what they're proving out to be is they're falling in the line with what we have throughout the rest of the area.
So area up and down the anacline is -- looks very similar to what we're finding now at west of the anacline.
And so what we call our Williston Prospect going up to the Montana State line both in Mackenzie and Williams County.
So we're seeing a good area there that's increasing in productivity.
And as we continue to work with frac technology and completion technology which is -- we're still in the early innings of that.
And as we get to where we're drilling more densely in one area we'll be able to do more tuning of that because right now it's kind of a standard design that we're applying almost everywhere.
But once we start developing in the various areas of the field we'll be able to tune for that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And Jack mentioned this earlier but how has that second -- the weather showed in the second bench of the Three Forks? How long has that been online? And I'm assuming it's a similar EUR as your average Bakken well? Is that accurate? Yes Brian.
It's really been great we -- it's been on for 3 months and as I said it's produced about 45 000 barrels of oil equivalent and it's just lining up very nicely we're very pleased with it.
And the Sunline well which has been on for about 55 days is actually outperforming the Charlotte wells.
So we have 2 very good producers and the key thing there is that not only do we have 2 producers but these are 20 miles apart.
And so these are the first 2 tests in that basin they are 20 miles apart.
And to get that kind of repeatability over a 20-mile stretch is pretty impressive.
So we're really encouraged with what we've got there and think of those very well for the second batch.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one final question.
I mean obviously production has been extremely strong.
And how do you look at managing your capital spend and kind of managing that production growth kind of on a corporate level? Because it seems like the growth could be much much higher just all depending on the CapEx and -- how do you all look at that? Well we try to keep our debt metrics in line as Harold stated and we'll continue to do that.
But as we grow our base grows we'll be able to lean in into our borrowings.
There's many other things we can do.
There's assets that we can sell that are mature now we'll be looking at that there's a potential for us to be doing.
So there's many opportunities to do that.
What we're seeing right now we're very concentrated on improving our performance and improving the turnaround of our dollars in these current properties.
And running it about ideal rate for the infrastructure that we have in place right now we'll be able to I believe really accelerate this starting in 2013.
As we go to the ECO-Pad development end in the Bakken we're going to be able to get more wells done with fewer dollars and we're going to be accelerating just through that process and we'd be able to add rigs more than likely because of that without getting out of our alignment.
So it's that balance that we have with discipline -- of disciplining our spend with what we do.
An example of that is what we did with our Anadarko team.
We set them down in the last -- in the fourth quarter last year just about when did our budget and decided those dollars probably need to go somewhere else if we continue to be in that gas area of Anadarko Woodford.
That team answered the call the testing that they've been doing in the Southeast Cana and that one on the north -- northern edge of the Northwest Cana proved that we have enough oil in the system to keep the rigs there to compete with the rates of return that we're seeing in the Bakken.
And so we've transitioned to that very rapidly to do that so we're very cognizant of putting our dollars where the highest rate of return depending on the commodity price and the cost of development at that time and we'll continue with that.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner from Macquarie Capital.
Just wanted to -- I appreciate the color on the improvement in the well performance in the new areas and how that's affected the outlook for 2012 growth.
How do we think about -- there was a quite a bit of spending in the fourth quarter last year a little over $800 million and only a $1.75 billion budget for '12.
Were there any items that affected the fourth quarter spend rate that we should expect to not see going forward? Or I guess can you just kind of walk us through what might have… Yes absolutely.
If you recall we added extra rigs in the Anadarko.
And we had a huge inventory of wells to be completed in the Anadarko Woodford larger than normal.
And so we came in to the fourth quarter and we're going to come in to the first quarter fairly hot on completions in the Anadarko Woodford.
Five of those rigs are going away where I think 3 of those have already been released.
We'll have 2 more leaving fairly soon.
And so that took that CapEx up higher.
The other thing is we were building lots of locations for the winter operation and all those dollars show up both of those show up in the fourth quarter because we really go after building locations in October November and early December before the frost hits in the ground.
So we front end load quite a bit for the next year and done that.
In addition to that we had some acquisitions that we paid for during that period also so that all put into there.
So those 3 items will not be repeating after we get out of the say into the second quarter with a recap coming down and completions will be less and that will line it back out.
So it's all attuned in there.
So it sounds like the first quarter might be running higher than the annualized rate then we'll start seeing it level out the second third and fourth? Well we expect it to continue to grow some but right now we are rotating some rigs out of Bakken.
We're currently down to 22 for a few weeks here and reason for that is we've got some refurbished rigs that with walking mechanisms that will be coming out within the next couple of weeks.
And the last rig will -- we released a couple of rigs here in the last few weeks to go in to be refurbished.
So part of the rig upgrade and modification to walking rigs is going to probably slow down our Bakken completions a little bit into the second quarter just due to the -- don't have the number of rigs running but then it will pick back up and accelerate again into the second quarter or actually in the third quarter completions.
Okay.
And one other thing I wanted to clarify it sounds tells '13 is probably the period of time where we'll start to see an acceleration.
But I think in the past you've made some comments that as long as oil prices were above 95 you would consider perhaps increasing CapEx.
Is that still possible for this year or? No certainly.
What we'll do every year is midyear we'll review for commodity prices we're at where we're running on spend rates see where the market's at.
And if we can keep ourselves in line with cash flow and accelerate we'll readily do that and we have -- that's the beauty of it we've got the inventory to do it and manpower in place to do that.
So we'll make that decision in midyear and if there's a very good possibility on that.
But back to your point on accelerating I mean we're going to have 40% growth this year what are we expecting? No certainly that's a very stout growth rate.
I guess it was based off better productivity of wells and account that hasn't changed.
Certainly.
No -- but I think we can maintain very high growth rates out in the future with what -- with the cash flow we have available and continue to accelerate.
With the efficiencies we think we'll gain as we go to ECO-Pad drilling the second half of this year and into 2013 I think we'll really be able to maintain that.
And as you know the larger we get the harder it is to have -- maintain that growth rate.
But we feel that we can do it with our inventory.
Okay.
Care to identify which non-core assets could be lined up for sale at this point? No.
We've got several of them and we don't have any particular in mind.
Okay.
And then I guess looking out with incremental barrels targeting access to increasing rail you mentioned that some of those agreements were locked up on a long term -- what sort of visibility do you have on access to the rail? Rail access? Well we work with -- as I said we work with several rail transportation companies and we're working with several markets at the other end.
And we have in place capacity for the future.
And as we grow our production we tune that as we go obviously.
We build models of what we think we'll be producing and then as well performance and operational performance dictate we'll either sell that down or speed that up.
Right now we have adequate capacity in front of us we have some that are short-term contracts and orders that are longer-term it's a mix.
And I guess just -- others have commented on perhaps some challenges on having access to the rail cars and maybe some loading and unloading facilities that are not running at optimum rates you've talked during your comments that you're ahead of others in the industry but just kind of how do you see the market right now? And how could some of these recent challenges get worked through over the next couple of months? Well we just see more facility.
When we have everything covered now we have our future growth well-covered on both ends on the loading and unloading and rail cars.
We see additional capacity coming on we have people coming in to see us every week that we have been thought about that has capacity and are building facilities to unload at the other end.
So I think there's going to be more than adequate rail capacity to handle what we're doing.
We -- right now we've got everything in place that we need for our current projection and then we work to tune that up and down as production ebbs and flows.
But right now we're running ahead of schedule and we've added some colors for that and we're on top of that.
We're also as I mentioned building some storage tanks in the field to take care of any interruptions that might occur.
We've got tankage that we are building ourselves that are along both a combination of the rail line and regional pipelines and we're also working with vendors that have storage on the rail side.
So we're going to have we feel uninterrupted flow to the market through both pipe and rail as we continue to grow production in the Bakken.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You may have answered this already Jeff a little bit but just wanted to be clear you've got the 7 rigs that can walk for your ECO-Pads now you want to get to -- I think you said 12 or 13 by year end.
Will be adding those rigs or will you be refurbing them? Or are you just switching those out? Just trying to get a sense of where the rig count's moving as we go throughout the year? Well we'll be doing both.
We've released a couple of rigs that were poor performers and we've replaced those with some walking rigs so we're bringing in some new ones and we'll also do in the rotations.
So the answer to your question is we're doing both.
We're going to have on average of a 24-rig program we'll get as low as 22 where we're at now we'll probably get a high for a while at 26 maybe 27 rigs.
But on average we're going to hit a 24-rig average for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly in the Cana Woodford given the liquids cut there can you talk about processing capacity and how you're handling that? If you mentioned it earlier I apologize.
No we have not discussed that.
We are working with -- right now in Northwest Cana we've contracted with one large entity that has plenty of processing capacity and very strong market.
In the Southeast Cana we head out to bid at this time for the gas process in that area knowing that we're accelerating there we'll be letting that bid in the next few weeks.
All of the participants in that are going -- have plenty of processing capacity in place and the ability to drill into it faster than we're going to be developing our product.
They have very strong pricing.
Bulk of that production is going to have Bellevue pricing on it.
Pipelines will be opening up within 1 year or so to get more product to the Gulf Coast and we feel very very good about what we're doing there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then looking at your 40% production growth how should we think about that mix? Is that going to remain kind in the same that it has been? Is there any kind of shift to that? No it's like the mix -- it'd probably be a little bit heavier on the oil because of moving the rigs in Anadarko.
We had quite a bit of gas come on and -- from the Northwest Cana this past year.
With Bakken we're going to be about the same growth there.
We had -- we actually had a little bit of gas production come on January February from being constrained on processing in the Bakken but that's in the mix now.
So I think overall the mix will be leaning a little bit more towards the oil side.
And we don't tally up NGLs.
We show it as gas so it's billow oil or forest crude oil.
And probably a little richer on the NGL where we're drilling.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more if I might it's a little bit more micro.
When we look at the Bakken can you talk about relative to the number of wells what percent of those you're tying to gas end versus flaring things like that? I don't have a count right now but there's very few wells flaring today.
And those are mainly in those extension areas where we don’t have pipeline capacity built yet but they are building it.
That's one thing that's we've been blessed with this winter we have not had a hard winter in North Dakota so the infrastructure buildout is really going well.
We have a few areas that they are just having some difficulty getting to from topography but that is being worked out and we're getting there.
But whenever you do an expansion of an area with these wells first thing you have to do is one prove that you're going to have adequate production to justify that larger pipes and then get the pipes built.
In all of these areas we are underway we've got our supply or our process and our midstream companies are laying those lines now or have plans to lay those.
So we have very few wells that are flaring and on wells that are flaring we slow down their production and we hold it back.
And so once we get the well cleaned up and some of the frac layered off we'll slow those wells down and minimize that.
So we're managing that very well.
And I feel a bit like by next year this time every well that we drill in North Dakota will immediately be selling gas.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Wylin [ph] from Private Investors.
I'm a private investor and I have a significant amount of my personal walk in your company and I appreciate the opportunity.
But on a day-to-day basis what would you guys say is your largest risk that you guys talk about? Our largest risk? Yes largest risk for this company.
Well that's probably the thing we can't control that's commodity price.
Everything else we control.
We've been controlling it for years and so we concentrate on what we can do.
But we underpin that commodity price with hedging.
And we have a very very good hedging program that underpins that.
So we don't see anything out there that can be real significant.
Outside of just wild government regulation coming out of the blue I don't see anything that big.
Okay.
I'll ask about that.
In the Bloomberg article [indiscernible] it indicated that his relationship when he met the President was a bit generous at best probably I'm just wondering like going forward if you guys continue to have discussions with people in Washington how that relationship goes or if it -- or if there is a relationship? Well we have an excellent relationship in Washington.
And it's very positive and a lot of focus there.
We know exactly where we need to go with domestic energy production and the gains that we've made and very thankful for that.
And obviously the administration so far hadn't done anything hadn't been able to do anything real honest to the industry and that's good.
So we hope that continues.
And your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the -- Jeff the backlog issue Anadarko Woodford so that was in your 10-net row completion number? Right.
That will be the cost.
We have all those wells that we're drilling that we're coming out of completion so you're paying for all of that drilling those 15 rigs in the Anadarko Woodford and we have one in the Arkoma Woodford I didn't mention that's also left the mix.
So we had all of that there was drilling wells and completing wells in the fourth quarter that we'll work out through the first quarter but with all the completions will hit this quarter and then we'll work that down.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What is the current backlog then? And then -- do the same thing apply in the Bakken? Was there a substantial backlog and is that being worked out? No I think the backlog right now in the Anadarko Woodford we currently have approximately 10 Wells waiting to be completed.
And that number will be coming down gradually.
I think normally you're always going to have with the 10-rig program you're always going to have a half dozen-or-so 5 or 6 wells waiting to be completed.
Up in the Bakken that number is probably on the average going to be in the 30 plus or minus 30 to 40 wells.
At some stage you're waiting on completion waiting on to being to be run in the oil cleaned out that sort of thing.
So right now in both of those plays we're pretty much -- our backlog is pretty much what you'd expect on an ongoing basis maybe slightly elevated here.
As Jeff mentioned in the Woodford because we've gone from 15 rigs down to our target of 10.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Okay so yes I guess what I'm trying to understand I guess is backlog is probably not the right word for the Woodford since you'll always have just about as many wells as you have rigs sort of more or less waiting on completions.
So it's basically the change from 15 rigs to 10 rigs that reduces your quarterly run rate on CapEx? I mean that's probably more so than the backlog issue is that? That is correct.
Just what happened we picked up the additional rigs about midyear and so it takes several months to build to get some wells drilled for completion and in that completion lags the drilling dollars and then we released those rigs around the first of the year.
And so we're going to have -- so fourth quarter we have both drilling and completion of that higher account that is going away now.
We'll have completions carry over into the first quarter and then we'll be at a lower run rate for second third and fourth quarter in those areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
That's a much better understanding of it.
And finally your -- sort of your legacy stuff.
What are your latest thoughts on what you think between areas outside of Cana and Bakken can do in 2012? Go up go down stay flat? Well we're seeing the Cedar Hills is actually growing.
The Red River units have grown and that's just a testament to our people and what they're doing and how they're performing.
We have -- we're under water flood with the Cedar Hills unit proper it's got potential for tertiary recovery.
We're studying that we're not announcing anything on that but that's a future opportunity we have there.
We have secondary recovery potential on the Bakken.
If you just go look at the Cedar Hills we drilled those first wells in 1995 and so that was 17 years ago.
It's at its peak today and we've said that for about 10 years it's at this peak today and it just keeps growing because we find that we can drill at a tighter density we can waterflood we can tertiary recovery we keep doing that.
The Bakken is going to prove out to be the same thing and we're not alone out there.
Other operators are announcing that yes that they're going to run on secondary recovery possibly tertiary recovery in the Bakken in certain areas where that maybe.
In other areas like the Niobrara we haven't talked about that much but Niobrara we've identified an oil window.
We have one rig working in there we're getting better results we're climbing that learning curve that we always have to climb in a new play.
We think we have a 25 000 to 30 000 acres in -- within the oil window to develop.
And that's going to be growing and we didn't talk about that much.
We have one rig in there we can quickly accelerate that once we feel comfortable with that play and some of the delineation work we're doing right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when you look at sort of the other things like Cana being probably the more significant plays other mid-continent Gulf coast or the Rockies any specific view on those properties? I think they're going to be pretty well flat without a little loss.
We don't have much on the Gulf coast and we go down there ever year and grow 1 maybe 2 wells and we maintain that flat but it's real small proportion.
Our eastern division maintains a flat production they replace our reserves very readily there that's mostly shallower oil or water clubs we've got a great play going in Michigan up there on that we've got our gas line in place there now so we're able to do some more drilling which we'll probably be doing this summer.
And so we're in a position to grow those oil areas.
Also the others -- Rockies is very flat very stable oil production and without a lot of movement it's probably in the 3% or 4% decline type of its line.
So it's very stable and that's what it looks like.
So that's one of the advantages we have.
We've got a real strong base with low decline that we're building on.
Thank you for your question I'd like now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Well thanks again for joining us today on our fourth quarter conference call everyone.
We delivered exceptional results and we're poised for even better results in 2012 and 2013.
We're aware and appreciate that Continental plays at a premium valuation compared to almost all of its peers as it should because of the plays we're in.
I hope we've demonstrated with our performance that that premium is certainly justified and in fact we have a lot more growth we’d like [ph] to deliver for many many years it just keeps getting better.
Please mark your calendars for our 2012 Investor Day which will be here in Oklahoma City on October 9 if you haven't reserved the date already.
We'll be disseminating details on the event very soon and we hope you will join us for a very informative day.
Thanks again everyone.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That concludes your conference call for today.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining.
Have a very good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today's call will include projections assumptions and guidance that are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this morning's call; followed by CFO John Hart; and President and COO Jeff Hume.
After their remarks we will have a question-and-answer period.
Other members of management are available to answer your question.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Please sir.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Continental's first quarter earnings call from our new headquarters here in Oklahoma City.
We began 2012 with tremendous production growth 66% year-over-year.
Last night we announced an excellent first quarter.
We announced a reduction in rig count and an increase in our growth guidance for 2012.
First quarter 2012 production was 85 526 barrels of oil equivalent per day 66% higher than the first quarter of 2011 and 14% higher than the 75 219 Boepd for the fourth quarter of 2011.
We are currently exceeding 91 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day now.
Our strong production growth reflects increases in our major operating areas.
Bakken production increased to 48 024 barrels of oil equivalent per day 88% higher than the first quarter 2011.
Bakken production represented 56% of our total first quarter 2012 production.
North Dakota is the primary driver in our Bakken growth as you saw in our press release last night.
North Dakota Bakken production was 41 895 Boepd in the first quarter of 2012 more than double the production in the first quarter last year.
Montana Bakken production increased 16% in the first quarter 2012 compared with the first quarter of 2011.
The company's Anadarko Woodford production was 12 826 Boepd almost 5x higher than production in the first quarter 2011.
As we've reported over the last 4 months we've had a succession of strong well results in both the Southeast Cana in Grady County and in the Northwest Cana in Blaine County Oklahoma.
Production in the Red River Units was 10% higher in the first quarter 2012 than it was in the first quarter last year.
Our first quarter production growth was primarily organic through the drill bit.
Three acquisitions have been completed since mid-2011 and we sold our Worland Wyoming properties and associate production in early 2012.
The net combined effect of the acquisition and sale is an increase in production of approximately 800 Boepd going forward.
Of greater significant these acquisitions added 46 000 net acres of core Bakken acreage to our inventory of which 60% is already HBP.
These acquisitions have increased our ownership share in prime areas of the Bakken play effectively increasing our production growth rate without increasing rig activity.
We simply own a greater interest in wells already scheduled for drilling during 2012.
This magnifies the impact of both non-operated and operated well completions.
Finally we're seeing excellent results in terms of faster cycle times on drilling in the Bakken.
We've cut spud-to-spud cycle times by 30% in the last 6 months.
Again this boosts both production results and CapEx spend rate.
Before leaving the subject of production I'd like to note that there were no contribution from Wheatland Oil in the first quarter.
In late March we announced a proposed purchase agreement involving Wheatland which is subject to a shareholder vote later this year.
We filed a preliminary prospectus on April 3 which discussed the details of the proposal.
Given the pending shareholder vote we will not comment today on the Wheatland proposal.
Instead we refer you to the preliminary prospectus for information on the proposal.
Last night we also announced a new capital expenditure budget for 2012 and a new production guidance a growth range of 47% to 50% for the year.
To explain our revised outlook let's go back to last November when we announced our original budget.
At that time we were focused on a number of key issues.
What were they? One oil price.
Prices have remained favorable in the past 6 months and our outlook remains positive although there was a lot of volatility in the first quarter.
Two service costs.
Service costs have held steady and we have seen some softening due to many dry gas rigs being laid down nationwide.
Three operating efficiencies and execution.
We've consistently pointed out our focus on execution and recapturing efficiencies that we enjoyed 3 years ago while we were running fewer rigs.
The operation guys are doing a tremendous job reducing drilling cycle times in the Bakken and we'll have additional opportunities for efficiency gains as we shift to more ECO-Pad drilling in 2013.
Four the infrastructure.
Six months ago everyone recognized North Dakota faced infrastructure challenges not only in terms of gathering systems and pipe and rail transport out of state but in terms of basic city and county infrastructure needs for people: housing roads water treatment plants schools basically all the infrastructure you need for rapidly expanding communities in the northwest part of the state.
This remains a challenge but North Dakota is making rapid progress and the energy industry is doing a great job to help.
My point is since November last year on all these issues: oil price service cost operating environments and infrastructure we've seen significant progress.
As a result today we have an excellent operating and financial environment within which to accelerate the development of Continental's growing Bakken inventory and that is what we're doing.
We've announced a revised CapEx budget of $2.3 billion excluding acreage acquisitions.
We revised our 2012 production growth to a range of 47% to 50%.
We plan to participate in completing 842 gross 300 net wells this year.
Company-operated wells represent 342 gross 240 net wells in the revised plan.
Nearly all of the additional 2012 company-operated wells will be in the Bakken.
Again this represents improved cycle times and increased ownership in wells.
Now a significant expansion of our rig fleet.
We plan to add 1 or 2 more rigs by year end due in part to the acreage that we've acquired as we continue to fill the role of consolidator in the Bakken.
The other key trend to watch is Continental's shift over the next 18 months to more ECO-Pad drilling in North Dakota.
This provides another opportunity for realizing efficiencies with the drilling program.
In a longer-term view we continue to work on a new 5- and 10-year growth targets for Continental.
We plan to roll those out by the time of our 2012 Investor Day which will be here in Oklahoma City on October 9.
Before turning the call over to John and Jeff I'd like to recap the last 6 months and exceptional performance delivered by the Continental teams.
We faced the same challenges as other companies at various times in this growing play towards new trucks completion crews wireline units frac sand rail transport pipe transport gathering systems and all the rest.
It's always changing.
But Continental has succeeded in spite of these challenges.
Our teams have simply done an outstanding job and the results show not only in our production growth and earnings but in the value they have created for the shareholders.
It may seem counterintuitive to many of you.
We dropped rigs and increased production to the extent that we did.
It speaks volume for the strong team effort and the quality of our primary plays.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to John for comments on cash flow net earnings and cash management.
John? Thank you Harold.
Strong cash flow growth was a key first quarter highlight.
We reported EBITDAX of $455 million for the first quarter of 2012 a 69% increase over EBITDAX for the first quarter of 2011.
Please refer to our press release for the company's definition and our reconciliation of EBITDAX to net income.
After accounting for an unrealized mark-to-market loss on derivatives we recorded net income of $69 million or $0.38 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2012.
Net income included a $129 million pretax unrealized loss on mark-to-market derivative instruments a $30 million pretax property impairment charge and a $50 million pretax gain on sale of assets related to our Worland Wyoming divestiture.
Without the combined effects of these noncash items we would have diluted net income of $0.76 per share for the first quarter of 2012.
For the reconciliation of this result to GAAP earnings per share see non-GAAP financial measures adjusted earnings per share at the end of our press release.
There's a table in the press release to reconcile this.
Now let's take a moment to address our capital and funding plans for 2012.
To begin the dramatic increase in our oil-focused production base coupled with strong commodity processes is enabling us to generate higher levels of cash flows available to fund our capital program.
The current increase in our capital budget is consistent and comparable with our announced increase in production guidance.
Incrementally generated cash flows will fund the majority of our increased capital spend to the extent that at the end of 2012 we do not anticipate that our debt metrics will materially differ from historical norms.
We expect them to be relatively consistent with where they're at now.
Continental remains focused on generating long-term sustainable growth while preserving our financial strength and flexibility.
The quality of our credit ratios and leverage levels are key aspects of our strategy that we intend to preserve.
Moody's and Standard &amp; Poor's recently upgraded our corporate credit to one notch below investment grade.
Our goal as a company is to transition Continental to an investment-grade credit.
Continental is a unique and distinct company with clear operating advantages a strong balance sheet and premium assets.
Although we are increasing our level of capital spend it is largely self-funding and focused on long-held organic growth crude oil opportunities.
I believe this along with the remainder of Continental's mission is clearly understandable reasonable and transparent.
With that I'd like to turn it over to Jeff to review our operating results.
Thank you John.
There has been a lot of interest in the last several months about differentials on pipe barrels delivered to Clearbrook Minnesota and Guernsey Wyoming markets and how this market volatility is affecting our net wellhead price realizations.
So let's start today with how the transportation picture is changing gathering systems pipelines and rail.
All of our Red River Unit oil is gathered at the wellhead and piped to Guernsey Wyoming where it is marketed.
Roughly half of our Bakken oil is currently being railed to markets where it is priced against waterborne barrels mainly Brent or Louisiana Light Sweet which has been $17 to $23 higher than WTI during the first quarter of 2012.
Obviously the rail transportation cost is much higher than pipe.
It's been running about $20 to $22 per barrel all-in from the wellhead to the ultimate end market.
But even though the rail transportation cost is higher than pipeline delivery to the coastal markets has provided superior net pricing lately due to the recent high differentials experienced at Clearbrook and Guernsey especially during March and April.
With the pipelines currently at full capacity we anticipate our incremental growth over the next 18 to 24 months will be shipped by rail.
And we're having no issues getting railcars and capacity.
We reported last night an average oil differential for the first quarter of 2012 of $12.27 per barrel below WTI which is considerably above our guidance range of $7 to $9 for a year as a whole.
Due to the spikes in oil differentials in early 2012 and continued supply-demand volatility at Clearbrook and Guernsey we now expect average differentials for the year to be in the range of $9 to $11 per barrel.
That's the long-haul transportation picture.
Now let's talk about local gathering systems.
There's been significant progress over the past 6 months in expanding and connecting gathering systems to wells to transport oil natural gas and flow-back water and an expanding gas processing capacity in the Bakken.
As I said earlier 100% of our Red River Units oil is gathered at the wellhead by pipe and shipped to the market.
Today in the Bakken about 25% of our oil is gathered by pipeline at the wellsite which saves us approximately $1.50 per barrel versus trucking cost.
And this local pipeline infrastructure continues to expand rapidly.
We expect about 40% of our Bakken oil will be collected by gathering systems 6 weeks from today.
The remainder of our Bakken oil is trucked to the nearest pipeline or rail loading terminal and we have no long-distance trucking operations going at this time.
Approximately 12% of our current Bakken natural gas production is being flared and that's only because the gathering systems haven't reached our wellsites yet.
This is a much lower percentage than what is being reported by the North Dakota Industrial Commission for the basin as a whole.
So 88% of our national gas production in the Bakken is being gathered and processed which you saw reflected in our oil-gas production mix for the quarter.
And finally water.
Freshwater for drilling and completion operations is trucked to the wellsite in the Bakken and about 30% of our flow-back water is now being shipped by pipe from wells to the nearby disposal facilities.
At this point I'd like to shift gears and talk about key operating themes as we go into mid-2012: execution economics and expansion.
First execution.
We've been intently focused on improving execution to improve well economics.
We've been rotating underperforming rigs to the yard where they have been upgraded with increased horsepower walking hydraulics and other improvements.
The upgraded rigs are then reintegrated into our drilling programs.
We're also improving crew effectiveness through extensive training.
The result is reduced cycle times you saw highlighted in our press release last night.
Second economics.
We've been shifting drilling activity to oil and high-liquids areas where we have the best well economics in the current commodity environment.
This means maintaining our 24-rig program in the Bakken dropping 6 rigs in the Woodford and concentrating our 10 remaining Anadarko Woodford rigs in the high-liquids Southeast Cana and the oil window of the Northwest Cana.
In the Niobrara/DJ Basin we completed the Buchner 1-2 in Weld County Colorado during the first quarter of 2012.
The Buchner produced 910 barrels of oil equivalent per day and that's 90% oil in its initial one-day test period.
We're currently assessing results for our first 9 Niobrara wells and preparing to initiate the second phase for development program.
In Anadarko Woodford we completed our first multiunit well the Tom's 1-21XH in the first quarter and have drilled and completed frac operations on the second multiunit well.
We should have results from that well for you by early summer.
We've demonstrated successfully that the multiunit well approach reduces costs and improves the economics for Anadarko Woodford overall.
Our third key operating theme is expansion of our plays.
We are very pleased with the performance of our first 2 second-bench Three Forks producers the Charlotte 2-22H and the Sunline 11-1.
The Charlotte has produced 64 000 barrels of oil equivalent in 5.5 months and the Sunline has produced 48 000 barrels of oil equivalent in 2.8 months and both wells continue to produce in line with the typical first-bench Three Forks producers.
By year end we plan to drill 8 additional wells to test not only the second bench of the Three Forks but also the third bench as well.
Our first third-bench well will be drilled in the 1 280-acre Charlotte unit.
This well will be located 0.5 mile east of the Charlotte 2-22 second-bench producer and 660 feet east of the Charlotte 1-22 Middle Bakken producer.
In addition to this third-bench test we also plan to drill a first-bench Three Forks well between the 1-22 Middle Bakken well and the 2-22 second Three Forks well.
When finished this will be the first 1 280-acre unit in the play with wells completed in 4 different members of the Bakken petroleum system.
We also have a 320-acre development project underway for the Middle Bakken and first bench of the Three Forks.
The Midnight Run project as it is called consists of 3 Middle Bakken producers and 3 Three Forks producers within one 1 280-acre unit.
The wells in each horizon are spaced 1 320 feet apart with the Middle Bakken wells offset 660 feet from centerlines of the Three Forks.
These wells began producing in the first quarter with average IPs of 1 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day per well.
Interference testing is underway and results will help guide future drilling density for the play.
With that I think we're ready to start the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] And our first question is coming from the line of Eli Kantor from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the Niobrara with the impressive rate from the Bakken area do you plan to resume drilling later this year? And if so how many rigs and wells should we expect? And is that development plan factored into the $2.3 billion budget? Yes Eli we've had the one well program and we released that rig.
It was actually kind of scheduled to go away and we completed the wells and have caught up with that rig now.
It will be coming back and I believe we'll be drilling 3 or 4 wells testing those.
And we're continuing to identify the sweeter areas within that oil window and continue to high-grade our projects.
So for the rest of the year it'll be a one-rig program that will come and go.
And we drill those wells very quickly and it takes longer to complete them than to drill them actually.
So that's kind of how we plan to do it and kind of step into that program.
We're seeing very good results and we think we've identified some things that can improve that and we'll be testing that in the next series of wells.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Further for the Western Colorado it looks like you permitted your first Weld County well.
Can you talk about activity there? How much acreage do you have? Are you guys still leasing? And are you chasing the same Niobrara horizon that you're developing in the DJ Basin? Eli this is Jack.
And we do have plans to drill a well out there.
We are targeting essentially the same equivalent zone in the Niobrara there.
And this section is thicker out there.
It's a little bit different.
It has a little more shale content to it and probably has a little bit more fracture content as well to the economics of the play.
But we see a large petroleum system out there and we've got approximately 20 000 acres in the play right now.
And this will be our first test.
We'll see how things work.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
With regards to the CapEx increase you mentioned in the press release that the incremental operated wells will be largely drilled and completed in the Williston.
Is it safe to assume that incremental non-op activity is also planned for the Bakken? That is correct.
We're seeing the additional rigs coming into the basin are affecting us and we're also -- with acquisitions we've made we enriched our ownership in a lot of the non-op wells.
We're looking at about a 50% higher average ownership on non-op than we had when we set our budget back in November.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one for me.
Just a follow-up on the CapEx.
So you've announced a $550 million increase to the budget which equates to 51 net incremental completions which implies roughly $10.8 million per completion.
I'm just trying to reconcile that $10.8 million per well completion with roughly $7.2 million to $8 million well cost you're seeing in the play.
Sure.
Eli you can't do that math exactly because -- it's close but the number is less than that.
What you have is the second half year will have more and more rigs going to pad drilling and that's going to carry up into next year's cost and that's completions.
But the costs will happen this year for the drilling.
And so we won't -- we're not counting those wells.
The well count you see is when we complete a well not when we spud it.
So it's when we complete a well.
So the well count we'll actually be spudding and drilling more wells than that count.
And that money is being spent -- part of that money is being spent in 2012 that will carry into next year.
So we'll be having more ECO-Pads developing more wells for completion in the first quarter of 2013.
Our next question is coming from the line of Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
This is Joanna for Neal.
Can you tell us just what your appetite with these larger non-operated or operated acreage package is? And then secondly just maybe give us more color on your view of differentials maybe how it goes how it's going to track quarterly.
Well we're obviously participating in all the acreage sales in our key plays mainly the Bakken.
And so we feel like we'll compete with any-size sale in that area.
We're also looking at opportunities in the oil area of the Woodford and other areas in the United States where we have strong oil productions.
So the 2 -- right now we're very concentrate -- very focused on consolidating acreage in the Bakken.
And there's always at any one time multiple packages anywhere from a few thousand acreage to very high numbers of acreage available and we participate in that process to try to -- just to buy that.
[Indiscernible] acreage position? I missed your question.
Could you repeat please? All right.
For my second question can you just tell us about how you're expecting the differentials to track quarterly? Well right now what we're seeing is -- for June we're pricing June as we speak and haven't priced it.
But we're seeing the Clearbrook price back in around the $2 range and coming in.
Out into the future if you look at the future strip Brent and WTI are closing on each other.
We're seeing the differential currently around $14 and by the end of the year at the current strip and it changes every day is down in the $9 range.
And so that's where our strip is between -- or WTI and Brent.
And the differential at hot barrels is coming down.
So I think we'll see a fairly consistent $9 to $10 range.
It could improve.
There's room for improvement there.
And we'll just have to see where the market is.
But as we said in the call earlier part of the call there is tremendous amount of volatility in the market.
We've seen the differential between WTI and Brent spike as high as $23 during the first quarter.
That upsets the pricing at the markets in the U.S.
and I think that will become more and more stable as we see the Seaway pipe come on which is going to start in about 2 weeks.
And that will start closing this differential and smoothing out the takeaway capacity from Cushing.
I think we'll see the markets continue to improve over the next 24 months and that differential getting very stable and get back into the $7 to $9 range.
Our next question is coming from the line of Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
I had some trouble getting on at the beginning so I'm sorry if you covered this already.
The impairment you had in the quarter what was the source of that? Was that just gas pricing? It's just normal leasehold impairment.
We amortize the leasehold over the life and we review that quarterly.
So it's our normal historical leasehold amortization.
No anomalies or unusual events.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And as a I was hearing you giving more detail on the ECO-Pads and how you plan to roll those out is there -- give us a sense of how much of your acreage in the Bakken is just because the blocks are too isolated and so forth is not really suitable for ECO-Pad drilling.
I think we're going to see most of our acreage is going to be suitable for ECO-Pad.
Where we have operations we've got this very large blocks put together.
I think as we continue our work in driving cost down I think we'll be able to expand our operation and work with other operators near us to bring that savings to everyone involved.
Right now if I had to make a guess to it I'd say 90% of our acreage would be susceptible to ECO-Pad development.
And even where we just have a single 1 280 spacing unit we can do multiple wells from a common pad.
So we can probably do 3 wells in 1 horizon for a pad.
So I think just about everywhere we're going to have operations we'll be able to do that.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up.
So I mean I guess the land work on that other 10% is that enough of a burden that you're inclined to I don't know either package some of that up and dispose of it or just back burner for the really long term? Well no we'll just go ahead and develop it.
I don't think that will be a problem at all Noel.
As I said as we learn more and more about these lower benches of the Three Forks even on that 10% we'll probably be able to do pad drilling on multiple horizons.
So I may just have a single 1 280 by itself that I'd be developing but I'll be able to drill multiple wells from one pad in that 1 280.
So I think we'll be able to get that cost savings on probably all of our acreage force finally finished here.
Our next question is coming from the line of Jason Selch from Helios Advisors.
Harold I understand that you don't want to discuss the Wheatland on the conference call because there's information in the proxy.
But there's all this controversy with the Chesapeake plan given how it's being financed.
And I was wondering whether you're going to update the information in your proxy to provide disclosure on how the Wheatland Oil plan was financed? Well first of all this is subject to approval by shareholders and have preliminary proxy on file.
I think it's complete now.
I don't see it being updated.
I can't -- I don't know about Chesapeake what the arrangements were.
I don't study them.
I don't have a comment on that.
I wouldn't comment on it.
So anyway...
Okay.
I just was wondering whether Wheatland Oil was borrowing money from the same companies that were financing Continental.
Not at all.
Our next question is coming from the line of Stephen Shepherd from Simmons.
Research Division</strong> Real quick.
I'm sorry if you've already gone over this.
The $550 million CapEx increase what's the breakdown of where that increase will be allocated across your various areas? Well that's the drilling CapEx and it's all entirely going to be in the Bakken.
Research Division</strong> Entirely in the Bakken.
Okay great.
So it looks like on the Buchner well in the Niobrara you all had a better IP on that well than you did on the Staudinger well.
Did you do anything differently on the completion lateral length frac stages? How did the well cost of that well compare as well? Well the well costs are very consistent up there and I think we just fell into an area where we had better permeability due to fracture swarms.
We believe we can identify those areas now and better place our well bores and that's what we'll be doing in the next phase of drilling.
Then we've identified quite a bit with 3 seismic that we have and we'll be working in that direction.
So we feel that we can make a very strong step change in the performance of our wells and the consistency of that performance and that will be our next goal in that play.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And last question for me.
Can you provide just any kind of color or your updated thoughts on the second bench at the Three Forks and what you're seeing there what you're thinking? Well on the second bench we've noted that in our previous talk but we have very strong production in both wells have drilled thus far.
It looks like we're going to be having around -- those 2 wells are going to probably average around 650 000 EURs from early data from early curves.
So it looks very strong right now.
The additional work that we described that we'll be doing the rest of this year and into 2013 will approve or disapprove that there's interference between those horizons.
Right now we don't believe there is but we're going to do the works spend the money to do that.
I believe we just have a larger petroleum storage system than we previously thought and the reserves will increase as we get that data in hand and that will be later this year.
Our next question is coming from the line of Marshall Carver from Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
First on the production guide up how much of that is additional wells being drilled and wells you'll put online I guess versus well performance? Are you giving any -- are you using any higher EURs there per well or was it purely more wells going on production this year? Well there's predominantly more wells coming on production.
We are seeing better performance as we're doing more stages.
We're spending more money on the wells than we did a year ago at this time.
And last fall we shifted from a 24-stage completion to a 30-stage completion.
We're sprinkling in a few 40-stage completions at this time.
We are seeing very strong production from the 30-stage wells.
I believe we'll have an upgrade in our reserves.
I don't have a quantifiable number to give you at this time but the budget was built on the 603 000 model that we had at that time with our trailing history.
We removed any waiting risking that we had on it.
We talked about that in the last conference call.
And we're fitting that fairly well right now with our growth.
So there's still upside out there and we're still working on that.
And I think you'll see that and all the resource plays exhibit that characteristic.
The more wells we drill the more that we complete the better the results.
And as we start doing more density drilling we'll get more effective fracture swarms around the well bores and build better drainage patterns for the well bores.
So that's been the history.
In other resource plays we feel that we'll carry on in the Bakken and that's a future upside that we hope to bring to this play.
But we're not there yet.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Would you expect to update that 603 000 barrels a well number on the 2Q call? We will.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then one more question on the guidance.
So you talked about taking out any -- so there's no risking in the current guidance for the year.
You had various risks before but now it's...
Well we have some risk in there and that's mainly weather-related risk that we have in there.
For the next 3 or 4 months we have the rainy season up there so have some risk on that.
So we just have some minor risking in there so nothing major.
Most of the areas we're drilling in are -- bulk of the rigs we're drilling in areas that have been de-risk now.
We do have some risks on a few other wells that are out in the expanding areas but that's minority of the well -- rigs at this time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the new production assumes 603 000 barrels of EURs? That's where we built our model on.
That is correct.
Our next question is coming from the line of Andrew Coleman from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I have a question.
I got on the call here halfway through it but you guys were talking about increasing your working interest through -- I guess by buying I guess some non-op partners similar to Wheatland.
How much additional acreage or I guess working interest do you think you can bolt on? Do you have a line of sight on any of that? And would you consider asset swaps in that to try to harmonize your acreage? Well we've always tried to do asset swaps to -- we'd like to operate acreage that we own so we're always working that.
Other operators have the same similar mindset.
So in areas of commonality it's fairly reasonable to do that.
But what we've been able to do is we've made various acquisitions we've talked about and through some leasing picked up additional acreage that's underneath non-op wells.
We've built the budget on approximately an 8% ownership in the non-ops and you can do the math on what we've put out and we've got -- we're seeing about 12% now.
And part of that may be just the wells that the other -- the non-ops are selecting to drill at this time and part of it’s increase in our ownership from acquisitions we've made.
But that's our experience.
That's what we're seeing today.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you think it's I guess the climate here is easier or harder to kind of do some of those things? Given where oil prices are is there more appetite now that perhaps gas is -- you guys seem to be a little bit more positive I guess here for the immediate short term so there might be a window here.
Andrew surprisingly there's always Bakken acreage available.
You think this is the last package and there's always 6 or 8 packages out there of various sizes to compete for and we compete for all of those and we evaluate.
We obviously can't buy every one of those but we're always competing for acreage in the Bakken.
We've got our cost structure down.
We're probably the lowest-cost operator and best performance up there right now just due to our size and the team we've put together.
And so we're very bullish on consolidating acreage in the Bakken.
And we'll I think be able to continue doing that into the future.
It's what it appears right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the lower spend for the current year and it looks like the CapEx at least for the first quarter is pretty front end-loaded.
Do you think as you go through the year and I think that was Marshall who asked on the previous set of questions if you have revisions to some of your EURs that you could find that CapEx and activity could pick up there in the second half of the year? Or is that just a reflection of conservatism on your part given the oil prices right now? Well Andrew that's a great question.
Earlier in the year when we're talking about our CapEx and our plan we were talking about adding rigs to the Bakken play as we went through the year.
We've -- the teams have just done such a great job capturing efficiencies.
We've been able -- as Harold said earlier we're getting more completions per rig and so we're getting a better capital spend due to that.
So we're doing more fracs per drilling rig in a year.
So we've kind of accomplished part of that goal already.
Now that being said we have the personnel put together and the capacity to expand that rig count going into 2013 and '14.
And with our inventory and if the commodity prices hold in I fully expect this to continue to expand our activity going forward.
Over the next several years not just the remainder of 2012 but over the next several years I expect us to continue to grow our count if the economic environment holds as it is right now.
We have another question.
It's coming from the line of Hsulin Peng from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> The first question is regarding the 30% reduction in drilling cycle time can you talk about on a per-well basis what kind of cost funding -- cost savings did you see from that? Well if you look at an average of about $20 000 just on day rate of your rigs and you can shave a week off you're talking about $300 000 net per well.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then the second question is regarding -- I was wondering if you can comment on the per unit cost guidance with the remainder of 2012 because it looks like the OE was lower than -- it was lower than previous items.
So I was wondering if that trend will continue or if that should ramp up? I think you can see variability between quarter to quarter on the per unit guidance.
Obviously our production is increasing significantly.
For now I would continue to utilize our guidance that we have out and we'll continue to monitor that.
We may have some positive revisions on that as we move forward but for now I would continue to look towards our guidance.
And that was the last question.
I would like now to turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm please.
I just want to thank everybody for joining us.
I know we have a lot -- you have a lot of calls a lot of business right now and we appreciate your attention to Continental Resources.
So thank you very much.
Thank you very much for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today’s call will include projections assumptions and guidance that are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this morning’s call followed by President and COO Rick Bott and Chief Financial Officer John Hart.
After their remarks we will open the floor to questions.
Other members of management are also available to answer your questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Continental’s second quarter earnings call.
Two years ago we met with many of you here in Oklahoma City at our first Continental Resources’ Investor Day.
At that conference we unveiled our five-year plan to triple production in proved reserves by year-end 2014.
At that time some of you may have been skeptical that we could do that but we will meet that production goal by early- to mid-2013 18 to 24 months ahead of that plan.
And we moved the company headquarters from Enid Oklahoma to Oklahoma City in the meantime.
During June we achieved a corporate production milestone of 100 000 barrels per day.
Our second quarter 2012 production of 94 852 BOEPD was 76% higher than the same quarter last year and 11% above production for the first quarter of 2012.
Our second quarter operating and financial results were also exceptionally strong.
Based on our strong results we raised 2012 production growth guidance as a whole to a range of 57% to 59% funded by a $3 billion CapEx budget.
Continental Resources continues to ramp up production in our premier Bakken asset one of the largest and most prolific oil fields discovered in more than 40 years and we’ve seen tremendous value in our position also within the Anadarko Woodford.
Our teams are increasing the value of these assets through acceleration of our development plan and they continue to perform at an exceptional level.
This allowed us to maintain industry-leading production momentum and margins while reducing our rig count.
In the Bakken we improved drilling cycle times by approximately 30%; in essence we are accomplishing more with less.
By year-end 2013 we expect to substantially de-risk and establish production in each spacing unit at our North Dakota Bakken acreage.
This will allow us to employ more ECO-Pad rigs.
We’ve already made significant progress and are rapidly transforming from single well to ECO-Pad drilling with nearly half of our Bakken rigs currently drilling on ECO-Pads.
Pad drilling is yielding up to 10% cost savings per well.
As we move into full development mode we expect to generate further efficiencies that will continue to improve the value of this asset.
Underpinning our strong growth in production and proved reserves is a solid financial foundation.
Toward this end we’ve layered in hedges to establish cash flow and are maintaining a low level of long-term debt for the size of our company.
Our strong balance sheet provides flexibility when acreage consolidation or other growth opportunities may arise as we’ve seen throughout this last year.
Together our strong balance sheet and operational control enables us to maintain high margins and cash flow growth.
Superior assets operational excellence and financial flexibility are the essential elements of our strategy which we strongly believe will maximize value for shareholders.
We’ve taken a bold leadership position in our two key resource plays and we have a high level of confidence in long-term value of oil and natural gas.
We’re proud to be helping America become energy independent.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Rick Bott for additional color and detail.
Rick? Thank you Harold.
These are really fascinating times at Continental Resources and since joining the team a few months ago I have really been struck by the variety of opportunities that we have in front of us.
In addition we have an excellent team of people with a strong entrepreneurial drive continuing to create value from these opportunities.
But a couple things you said I think are worth really restating for our second-quarter highlights.
76% year-over-year production growth and an increase of 11% increase over the first quarter of 2012 as well as a 48% year-over-year growth in EBITDA as you noted.
We also had a 20% increase in proved reserves to 610 million barrels of oil equivalent from the end of 2011 based on our mid-year internal evaluation.
Continued improvement of our operating efficiencies which along with increased capital spending has allowed us to simultaneously de-risk and extend the proven inventory in the Williston basin while bringing forward the value of these high rate of return wells.
With this in mind let’s talk about the three primary reasons for the additional capital so far this year and for the remainder of year which as Harold noted will be $3 billion for the full year and deliver an increase in production growth to a range of 57% to 59%.
Firstly over the year we’ve reduced cycle times by 30% which resulted in more net wells drilled per rig.
Because we are opportunity-rich and have generated such efficiencies we looked at all our options and decided to accelerate our efforts to unlock the value where prudent.
Secondly as we look at all the players in the Bakken the entire industry is wrestling with cost escalation and has really chosen to focus on their own operations and not participate in wells others drill.
We have chosen a contrarian long-term approach and instead have taken up these available interests in both our operated wells and those operated by others.
This has resulted in a 28% higher working interest on average in our wells drilled during the first half of the year I’m including both the Bakken and Woodford there which also translates to more net wells per rig.
In addition to the pool of interest I just mentioned we also increased working interest through trades farm-ins ongoing leasing and strategic acquisitions.
We have seen this as an opportunity to take higher interest in wells we really like.
This acceleration and increased interest were the two primary contributors to the increased capital announced for the year and work to support our long-term strategy as well as the record production growth we’re announcing.
And thirdly we also saw some cost creep on operated and non-operated wells like others.
Non-operated wells are running $2 million higher than our operated wells which are currently averaging $9.2 million in the North Dakota Bakken and about $9.5 million in the Southeast Cana Anadarko Woodford area.
Continental continues to work with service providers to bring down operating costs in order to maintain this low-cost leadership through operational efficiencies addressing supply chain issues and reducing the strain on infrastructure in the areas in which we operate.
And where – when we’ve needed to we’ve also had – laid down some iron.
For the second quarter we had an average oil differential of $12.63 but we started the period in April with a monthly average of more than $18 per barrel.
Due to this volatility we adjusted our guidance a couple of weeks ago.
As more pipeline capacity out of the Bakken increases we expect differentials to come down.
The key takeaway though is what we’re doing to maximize the long-term value of Bakken crude.
We continue to add opportunities to transport Bakken oil to coastal U.S.
refineries that yield the highest net price per barrel at the wellhead.
Additionally we are actively supporting expansion and construction of a new pipeline.
These and other infrastructure improvements such as the reversal and expansion of the Seaway Pipeline as well as increased rail capacity will result in realizing the intrinsic value of the high-quality Bakken crude.
Now let’s shift gears a bit and talk about what’s ahead in the second half of 2012.
While some operators have chosen to retrench to their core areas in the Bakken Continental continues to explore and expand the geographic limits of the play.
Since January 2012 our step-out and exploration drilling program has de-risked approximately 50 000 additional net acres including areas east and west of Nesson anticline north of Elm Coulee and south along the southern extent of the play.
We’ve also established commercial production using the newest technologies in areas that were previously considered marginal.
A key focus of our investment will be testing approximately eight additional Bakken Three Forks wells in the lower benches of the formation half of those being in the second and half in the third bench.
We’ve proven that the second bench to be commercial with the first two wells and now we are past – now that we’re past some of our permitting issues we are preparing to spud these additional second bench tests and our first test in the third bench to extend the play vertically.
While the next two tests won’t be completed by the Investor Day on October 9 we hope to have some color on them for you by then.
Our first priority in the lower benches is to establish productivity across the play because – and because of what we learned in the Bakken we feel we’ll be able to de-risk this play much more efficiently and quickly.
Just moving south to the Anadarko Woodford our production has increased fourfold over the past year.
We are reducing our rig fleet there and concentrating our remaining six operated rigs in the Southeast Cana area where the wells are much bigger and have a greater oil component.
The economics of these wells continues to be very strong.
Finally another milestone as Harold mentioned for us as a company has been the successful move of our headquarters to Oklahoma City which we completed – we will complete literally in the next few days.
The move is proving to be a huge success in terms of recruiting and has helped us bring in senior experienced hands as well as bright young professionals who want to work for the leading operator in the Bakken and Anadarko Woodford.
As we responsibly grow production and proved reserves we’re also focused on safety and environmental compliance assuring we continue to protect the health of our people and the environment where we operate.
In closing let me step back from the quarter results and detailed financials and summarize what I see.
Over the past three decades I’ve had the pleasure and opportunity to work with some very talented people to explore develop and commercialize many large oil and gas fields in challenging and remote locations around the world.
Additionally it has been a very long time since North America has had the good fortune to develop a world-class field as immense as the Bakken.
The entire country is just now coming to grips with the scale of the opportunity the timeframe required to develop it and the investment needed in infrastructure and people.
The entrepreneurial people of Continental are at the forefront of the creative application of technology in our industry which is unlocking the code and pushing the limits of developing unconventional resources like this.
The issues we face today are clearly surmountable and I can think of no better team than the people at Continental to lead the way.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to CFO John Hart to discuss the financial results.
Thank you Rick.
During the second quarter we reported net income of $406 million or $2.25 per diluted share.
This compares to $239 million or $1.33 per diluted share in 2011.
Our adjusted clean EPS adjusting for unrealized derivatives impairment charges and similar items was $0.68 per diluted share which compares to $0.60 in 2011.
We also reported $422 million in EBITDAX which was 48% higher than 2011.
The strength of our earnings growth is a strong testament to the quality and high margins generated by our underlying assets.
This quality is further evidenced by the per unit improvements reported in actual production expense and G&amp;A results as well as our revised annual guidance for the full year.
Over the years Continental has paid particular attention to maintaining the strength of its balance sheet which provides flexibility when we have particularly strong growth opportunities.
This is precisely where we are today.
Even with stronger than expected production growth and a higher CapEx spend in the first half of the year our debt to EBITDAX at June 30 was 1.4 times based on the trailing 12-months EBTIDAX.
Of course our cash flow is also trending higher quarter-upon-quarter throughout that period.
Given this fact we don’t expect debt to EBITDAX to trend significantly higher.
We also have ample liquidity.
Along these lines last week we announced an increase in the commitment level under our revolving credit facility to $1.5 billion and a similar increase in the borrowing base to $2.75 billion demonstrating the willingness of our banks to continue supporting Continental’s growth strategy with its focus on oil concentrated production.
With this increase and our ability to revise further if necessary we have significant available capacity under our revolving credit facility.
Cash margins remained strong consistently in the 73% to 75% range from 2010 through the first half of this year supported by strong crude oil prices and low operating costs.
We remain focused on capital discipline and maximizing the value of our premium assets.
We are growing at an accelerated pace while maintaining credit metrics as strong as any of our peers and stronger than most.
We don’t expect this to change.
With that I think we’re ready to start the Q&amp;A portion of the call.
And I’ll turn it back over to the operator.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yeah hi.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Subash.
Question – I guess if you can maybe add some specifics to this but in your original view in the CapEx of drilling CapEx that you had in mind a little under $2 billion $1.65 billion or so and the $3 billion could you just talk out maybe the number of wells you had assumed in the original CapEx guidance? And the number of wells you’re now targeting for 2012 on a net basis? Yes Subash it’s Rick Muncrief.
If you go back to our original budget that we laid out right at the very first of the year we were looking at 249 net wells in the budget as a company.
And what we’re saying now is we will be at a level of wells that are available to be completed of 330 net wells at year-end.
Okay.
So the 249 was with the $1.65 billion budget? Yes that’s correct.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thanks.
And then so for 2013 and I guess this comes to the broader question of what to expect in October you had a five-year plan you were clearly driven to overachieve.
Should we think about the revised five-year plan as sort of really a similar growth track that you would attempt to accomplish? And this time if you can shed some light on what sort of spending discipline you might have to achieve those numbers? And in particular what you’re thinking for 2013 CapEx if it’s not too early to talk about that? Go ahead John.
We are currently working on 2013 and in relation to that we have a multi-decade asset and we’re looking at growth rates not only for 2013 but for the next five and ten years and how we best manage those.
We have a commitment to maintaining our capital discipline.
But we also have an extremely high quality asset where we effectively return cash quickly which enables us to keep our metrics strong while increasing the level of activity in our operations.
For 2013 we expect to have an announcement on that in October when we have our Investor Day and we’re actively working on that.
It’s safe to say that we have a tremendous amount of momentum in wells ready for completion carrying out of this year going into next year.
We expect to continue generating strong high margin growth for a considerable period of time in the future but doing that in a way that also balances with our long-term commitment over 45 years of operating to maintain our credit.
Sure.
Yeah.
I had one more comment too Subash in regard to that.
A part of it is cost and we’re actually transitioning in this play now.
We’re seeing a transition happen from people basically scurrying to take care of their leasehold commitments and actually moving on to development.
So we’re seeing that happen.
And as it happens we’ll see pullback in the level of activity up there we believe and to a point that we can all control cost.
And so the emphasis we see across the field operator by operator is renewed interest in keeping those costs in line.
And when everybody’s scurrying around to hold leases you can do things you wouldn’t do as you go through development.
And Harold I was wondering say the revised five-year plan will there be a target for cash flow neutrality? That is something that we certainly always continually evaluate.
We balance cash flow neutrality with a number of factors.
We look at our debt metrics we look at the quality of our asset and the value of pulling that present value forward.
So there are a number of factors in there.
We have – the important part of I think your question if I could rephrase quickly is we’re rapidly approaching a period where in the Bakken for instance we’ll have that production held by production those leases held by production.
So we have the ability to be cash flow neutral in a very rapid and succinct period of time that’s coming.
With that you balance it in light of the asset quality and the opportunity and the preservation of your metrics.
So that is certainly one of the factors that we consider and we balance all of those throughout that.
Okay.
And just a couple and I’ll hop back in the queue.
One is on the hedging losses for the quarter.
I guess you’re not alone in this and I’m trying to get my head around what the swaps and collars might mean how – if we’re getting a hedging loss on a realized basis and how we should model the second half of the year those hedges? And second is if you have any appetite going forward to sell some of your non-core assets? Thank you.
Related to the hedges and if I don’t fully get your question please come back to me.
We have an active hedging program.
We utilize hedges to stabilize long-term cash flow and as part of that that balancing that we spoke of previously it help us to project and make our longer-term capital and growth plans based on that.
During the second quarter we obviously had an extremely sizable and realized gain.
We had a small realized loss.
Realized loss is obviously the current positions expiring during that period.
And particularly in the latter half of May and June you had strong movements in crude oil that moved our positions into a significant asset position.
For the second half of the year the position summary is fully disclosed in our equity position.
And it really depends on what oil prices do.
Our hedges in general are locked in around $90 to $95 and movements outside of those bands are where you tend to get larger gains and losses on that.
And it really depends on the strength of the economy and what crude oil prices do for the back half of the year.
I think one point to add to that however is just the fundamental reason for that and that’s defend the capital program going forward to continue to generate the growth that we’ve seen.
One part of your question that wasn’t answered was on the assets that – we have sold some older mature assets and that have a limited growth.
Good assets but some limited growth.
And we will continue that approach as we go forward.
Thanks everyone.
And your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
I know you have a big sort of initiative to start getting service cost reductions and your well cost down.
Clearly you’ve dropped a significant number of rigs at this point.
Have you seen any early returns on that in terms of service cost reduction? We’re seeing some anecdotal evidence in that and I’ll give you – the most recent happened about 15 minutes after our press release last night when we got an email from a service provider that says they’re voluntarily dropping their costs or prices for us.
So we are seeing that.
We’re seeing continued improvement or cycle times and so we’re – we are optimistic about what the future holds on the operated side.
On the non-operated side where we’ve seen even more pressures we stated that on average in our non-operated wells those costs are running in essence $2 million higher than ours.
We have not seen that yet.
I know that in comparing what some of the other companies have reported they all point to the fact that they anticipate that and they’re building that in their models.
But to be real honest we have not seen that show up yet on the invoices that we’re signing.
And so at the end of the day we’re going to continue to do what we can do to control that and try to influence costs throughout the basin in a very positive proactive way.
All right.
Well that’s good to hear.
In terms of Southeast Cana obviously you guys have focused a lot of activity there.
Can you give any more color on kind of recent wells in terms of what you think EURs are trending towards? And what’s the oil percentage on some of those recent wells also? Well as we’ve stated this is an older area a very significant area for us and it’s a very competitive area right now.
So we’re not talking about it to a great extent.
We will put a lot of color around that at Investor Day discussion.
We’re going to be prepared to discuss it very fully.
However you see the strength of some of these wells here it’s phenomenal.
Yes I think the takeaway there is what we’d noted that the economics there were still really very strong.
And shifting to the Southeast area as we have done we think is the right thing to do.
We think it’s going to continue to lead to that production growth that we’ve seen and we like the results of the wells we’re seeing there.
Okay got you.
In terms of just activity levels in general clearly hopefully you’ll see some positive trends in the service cost reductions and would you see those come down over the course of the year and oil prices hanging at $90 would you guys think about starting to ramp up the rig count a little bit? We may come back on with an additional rig or two next year.
I don’t anticipate that we will this year.
Got you.
Just shifting over to something you haven’t mentioned in a long time the Arkoma Woodford.
Just looking at your production data it looks like your production was actually up a tiny bit this quarter versus the previous quarter.
I didn’t think there was any activity there I wasn’t sure if maybe you guys have started some new activity there or there’s anything kind of going on in that area? We did see a slight increase down there.
And I think we attribute that to some production optimization efforts both on the operated and non-operated standpoint.
I think as volumes have stabilized down there systems have been able to – people have come in and done production optimization low capital type work.
And I know on our side it’s been very very minimal activity no new drilling no new completions in the last quarter.
So it’s just a lot of little things that are having in essence a flattening of the decline offsetting the decline.
And that’s a good point and I think as Rick said there’s not a lot of additional drilling and effort there.
But I think there and other places we operate particularly the Red River Units we’ve continued to see production optimization efforts real yield very very high rates of return so we like the things that our teams are doing in these areas to continue to squeeze out additional barrels and find additional opportunities either behind pipe or other things like that that they can get without a rig.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Yup.
And your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond from Simmons.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning.
What would you estimate is your current base decline right now? I believe that number is about 16%.
And do you think that’ll be about that level at the end of the year? It should not be much – any less than that it’s going to be in that range.
I don’t see a lot of change within the six-month period right.
And then turning to asset divestitures that you were talking about earlier do you care to quantify how much you think you might be able to sell non-core assets either this year or next year? I think it’s probably not the right thing to sort of give a quantification.
I think really it more the point is that as we look for that capital efficiency and try to use both our people resources and our capital we’re focusing on areas that we’re going to get the highest rate of return.
And there’s a lot of old things in the inventory that can’t really compete with the Bakken.
So we’ll continue to look for those opportunities and be opportunistic and look at the right time to perhaps market those or find some other structure to maximize the value bring it forward.
So we’re not really quantifying.
It’s not a big effort and a big focus.
However we continue to see things that we can do that just continue to make us more efficient.
Great.
And last one for me is where are you currently on your percentage of your North Dakota acreage that’s already held? And then where do you think you could be at the end of this year and then at the end of 2013? Yeah.
Our de-risked area in the North Dakota Bakken will be 97% by year-end of 2013 and overall de-risked and exploratory will be at 83% by the same time period.
And how much acreage do you have held right now? What percentage of your North Dakota acreage is held? Goodness.
It’s probably – let’s see about 72% on the de-risked and about 60% overall.
Thank you very much.
Yes sir.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
A question – at your current rig count with the 19 in the Bakken and the 6 or 7 in the Cana what would that CapEx be if that’s not increased or decreased on an annualized basis? We are...
I don’t know that we have it broken out – I don’t have it broken – I’ll have to think through that Brian for just a minute and we can circle back with you on that.
Okay.
Sorry.
And then one other one on the cost side we have seen basically every one of your peers as well in the Bakken have their well costs increase.
Is there a certain area that – is it a little bit from a lot of different things or is it one area that was driving that? And then two where do you think you can drive down the cost going forward? Brian what we have seen to start with if we go back over the last 12 to 18 months where we have actually seen a flattening and slight decrease has been on the stimulation side.
And I’ll start with that.
The increases have been in a lot of areas some of which you wouldn’t really think about things like material for locations.
The predominant material up there is a scoria a native rock.
And the cost of that on our numbers are up about 30% year-over-year.
Our day rates on drilling rigs we’ve upgraded our rig fleet that was about a 20% increase year-over-year to try to get better crude better iron walking capabilities.
Trucking some of our numbers are as much as 40% to 50% increase on an hourly basis just due to the unbelievable demand.
Rental tools were up in the 30% to 40%.
And cementing is flat.
Directional services we’ve seen some pressure there it’s in the 10% to 15% year-over-year.
And that’s driven as much by the demand going on nationwide.
So those are just a handful of – to answer your question we see it somewhat across the board.
So our plan is to go in line item by line item on our AFPs and develop clear strategies and tactics to start addressing these.
Okay.
That was helpful.
And then one final one if I can.
The – I lost my train of thought I apologize.
I guess that’s all from me.
Sorry about that.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng with Robert W Baird.
Please proceed.
Good morning gentlemen.
Just one follow-up question on the well costs.
So the $9.2 million I was wondering if that – is that for your – under your ECO-Pad or that on a per well basis? I guess I’m trying to understand if – how that compares to the $8.5 million or the $7.7 million previously? Yeah I think the $9.2 million is our average for single wells which compares with the $8.5 million range.
The ECO-Pad we’re still seeing up to 10% savings there so in essence you’re in the – still in the $8.5 million – $8.4 million to $8.5 million for an ECO-Pad individual well.
What we try to do is have an apples-to-apples comparison on cost.
And at this point in time a lot of our other operators are just now getting some of their Pad drilling results in.
Great.
And – Yeah.
And as we pointed out we’re still out there exploring and extending the limits of the play.
So we’ve got a number of singles that are out there.
I think Harold mentioned the number of ECO-Pad rigs right now was about 50% but we’ve still got another half of our fleet out there extending these plays and working in areas and testing out new technology.
Okay.
Great.
And do you have a target as to what you think you can get that $5.2 million down to or it just kind of depends on I guess negotiation with the service providers at this point? Yes.
We’re working at that very diligently right now.
We’re setting those internal targets.
I think once again will be able here at the Analyst Day to lay out a real clear target and also what our budget for next year will look like.
Okay.
And Hsulin just to add one point to Rick’s comments there I think we’ve talked before earlier in the quarter about what we had hoped to achieve from cost exercises.
But just so you know we’re sort of carrying that – those new capital costs – we’re carrying that forward for the rest of the year.
And so we’re taking a conservative approach when we talk to you about our capital.
We’re not building in any particular gains there but we’re working hard to try to make sure that we get them if we can.
Okay.
No that sounds good.
And then also a follow-up question to I guess about trying to frame your 2013 growth prospects.
I understand that we’ll get more information on the Analyst Day.
But can you help us think about that? So for example if we were to hold your rebuilding CapEx the same in 2013 what kind of growth rate can we think about? Or another way could be if you spend within cash flow next year what does that mean in terms of your production growth? We look at it in a variety of ways also.
Within cash flow is one of those ways that various set numbers with various other assumptions and the number of varieties.
We’re currently working through those aggressively.
What I think is safe to say is that we have an extremely strong asset that is continuing to generate significant growth.
That level of CapEx would generate a large growth rate level.
There are a number of variables as we said here in early August that will impact us on our 2013 capital budget obviously.
Oil price is one of those.
A significant – a $10 move up in oil obviously generate – with the level of production that we have built this company up to and the level of production that we have built in coming forth already puts off a tremendous amount of cash flow.
$10 move up or left or right obviously changes those variables significantly.
We consider those various infrastructure issues and everything else we factor all of those in.
Our intent for this company is to build a long-term cash flow generating self-sustaining legacy company and quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year is certainly an aspect of that but that’s a tactical.
We’re as focused on the long-term strategic and harvesting this value.
We do expect 2013 to be another good strong solid year levels of ranges and numbers yet we’re still – we’re factoring through those now as we consider the variables.
Okay no understand.
And then last question is I know one of the factors that you mentioned is your balance sheet.
And so in terms of – your balance sheet is very strong there’s no question about it.
And I know previously you had mentioned your comfort level being around debt to EBITDAX around 1.5 times which I know there are many peers who are – of your peers that are higher than that.
So I was just wondering if you would – if that’s still your long-term sort of target or would you consider raising that comfort level.
I think the way you look at that and the way you phrased it is appropriate.
It’s a long-term target.
There are periods where you’re below that there are periods where you’re above that.
If you look back to early 2009 we were around 1.75 times 1.8 times.
If you look back to the – further back into the company’s history when they ramped up the development of Cedar Hills some of those ratios went up but then they ebb back down as the production comes on and the cash flow comes from that.
So it’s not a set line in the sand where you’re never above or never below that.
We were as low as around 1 times earlier.
So you look at it from a longer-term perspective so I don’t overly dwell on it.
What I dwell on is the long-term focus of the company not one quarter or the next but the year and the next year and how you manage that.
So it is our target it is our goal and with our asset quality and the cash coming from that we have the ability to maintain in or better than that range.
That doesn’t mean there wouldn’t be a period where you’re above it but it does mean that you have the ability with assets to moderate.
Okay great.
Thank you so much for the color.
And your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Good morning Noel.
Good morning.
A couple things looking at the Three Forks the second and third benches I was wondering do you have an update on how that first well I think it was the Charlotte well is performing now? Is it roughly according to the – a similar decline curve as the Middle Bakken well or is this closer to your expectation? Yes Noel.
It’s doing very well.
It’s been online for about nine months produced about 63 000 barrels of oil and is performing right in line with our – typical Three Forks producer out there.
And I’ll mention that the Sunline well which was the other one that was drilled about 20 miles away has produced about 52 000 barrels of oil.
And it’s been on – oh probably I think it’s been on – when you look at the downtime in there it’s probably only been on for about three maybe four months.
So both performing very nicely and we’re really looking forward to getting going on our first third bench test out here.
We had a permitting issue that was just procedural but it’s not a problem but we’re just going through the process to get it done.
And so look forward to spudding that well probably late this month okay.
The hearing is in – like in the – I think it’s the 22nd and we’ll get a permit then and be able to just come right out and go.
And as you know we’ve got plans to drill eight additional tests out there four in the second bench four in the third bench.
And so – and these tests they’re not really stacked on top of each other.
They’re going to be 90 miles really from north to south to where we’ll actually be drilling these and about 60 miles east to west.
So we’re looking at trying to get a broad picture of how this Three Forks second and third benches will perform.
And we’ll hopefully have great results to report from that and be able to accelerate the development of those (inaudible).
But we’re in a stage right now we’re just trying to demonstrate distribution and commerciality and then we’ll take it from there.
Great.
And at this point is the main thing you’re looking for just a better understanding of the geology? Do you think that – I mean as best you know at this point do you think the completions are going to be pretty much within the range of what’s routine across sort of all the different areas of the Bakken you’re doing now? Sure.
I think that Noel we’ve got – actually we’re taking 10 cores out here.
But there’s just a whole – I mean there’s a hundred or thousands of wells out here that have been drilled and penetrated it.
So we’ve actually been able to use the electric logs that exist out there correlate it back to the cores and be – and we’ve mapped out these various benches.
And as I’ve said before the second bench really seems to have the same distribution and development as the first bench really.
It’s very similar in character.
The third bench is a little thicker but a little more shale.
It has some anhydrite showing up in it.
And so its distribution is equally widespread but maybe quality of the reservoir might vary a bit.
And then the fourth bench is more localized in this development.
But we have a good handle on the distribution.
Now the big question here is just how will it perform? And so like I said we’re drilling these wells to test really the commerciality the productivity of these individual benches.
And then once we do that we can focus on how we proceed to head to development.
Great.
Let me add – could I add one – Noel could I add one point to that? Please.
I think that from an investor perspective I think the key is to – I mean look at what we’ve done in efficiencies in driving down our – or increasing our operational efficiencies.
I think what you should expect from the Three Forks is that same sort of rapid application of our learning from everything we’ve done across the play in the Bakken to identify sweet spots identify the high productivity areas.
I think we will accelerate the devalue chain on the Three Forks and really bring that forward for us and understand the play a lot quicker because of all the knowledge that we built internally.
That’s both on the geoscience side as well as on the operations side and the completion and stimulation.
Great that sounds great.
I’d want to turn to the Cana Woodford for a moment.
Have you permitted yet? Or even spud a long lateral well in the southeast part of the Cana yet? We have not.
That’s always possible and probable as we go forward.
But we haven’t down here in this portion of the play.
Okay.
And then just a couple details I saw in the Q I just wanted to ask about.
One of them I saw exploration expense was up a bit sequentially.
Just wanted to check into that.
And in the updated budget breakout that you give I noticed that the capital facilities workover recompletions line looks like it was cut a bit.
I mean it’s not huge in the overall scheme of things but just to $70 million from $90 million.
And I also saw that the – sort of the regular PP&amp;E vehicles buildings there looks like it has gone up a good bit.
So any insight on that would be helpful.
Certainly.
The exploration expense we had an incremental seismic during the quarter.
It was primarily 3D shoots in the Southeast Cana that are going on in the second.
You’ll have some of that in the third quarter as well.
To your – ask me your second question again? Oh the facilities? We’re simply running at a lower level year-to-date than we previously budgeted in that area.
Forecasting out for the year we’re expecting to spend less than previously estimated.
Okay.
That’s a good thing.
And just the regular PP&amp;E buildings vehicles I think it went from like about $6 million the old number to about $45 million? Yeah.
There are a number of variables in there with the relocation the building cost the vehicles.
Obviously we do utilize other corporate assets going back and forth to our field locations.
So you have some incremental spend in there.
And some of it to be frank is just the classification of dollars where we’ve got those classified.
There’s a little bit of a transition in some of those accounts.
Oh okay.
Great.
That’s all I had.
And your next question comes from the line of Eli Kantor with IBERIA Capital.
Please proceed.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Morning.
Was hoping you could walk us through the Cana lease expiration schedule.
If gas prices remain on this depressed $2 to $4 range what percentage of you guys’ 316 000 net acres do you expect to ultimately keep? What kind of rig activity would that require? And of the percentage that you expect to keep how is that split between Northwest and Southeast? We’re probably – the percentage is about 85% of this acreage in the Northwest that the company has decided to keep and we’re actively renewing those leases as we speak.
This is a high potential area.
And it’s something that definitely with higher gas prices this works very well.
So we’re committed to the area.
We certainly think that it’s a very high potential area for the company and very good results and we’re keeping approximately 85%.
Some of the parts just to the east that’s just gas we very well may not.
But that’s only about 15%.
What percentage in the Southeast? We intend to keep it.
We’re not letting any of that go and those are longer-term leases as well.
Okay.
And how many rigs is that going to require to keep 85% in the Northwest and 100% in the Southeast? As we renew these leases of course that gives us a longer runtime and going forward so you’re looking at three and a half four year time span.
And I don’t have the numbers but it is increased considerably from where we’re at.
So we’ve dialed down we see – I see good things happening with natural gas as it comes back closer to $3 than $2.
And of course that’s an area worked good a little bit higher than that particularly in the oily areas that we’ve seen.
Does your 85% estimate for the Northwest assume you start drilling that acreage again next year? No it’s more – as Harold said it’s more really a balance between drilling and holding it with lease renewals.
So we’re just going to balance that out and do what’s pragmatic.
Okay great.
Wanted to ask quickly on the Charlotte multi-zone assessment pilot when should we expect to hear results? And I apologize if I missed this but when should we expect to hear results from the third bench and the first bench test? And what stages if any are you in in drilling and completing those wells? We expect as I said to get our first third bench test spud late this month following a permit hearing that’ll happen in the 22nd I believe.
And so we’re going to have 35 days to drill it and another 35 or so to get it completed and 30 days or so after that to put them on production so we’re 90 days out from having some solid perspective on the performance of that well.
And our second bench test there will be drilled immediately after that.
So you’re dealing with probably 120 days before we’ll actually have some sustained production from both those wells to give you some perspective but that’s where we’ll be.
The well that immediately follows the third bench for some reason I thought that was going to be a first bench test.
It is.
I – I’m sorry? Great.
It is because we have a – we already have a second bench and a Middle Bakken producer there.
And so we’re coming in and drilling a third bench test and that will be followed by a first bench.
So this will be the first 1280 unit out here that actually has four well bores producing from four different members of the Bakken petroleum system here.
Sure.
So it’s a real key development.
Sounds exciting.
What kind of prices were you paying for Bakken and Cana acres in the second quarter? We’ve – there have been some sales up here and I’ll let Steve address those.
We’re seeing those prices continue to escalate.
I mean absolutely.
We’ve – year-to-date we’ve closed on six acquisitions – four in the Bakken and two in the Woodford.
We’ve looked at probably 40 different opportunities that the prices just weren’t within our economic limit.
Surprisingly enough our success rate is higher with the private acquisitions just because we’re able to do a deal structure that works for both parties.
Okay.
In terms of the mid-year reserve report what kind of EURs were assumed for PDPs and PUDs in the Bakken and was there any change from year-end 2011 or mid-year 2011? There’s not really any change.
I mean I think we continue to see as – across the field we see that average in that 603 MBoe number that we’ve used before.
Some areas are a little bit better.
Some areas are a little bit not quite so good – little bit higher water cuts.
But I think on average that’s kind of a model that we’re still real comfortable with and that’s essentially the driver for that mid-year review and will probably be the same for the end of the year.
Okay.
Great.
Last question for me – one of your Williston peers has reported success in lowering their well costs by reducing the size of frac stages and the amount of proppant used on a per well basis in areas where the reservoir is shallower the reservoir is thinner or there’s higher water saturation.
Just wondering if you guys have looked at optimizing your completion design over the wide million net acres that you control.
Boy that’s a good question.
We have – to answer your question we have looked at that and we are still trying new things.
In some of the areas where it is shallower as you mentioned we’ve had some sliding sleeve and smaller job type completions.
We’ve had proppant plugs smaller job type completions where you’ve got water concerns.
And so we’re going to continue to do that.
And we do see variability in what we think is the optimum completion in the different areas.
The other thing we’re doing is we’re tying in a lot of the core work that Jack mentioned earlier and really putting science into this – into our plans.
And the luxury of having a widespread acreage gives us gives a real – we think a real clear idea of what that reservoir is going to do ultimately in the – both in the Bakken and in the several benches of the Three Forks.
Great.
Thanks very much for the color.
Yep.
And your next question comes from the line of Rudy Hokanson with Barrington Research.
Please proceed.
Thank you gentlemen.
Two questions.
One if you could talk a little bit about the variability on the differentials because your examples for the second quarter were all over the place but the most recent looked very favorable and if you can give some kind of feel for that? And the second question is as you’re still ramping up on your ECO-Pad drilling one of the first cautions you had given was the possibility of lumpiness in terms of results because of the timing on completions of going to three or four at one time rather than being able to do each individual well sequentially.
And I was wondering if you could give us some kind of color on what you see going forward with being at the number of rigs that you are now and how you plan to add them? Let’s take that second question first in terms of the smoothing out the lumpiness.
I mean we will continue to carry an inventory of wells waiting to be completed as we move from pad to pad but I think we’re able to manage that as we get more and more pad drilling out there.
So we just have a larger portfolio from which to be able to make sure that we’re hooking up things.
So I think it’s been smoother than we thought I agree with you.
We’ve also had really good weather results and some of the things that could come back to bite you.
So I think we’re still wary of that and we’ll keep that on your radar screen that is something that could be an issue.
Maybe it just depends on exactly if you want pick an end of a quarter or end of a year you may see a lot of that lumpiness.
But if you’re just looking in terms of the overall production growth it’s smoothing out considerably.
On the differentials let’s let Jeff talk about that because he’s negotiating those all the time.
Yes Rudy what we’ve seen in the past since March on those differential blowouts was just a flood of oil that’s hitting both Clearbrook and Guernsey on the pipe and so that’s what’s been driving that.
And we’re seeing that smooth out.
And what happened we had quite a few refineries down for turnaround.
We had a lot of Canadian oil coming on.
We had all the Syncrude’s units running.
That’s smoothing out quite a bit now.
We’re seeing stronger differentials at those pipes.
In addition to that Enbridge is reversing its Line 9 up to Montreal.
That’s going to be bringing in about 240 000 barrels of additional takeaway capacity and moving it up back across the Great Lakes and up to Montreal and into Canada working well.
The rail infrastructure continues to build out.
We’re identifying many many markets on the East and West Coast as well as the St.
James market we’ve been participating in.
And so I think you’ll see the overall trend of differentials coming down.
Hopefully we won’t see these spikes again.
But it was just kind of a perfect storm if you will of production increases both in North Dakota.
We have the pipelines full so it wasn’t really an increase of that production because we’re getting all we can to those markets.
But mainly from Canada a lot of it the synthetic oil and they have a sweet sweet oil growth up there also coming into a market that was constrained just due to refinery outages.
So we’re seeing that being addressed and moving away and we’re making more and more rail commitments to get that out short-term.
Long-term there’s quite a few pipes.
Rick talked about that earlier.
We’re supporting quite a few pipes that are being built in there.
We’ll see some expansion of Enbridge’s system back to Cromer in January.
That’s going to take care of quite a bit of that.
We’ll also seeing an overall improvement in oil price the first of the year when Seaway ramps up from 150 000 barrels a day to 400 000.
That will take away that glut at Cushing.
We’re seeing some draws at Cushing now so it’s – the capacity that’s in there now is helping.
That’s going to work real well.
And then TransCanada announced they’re starting their Cushing to Houston leg.
That’s probably going to be 14 15 months out bringing that on.
That will totally take away the differential on the WTI to the world price of the Brent or LLS price which will give probably the biggest net gain to the field short-term.
But we’ll be seeing improvement all along with that.
So I think that was an anomaly we saw.
We’re pretty much behind that and we should be seeing stronger and stronger prices going out in the future.
Okay thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of (inaudible) with Macquarie.
Please proceed.
Thank you.
Just wanted to clarify one item on the capital gains going forward for 2012.
Does that include any effect from the increase in work inventories from the Wheatland transaction? We looked at a number of scenarios in assessing the capital guidance.
And I think we’re adequately covered on a variety of scenarios.
Obviously that Wheatland transaction that you refer to has not closed yet.
We don’t want to be presumptuous although we are optimistic of a favorable outcome here in the near-term.
And with that it’s got a limited amount of months over the remainder of the year.
So it really doesn’t have too – an overly significant impact on 2012.
Great thank you.
And then just turning to the capital structure quickly obviously not a substantial amount of the revolver is drawn at this point in time but as the outspend continues is there a certain percentage at which you guys are comfortable up to in terms of having the revolver drawn where you’d look to potentially term out some of the revolver or what are kind of the thoughts on some of the funding going forward? When we speak to opportunities in funding we look to a variety of scenarios.
We’ve got an infinite number of ways to finance ourselves.
And quite frankly with rates where they’re at we’ve got quite a bit of flexibility with the revolver.
I’ve got the commitment set at $1.5 billion but I could grow those all the way to $2.5 billion and at 2% money that’s not a bad deal.
Terming out is something that we’ve done in the past.
We look at markets continually.
We always have that option.
Great.
That’s all for me.
Thank you.
Yeah.
And your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
Please proceed.
Thank you for taking my follow-up.
I just wanted to get a little more color on comments that you made earlier on the non-consented wells in the Bakken.
Was that a big problem in the first half of the year? And was it service costs that were really driving that problem or was it that patch where you hit a little bit lower oil prices back there in June? Well it – thanks for revisiting that.
I think it’s kind of hard to know what’s in another person’s mind but we just assume that it’s really driven by oil price and driven by the fact that I think a lot of players are kind of late to realize what was going on there.
And so a lot of people were really focusing on their operations because that’s where they can control it.
And so when everyone’s trying to apply some capital discipline you apply it where you have the most control.
And so I think people chose to not participate and I think other people were really just kind of surprised by that and by the oil price.
And so for us we looked at that and we also on a number of opportunities that we did not think the economics were there based on the history of that operator chose not to participate really to send a message that we need to push those capital costs down and try to work with them to show them ways that we can get better results.
Where that was successful then we can participate in future wells; where it’s not successful then it was probably the right decision.
But if you look at it as a whole we looked at what operators were doing and we thought this is an opportunity for Continental.
We’re a contrarian view sometimes and we thought in the wells we chose to participate in we look at these a lot.
And we thought these are good opportunities these are great rate of return wells and we would do them at that price.
And so we chose to go ahead and do them and add what turned out to be a considerable growth in our net interest.
And it kind of goes to Harold’s visionary statements.
I think he’s talked about last year is that this year will represent an opportunity for us to be the main consolidator in the Bakken.
So it just fits right in with that theme in terms of how we want to continue to grow an asset that we think is the place to be in North America.
And are you seeing the non-consented wells continuing at all and do you expect it to continue into the rest of the year? We are seeing it weekly.
Yeah.
And how long it continues in the future I guess probably depends on what’s driving those individuals to make those decisions.
If it’s oil price then yeah you may see it mitigate a little bit if we get a little bit better price in the third and fourth quarter.
But we’re still seeing the same sort of trend on a weekly basis.
Thanks very much Rick.
Thank you.
Sure.
And your next question is coming from the line of Andrew Coleman of Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Hey.
Thanks a lot and good morning folks.
Good morning Andrew.
Good morning Andrew.
I just had a question.
You’ve picked over a lot of the big topics here this morning.
But as you look at your I guess SWD kind of capacity how much is that a bottleneck right now going forward and I guess how much of the water disposal is going into Continental wells and Continental facilities? Yeah.
The SWD is not an issue for us at all.
We’re able to handle that quite easily.
Unlike some of the other plays that are going on in the Lower 48 water handling is a huge issue.
It is a consideration in the Bakken but it’s really not – it’s not a big one.
But I think you have to brag on Rick’s team there a bit.
I mean these guys they looked ahead at all of what the potential bottlenecks were and they made sure that didn’t become an issue for Continental.
So it isn’t and it won’t be.
Okay.
All right good deal.
And then I guess stepping to the reserves here for a little bit.
Your reserves I guess at year end last year were about 64% oil on the proved side about 78% were oil on the PDP side.
Looking at the replacement you guys talked about a couple weeks ago where should we see those numbers trending to when you factor in the Bakken growth plus the Cana gas? Yeah that’s always a good question.
As we look ahead and lay out our plan going forward we’ve mentioned a couple plays that’s out there that’s going to change things and our view is oil is still where the value is and that’s where our focus is going to be and I wouldn’t expect that trend to reverse.
I could expect that trend to reverse somewhat.
Okay.
And a final question is thinking about your reserve report as well do you have a PV-10 number mid-year that you could share or a standardized measure? Yeah we don’t – we calculate those annually and we don’t have that to disclose at this time.
Okay.
Well thank you very much.
And your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Yeah just a couple follow-ups.
As far as being a – the major consolidator in the basin where do you see yourself given that opportunity.
And I think we’re looking at acquisitions this year is around $1 billion going to be the right number and what are you thinking of going forward? Well I think that overall up there in the play that’s not going to exist forever.
We’ve seen this consolidation kind of ramp-up and I think will be over maybe this year first half of next year I think that will be done.
We generally crammed in upon the strategic areas that benefit us the most.
The stuff that we know about that’s right around us consolidating our positions is generally what we try to do.
We’ve been very successful at that.
We’re not going to get them all.
As Steve said we missed some of them.
We don’t stretch far enough or somebody else does.
But we’re I think the consolidator of choice up there have been and maybe it’s the knowledge that we have of the play that benefited us in that.
And then on lease renewals what are you offering land owners? Is it like herding cats and are you seeing the terms sort of vary quite a bit between landowners? Well a lot of our oil and gas leases provide for options to extend when we originally took the leases it’s a provision in the lease and the prices are already set in the oil and gas leases.
Our renewals seem to be trending the same or a little bit down.
People understand the current environment and they want to work with Continental they want Continental to be the operator so we’ve had great success in very cost-effective renewals.
I think the fundamental point there is exactly right.
If you’re a leaseholder what do you want? You want to get your well drilled and you want to make as much money off of that as you can.
So you want to go to the people who have got the fleet out there to drill it and you want to go the low-cost operator.
So that’s – it’s good for us it’s good for investors and it’s good for the leaseholder.
And so it’s a win-win all the way around.
And I think that we see people who on the whole really would much prefer to have Continental in there operating as Steve has pointed out.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And at this time there are no further questions in queue.
And I would now like to hand the call back over to Mr.
Hamm for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate each one of you joining us on our call today and of course would remind you again we’re holding our Investor Day on October 9 and hope that everybody can attend as we roll out our five- and ten-year plans talk more on the Bakken lower bench development mention couple of crude oil stealth plays that we’re going to be talking a lot about at that time that we haven’t had the opportunity to do so right now because it’s still very competitive.
So going to be a lot to discuss as we change the organization and deal specifically with marketing focus up there.
That’s a vast area a lot of gains to be made – this differential like Jeff mentioned we’re able to erase that as we go forward.
So thank you very much and we look forward to seeing you in October.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today's call will include projections assumptions and guidance that are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this morning's call; followed by President and COO Rick Bott; and Chief Financial Officer John Hart.
After their remarks we will have a question-and-answer session period.
Other members of management are available to answer your questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Thank you Lisa.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for Continental's Third Quarter Earnings Call.
This morning we'll shorten our remarks as most of you joined us here in Oklahoma City for our October 2012 Investor Day where we provided a thorough update of our operations and our growth plans for the future.
On this call we’ll review our recent results and growth strategy focus on how we expect to create growth for shareholders by achieving our growth plans in a cost-effective manner.
And for those of you that's been affected by the storm -- recent storm and the current storm Sandy and the Northeaster we sympathize with you.
We're pleased with Continental's Investor Day.
More than 600 investors joined us here and analysts participated in person.
We filed the presentations on our website.
We appreciate that opportunity to share our vision for the next stage of Continental's industry leading growth and provide some color on the SCOOP play in Southern Oklahoma.
We have dynamic and exciting plans for the next 5 to 10 years focused on enhancing profit margins and maximizing shareholder value.
As we announced we once again plan to triple Continental's production and proved reserves by year-end 2017 positioning the company of the next super-independent in E&amp;P.
Our recent results certainly point toward achieving that goal.
For the third quarter we achieved record production of 103 000 Boepd and exited to the quarter in September with average production of 106 000 Boepd.
Third quarter production was 55% higher than the same quarter last year and sequentially was 9% above the second quarter of 2012.
We are finally on track to achieve our growth guidance for 2012 a production increase of 57% to 59% relative to 2011.
We look forward to finishing 2012 with strong fourth quarter production and carrying that momentum into the new year.
So let's take a look at 2013.
We expect production to increase in the range of 30% to 35% a strong start for our new 5-year growth plan.
A key point to stress here is that we have the assets in hand to achieve not only our growth plan for 2013 but also our growth plan for the next 5 to 10 years.
We've got leading acreage positions in 2 premier oil and liquids-rich plays the Bakken and SCOOP in Southern Oklahoma which are cornerstone assets for a next decade of growth and we are adding to both of those positions.
As you saw in our announcements yesterday evening we have entered into an agreement to purchase an additional 120 000 net acres in the Bakken which will take our current position of 984 040 acres -- net acres to more than 1.1 million.
In addition we've increased our SCOOP position to 197 340 net acres.
To further support our growth strategy we are strengthening the company's organization to manage operations cost effectively on a much larger scale.
Along with young bright engineers and geologists we're bringing in seasoned professionals with decades of experience in large drilling programs and other key processes.
A critical area of emphasis is our oil and gas marketing group which is focused on developing new opportunities to meet and market Bakken oil to refineries and other markets on the East West and Gulf Coast creating a quality market for Bakken oil.
Additional pipe and rail infrastructure has broken the logjam of Bakken oil and we are marketing our barrels directly to refineries on all 3 coasts as well as in Canada.
This has resulted in reduced oil price differentials that you saw in the third quarter and John Hart will expand on this later.
Finally at our Investor's Day we discussed an interesting contrast in Continental's operating strategy the fact that we are capturing the capital and operating efficiencies of large scale development while still exploring and expanding the scope of our key plays.
Rick will expand on this further.
But the key point is that while we continue to assess new opportunities in the Bakken and SCOOP we're reducing cycle times and realizing efficiencies in both drilling and completion.
This speaks to our focus on value creation.
Continental has an unparalleled opportunity to create value through strong growth and enhance capital efficiency.
We are positioned for another year of excellent results in 2013 with strong production growth further addition in proved reserves and increased profitability.
With that I'll turn the call over to Rick Bott.
Thank you Harold.
I'll start with earnings.
EBITDAX for the third quarter was $492 million 46% above the third quarter of last year and 17% above the second quarter of 2012.
Capital expenditures were $727 million for the quarter which is exactly on target to meet our goal of $3 billion in non-acquisition CapEx for this year.
As Harold noted let's look at several third quarter operating trends that will help us grow production more cost efficiently in 2013 and continue to build cash flow.
Firstly we are starting to see increased availability of drilling and completion equipment and crews in the Bakken.
The supply of services and equipment is starting to come into -- come in line with demand.
We also see this in ancillary support services like construction spreads rental equipment et cetera.
Our trademark industry-leading ECO-Pad concept has really become a standard drilling approach in the industry because it improves land use as well as operating efficiencies.
We started with 4 wells per pad but as you've seen we've now designed larger and larger multi-well projects with up to 14 wells on the site.
Throughout this year we talked about the transition to pad drilling.
In the first quarter 10% of our operated fleet was on multi-well pads.
Today 45% of our operated rigs are engaged in pad drilling and that percentage will continue to grow.
This mirrors a higher number of rigs drilling in field projects.
In other words development in spacing units already held with an additional well.
So these rigs are drilling second to third wells in that spacing unit.
And how does this contribute to lower cost per well? Firstly we save on access and site construction costs by using and extending existing roads and augmenting infrastructure that we constructed for the additional well in that spacing unit.
Incremental site construction costs for additional wells on an existing pad are much lower.
Secondly pad drilling minimizes rig moves.
However when we do move rigs the average cost per rig move has also been reduced 17% this year.
As we've discussed in the past pad drilling helps reduce drilling cycle times.
Currently we're saving 10% per well on ECO-Pad projects reflecting this acceleration as well as leveraging this infrastructure.
And on top of this our drilling operation is becoming increasingly efficient irrespective of pad or single-well setup.
Our efforts this year to upgrade and high-grade our rigs are continuing to allow us to accomplish more with fewer rigs.
Day rates for the upgrade rigs are higher of course but we're offsetting the higher cost with faster cycle times.
Let me give you some examples.
The average wells drilled per rig increased 33% to 1.2 wells per rig month in the third quarter of 2012 compared to the first quarter.
Average days in the lateral the most critical part of the hole dropped 18% through a combination of greater efficiency improved execution and accuracy.
We recently demonstrated our execution capabilities with our North Dakota-Lewisville well which set a Williston Basin depth record.
We drilled it to a total depth of just over 5 miles in 26 days.
So I think the headline is if you take our drilling cycle spud-to-spud well costs are 25% lower in the third quarter compared to the first quarter of the year in large part because of these drilling efficiencies.
This is on top of the 12% improvement in spud-to-spud well costs that we had last year 2011.
Let's touch briefly on completion efficiencies and mention a few positive trends.
Completion cycle times have dropped 25% in terms of days from rig release to first production from an average of 76 days last year to 57 days in 2012.
Some input costs are also showing favorable trends.
For example profit costs including both ceramic and sand have dropped as much as 40% over the course of 2012.
This has helped us reduce stimulation cost per stage from a high of $124 000 per stage in the first quarter -- in the fourth quarter last year to $98 000 per stage in the third quarter.
Support infrastructure is also catching up with full field development.
One good example is water handling.
We have access to more water wells shorter hauling distances centralized heating and more efficient truck dispatching all of which improves efficiencies and reduces costs.
These examples give you just a little context to show we're looking at every aspect of our operation improving them individually and collectively.
In the aggregate these cost reductions and improvements significantly improve capital efficiency and underscore Harold's point about the combination of growth and capital efficiency to create value.
So what does this mean for our future execution? We're set up well for next quarter and next year to reduce Bakken well costs from the current average of $9.2 million per well to $8.2 million per well by the end of 2013.
That in turn significantly impacts well economics and drives your returns.
Now let's talk briefly about the components of our production growth.
As Harold mentioned third quarter production increased 55% compared with the same year period last year.
In the Bakken this production was 62 453 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the third quarter.
This represents an 81% increase over the third quarter last year and in terms of the sequential periods 17% higher than the second quarter.
We are currently running 19 operated rigs in the Bakken which should be sufficient to deliver continued strong production growth in the fourth quarter.
SCOOP production was also excellent.
SCOOP contributed 5 183 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the third quarter a 327% increase over the third quarter of 2011 and a 64% above the second quarter of 2012.
We currently have 6 operated rigs in SCOOP and again we expect a strong repeat performance in terms of fourth quarter growth.
Now before turning the call over to John let me give you some color on the exploration activities.
At Investor Day we said we plan to complete 110 exploration wells over the next 2 years.
A large portion of this program included an accelerated de-risking program to delineate the prospectivity and productivity of the deeper benches of the Three Forks across a large geographic area as well as several multi-well full field development down-spacing pilots for the whole petroleum system of the Bakken.
We continue apace with planning and preparation for this and expect to kick off these 2-year projects early next year with first sales to the market in the second half of 2013.
So in summary Continental is focused on production growth and reducing cycle times and costs which we expect to generate strong operating and financial results.
We're looking for a very strong first quarter and first year in our 5-year growth plan to triple production in proved reserves.
And we believe this focus will continue to drive earnings growth and reward your confidence in Continental.
That brings me to the last and perhaps the key factor that will drive this growth and that is our people.
While you're hearing from the 3 of us this morning these results are generated by our team.
And whether it's Rick Muncrief and the drilling completions production teams driving down well costs; Jack Stark and Chris Haugen leading our sub-service efforts; Steve Owen and Jose Bayardo and the land team adding attractive acreage at competitive prices; or Jeff Hume Kirk Kinnear and Steve Bradley relentlessly focused on erasing the basis differential of the Bakken crude.
The continuous strong financial results come from continuous strong execution and the support teams behind them.
For those of you who attended Investor's Day I hope you came away with a good sense of the breadth and depth of the organization that will deliver these 5-year targets.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
Thank you Rick.
A number of positive trends impacted our cash flow and financial position in the third quarter.
As noted our $492 million in EBITDAX was a 46% increase over the third quarter of 2011.
We generated a cash margin of 72% during the quarter which continues our focus on high-margin oil projects.
That margin is one we're proud of and it's something that's pretty stout when you compare it to our peers and industry norms.
Our margins benefited from lower production cost per Boe a 6% year-over-year improvement to $5.62 per Boe during the quarter.
This compares with $5.98 per Boe in the same period of the previous year.
The 9-month results were even stronger an improvement to $5.34 representing $1 improvement from the previous year per Boe.
We've also seen significant improvement in oil price differentials in the third quarter.
This primarily relates to the steady increase in rail shipments of oil out of the Bakken.
With the rail infrastructure now in place we can optimize our oil shipments.
In November for instance 65% of our operated Bakken oil will be shipped by rail.
As a result oil differentials improved significantly in the third quarter dropping to $9.45 per barrel.
September was even better at $5.19 per barrel.
Our 2013 guidance on oil differentials allows for some continued volatility but we believe the situation going forward will be more favorable than our experience during 2012.
A final issue affecting cash flow is our continued effort to hedge against volatility and commodity prices.
We've been active in the past 4 months using derivatives to protect our cash flow stream from commodity fluctuations especially in the case of oil.
As detailed in yesterday's press release we have derivatives representing 4 million barrels of oil in place for the fourth quarter of this year and another 23 million barrels hedged in 2013.
Again our hedging program is designed to ensure strong stable cash flow enabling us to actively launch into our 5-year growth plan.
Our financial position remains exceptionally strong supported by another record bond issuance in the third quarter.
We completed this $1.2 billion bond issuance at an effective yield of 4.6% which added significant liquidity to our already strong capitalization.
In closing I want to emphasize a few select points.
The company will focus on continuing strong cash flow growth improving margins and balance sheet management.
We expect that these will be consistent trends for Continental in 2013 and throughout the cycle of our 5-year program.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to our operator and we would be glad to take any questions you may have.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First just question on -- I guess a couple of housekeeping I'd say first on the...
Lisa this is Warren Henry.
We just lost Neal.
Are you there? [Technical Difficulty] The next question comes from Leo Mariani from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You talked about improving oil differentials in September.
Any thoughts on kind of what you're seeing in October thus far? Leo this is Jeff.
We saw an increase in market opportunity with rail and it moved more to that so I think you'll be seeing an improvement as we shift to that.
As John said we've got 65% going on rail now.
It gives us great flexibility.
The good news is we have ample infrastructure to move both by rail and pipeline so we can switch from one to the other as the market shifts.
And we're working that and planning ahead to maximize our value through that marketing effort.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And in terms of your rig count you guys talked about 19 operating rigs in the Bakken 6 in SCOOP.
Where do you think those are going to go to by early 2013? Well in early 2013 Leo we'll have -- we'll add a couple of rigs in the Bakken.
So we'll be in the 21 to 22 range I would say by midyear '13 in the Bakken.
And then in the SCOOP we'll be walking that -- I would say that by midyear we'll be at 9 rigs in the SCOOP and plan to exit 2012 with 12 rigs in SCOOP.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And can you give us a little bit color around the recent acquisition 120 000 net acres? Obviously pretty good size.
It sounds like that was acreage where you already had significant kind of interest and footprint in.
And just kind of any color around what sort of led up to this deal here.
Yes.
It started out as -- we've been working on this for quite some time.
It started out as a public offering that was pulled through the commodity pricing.
That's when we went to work and started privately negotiating it and we're very excited.
It's basically 2 different contiguous areas.
One we have a majority control; and the other a little bit over 50% control.
It's around 70% HBP and 70% operated.
It's a great fit strategically for Continental and we're very excited about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And I guess when do you go and start to mobilize rigs on to that acreage here? Leo actually some of this we actually operated on and we have rigs operating there currently.
Yes.
So I think the key points for this is how strategic it is and it's essentially right in the areas where we're operating.
It allows us to further our ECO-Pad work.
I mean we operate most of this.
It allows us just to increase our interest in each of the operated units we're in.
And it's right in the heart of where we're working so it's a real good fit for us.
It won't change a lot our operating plans.
It won't change our development plans.
It's just a question of having more interest in the wells that we already had planned so it's a real good fit.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess it had bumped your CapEx a little bit in 2013.
I think you alluded to that in the press release.
Just wanted to get a sense of how much you thought that was going to be? And then also what are you guys assuming for average Bakken well cost in 2013? We will -- obviously the transaction hasn't closed.
Once it closes we'll make any adjustments necessary.
I think the key point is that this large -- this acquisition the CapEx is largely cash flow neutral due to the strong production component that's associated with the acquisition.
So it's a very minimal net cash flow -- outflow in year '13.
And then beyond that it should be positive.
So we're looking at all-in roughly a couple hundred million of CapEx and EBITDAX in '13.
But we'll firm that up later once the transaction closes.
And you asked -- the second part of your question was well cost.
As we've stated at Investor Day we set a target for ourselves to have average well cost at $8.2 million by the end of the year 2013.
So that's a goal we set for ourselves.
And the point of some of the color we're giving you is that we see trends heading in that direction so it gives us confidence that we'll be able to achieve that next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess in terms of your CapEx guidance for '13 are you baking in those savings kind of ratably over the year or using more current well costs? Well when we built that capital budget we've sort of made the assumption that we would get additional savings.
But then that was something that we would use in terms of drilling additional wells.
So essentially we've used the current number.
We've taken a conservative approach to that.
And we think that that will play out through 2013 and we've set ourselves a goal.
But that capital budget is based on those 2 goals.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> This is Abhi Sinha for Doug Leggate.
He's traveling so we apologize for that.
So I just have a couple of questions.
So regarding the acquisition given you already have significant resource debt so how do you bridge the gap between [indiscernible] in inventory and realizing [indiscernible]? Well first of all as we mentioned about 70% of this is HBP.
So we're not under the gun to be out there developing a lot of new acreage.
Some of it certainly we will be developing a new acreage on as we go forward.
So it's a fit in lot of different ways.
So that's the first part of your question.
I think the other point is it's really value for effort.
So if we're going to drill these wells anyway on these things that we operate if we're increasing our position in those wells we're getting more value for the effort that we're putting into operating.
And I think that plus the ability for Continental to leverage our efficiency gains over a bigger program will continue to drive value for shareholders over the next couple of years.
So it really is quite a strategic fit because of that increased efficiency of our operations.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
What does the consolidation outlook look like now going forward? I mean are there more deals that you could be participating in in the near future? We'll have to gauge that as we go forward.
We have been one of the more active participants out there in aggregating both acreage and we still see some opportunities.
But we're probably coming to a close of that phase over the -- through the balance of this year.
We expect to see those opportunities diminish and so this is especially one that fits us real well.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And going back to the pad wells I know you guys talk a good deal about the operating efficiencies.
But I wondering about [indiscernible] rates in the pad wells [indiscernible] looking pretty good.
Is there anything unusual long-term frac stages going on that we should be knowing? No.
They're fairly consistent with the rest of our program.
Nothing of note there.
The main thing is the cost driver is going to be a lower everyday efficiency driver.
The economic driver is around the cost and the ability to execute so much smoother.
If you were at our Investor Day you saw that we had just finished our first simultaneous operations.
It's just another level of efficiency that we've gained and you can count on us furthering those efforts.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So given that [indiscernible] 45 rigs in the pad wells 45% of your rigs in your pad well so is there a point where you might want to reset your estimates on the year [indiscernible]? Well we'll always be watching our well performance to adjust the EURs if it's warranted right now we're still at the 603 model.
It seems to be working.
But I can tell you we're looking at a lot of things with our stimulation design the wellbore [ph] performance and we'll continue to look at that.
It is year-end time and that's when we always get ready to finalize our year-end reserves.
And so there will be a lot of scrutiny on wellbore [ph] performance.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And again where [indiscernible] I'm seeing that we have like production taxes are turning higher.
I mean is that the reason behind something or is that something that will continue? How do we look on that? On production taxes North Dakota has a higher production tax than the average.
They're right around 11% 11.5% up there.
So as you drill that does tend to pull your rate up.
Interestingly as we drill more in the SCOOP province in Oklahoma we expect to see that overall blended rate moderate.
And we're projecting that some for 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last one that I have is if you could provide any update on the deeper Three Forks potential? Yes we're continuing to proceed ahead with our plan to test both the second and third benches and fourth benches.
We've got as you know 14 wells planned.
We have our first well the Charlotte #3.
The third bench test there has been drilled and it has been stimulated.
And we are now just tuning it up and getting ready to put it on production and get our first production test of the third bench of the Three Forks.
I wish -- I'd love to be able to share some additional data right now but we don't really have any production data yet to share but it won't be long here.
So we're excited about the potential outcome here and we'd be -- hopefully in 30 days 60 days be able to talk about it more.
The other thing I might add is our first full-scale 320 project is Hendrickson.
It's a -- we do have regulatory approval on that so we'll be getting underway before much longer.
And we've also had our hearing for our first 160-acre pilot and that hearing went well.
We've not gotten the final approval at this point in time.
One other point about that deeper Three Forks potential.
Remember what we've talked to you guys about at Investor Day was the context of trying to de-risk this play across all of the deeper benches but over really quite a large area.
So it's a large program.
It's going to be executed over the next 18-24 months.
And so the goal here is to take everything we've learned in developing the Middle Bakken and the Upper Three Forks and then accelerate the de-risking of that across a broad area and understand the reservoir much quicker and then be able to bring that value forward based on the results that we get.
So individual wells here and there will be one thing but the really thing to watch is how we'll be executing on the overall program and what are the results in terms of understanding the reservoir its productivity and its deliverability in individual areas and looking for sweet spots as well as being able to extrapolate out very very quickly.
And I might add just a little bit color there Rick as well.
Just to give you a perspective when we talk about doing a test over a broad footprint here where actually these tests are going to be spaced out from the very southern end of the play all the way to the northern end.
So it's about 100 miles north to south and about 60 miles on an east and west direction that we'll actually be testing and demonstrating the produceability and commerciality of these additional benches.
So we are looking at it on a very broad basis here and I just thought that might add a little bit more perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Kistler from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly with -- in light of the acquisition can you talk a little bit about what your target or optimal debt to cap will be over time and maybe what you're thinking as far as a targeted or comfort rates for debt to EBITDAX going forward? Our longer-term debt to capital and debt to EBITDAX metrics view haven't changed.
We continue to be in the position that we want to maintain a very strong stable balance sheet.
With the Samson deal you'll probably see a little bit of an uptick in the debt initially.
However due to the strong cash flow component on these properties and our ample liquidity beyond that it will be moderate.
And we would expect it to decline as we continue production and moving forward.
So we're still in that 1.5 to 1.7 range.
And we would expect to -- in that ballpark and to continue improvement.
Research Division</strong> Great.
I appreciate that.
And then as you think about the well cost target going forward of $8.2 million you also mentioned that you're going to be tweaking -- potentially tweaking frac designs testing some different stimulations.
How do I tie those 2 together? Can you kind of give me some color in terms of what inning you are in as far as your well designs pretty? Is it pretty well perfected to get to that $8.2 million? Or do you expect a significant amount of tinkering? Well I think we'll continue to try to -- try some different approaches.
The fundamental premise is is we think that we like the momentum we're starting to see with our cost reductions.
And we feel fairly confident that we can achieve that $8.2 million target as Rick alluded to earlier.
And from a stimulation side we're seeing more capacity in the Williston than what we have traditionally been dealing with.
And so more frac crews are available and everyone's getting more efficient being able to sharpen their pencil.
That includes -- that runs a full gamut from your pumping cost to profit cost.
Profit cost coming down you may be able to -- we may be able to try some more stages in some areas.
And the other thing in some areas we may need more stages smaller volumes per stage.
And so there's all sorts of things we're going to be looking at but that will continue.
We've always done that and we'll continue in the future.
But from a cost standpoint we feel we're pretty confident about achieving our goal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then one last one.
Obviously you've done a tremendous job with the people you have at delivering your growth to date.
As you look at that 5-year plan do you feel like you have the sufficient people in-house at this point sufficient by number not by qualification to execute that a plan going forward? Or will you need to be out in the market getting more people? And does that create any kind of potential burden? Well here in Oklahoma City we've had a talent pool that's given us additional talent that we've utilized and we will continue to build out the organization somewhat.
But certainly -- actually our operations are a little smaller than they have been over the last year or so at this point so we'll be picking back up here.
But I don't see us significantly adding a great amount of people.
Some somewhat we will be but as we build out some of these areas to give us additional operating efficiencies such as marketing and a couple of other areas.
But overall we don't see a tremendous influx of people.
Yes.
One interesting statistic for you Dave and that was kind of one of the points to Harold's thing about Oklahoma City.
One of the points of moving to Oklahoma City is to be in a larger market.
And if you look over the last year August to August we've had over 27 000 applicants for the roles that we've been advertising for.
So it's a deeper pool.
The skills are here.
It's an opportunity for us to match the skill sets and the number of people with the 5- and 10-year targets that we set for ourselves.
And so while certainly it is something that we always focus on the move here has sort of launched us into a new arena of being able to get quality people.
The next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> My question is regarding the SCOOP well results.
Just wanted to -- wondering if you can share more color in terms of the location and the average costs and how do the rates as compare to the types that you set out on your Analyst Day? Sure I'll go ahead and handle the lease location.
The location of these wells is down in our Southern Oklahoma SCOOP area.
And they're -- I guess I'd say they're in amongst the existing some of the original early wells we drilled out there everywhere from the Lyle on the South side all the way to our Dana well up on the North side.
So they're really good I guess I'd say distribution of wells across the play that really gives us a high high confidence level of the de-risk nature of at least 600 square miles of area there.
And we feel we've got the potential to more than double that with our acreage going down to the south.
And so -- and what's really encouraging here is that we're seeing very repetitive -- repeatable results there both north to south.
And as we move from say the west to the east we get more oil.
So we're continuing to push that oil window on the East side with our wells and several have pushed that and we're seeing oil cuts out in there in the range of 75%.
And so -- anyways without a map here it's a little tough to actually lay it out and show you.
But it looks -- we have a good distribution there of wells.
So then I'll also add that since the Investor Day we had scaled back -- we had been running one frac crew.
We had scaled back to give our infrastructure our pipeline systems a little time to get out ahead based on the highly productive nature of these wells.
We're back to working now.
So within the next 3 months you're probably going to see another -- results from another 15 wells down there.
So we're going to be seeing a fair amount of growth.
And really encouraged as Jack mentioned about some of the rates we're seeing so.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And is it fair to assume that you're drilling in both the condensate and the oil fairways? Yes we are.
We're -- really when you look at this whole area I mean right now I would say we've got or at least half that would be -- it's a gradational change between the condensate and the oil window over -- the whole area there spreads out probably about 25-mile wide and so there's a gradational change from a more high oil cut on the East side to less oil cut on the West side and more condensate and liquids natural gas liquids.
So our wells that we're drilling are actually being strategically placed along this fairway to help to find those areas with the highest oil cut and the best deliverability.
And as I said before the really encouraging thing here is we're seeing very repeatable results.
And so consistency and results across the play are -- even though we're spreading the wells out we're really encouraged with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Sounds good.
And my follow-up question is regarding acquisitions.
I know you mentioned that you say opportunities are coming to a close.
And I was wondering if you meant more because of the potential tax law changes in 2013 that's affecting opportunities or that you have already acquired acreage where you are the majority -- where you own majority of the asset? Well we've seen most of the state acreage most of the federal acreage has been put up for bid and people have taken that.
But also people that we feel like or companies small companies that are there to -- seeking to be taken out perhaps we see a lot of those have occurred.
And in my estimation we'll see a few of them going forward.
There'll still be a few but perhaps that window is closing.
Your next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Yiktat Subash's associate subbing in.
Our first question I guess is about whether your thoughts are on the oil issue on '13 given pieces with the SCOOP growing but also with Arkoma Woodford falling off.
So just trying to guess how you see the ratio staying around that 30% region? We have modeled in what we forecast for 2013.
We're still in that 30% region on that.
So it's about 70% oil 69% to 70% oil.
Interestingly if you look at us on a total liquids basis we are higher than that.
We would be in the 78% 79% range on total liquids.
And remember next year as Harold noted for you guys at Investor Day next year we're going to start breaking those NGLs out.
And you'll be able to see total liquids still refer to how much is actually true black oil but we're going to show you both of those next year.
I might add too and you mentioned about SCOOP area when you look at the total liquids there you're looking at somewhere in the range of about 60% to 75% total liquids in our condensate and oil fairways there.
So that obviously plays a big part in keeping our ratio up there at 70% oil.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On that issue does the 60% to 75% include ethane? And are you seeing ethane rejection in the Mid-Continent area? It does give us ethane yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And have you seen ethane injection recently in that area? Or are you still...
Yes we have.
We're seeing ethane rejection.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What would that 60% 75% be without ethane? It would be in the range of about 25% to 55% oil on average in those areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 55% liquids.
Okay.
And what's kind of your thoughts on the NGL outlook? I think we have to -- we have to check that number for you on what it would be simply without ethane and get back to you.
I think that's...
I think it's going be -- it's going  to change your liquid -- your NGLs by about 50% is what it's going to do 40% to 50%.
Oh I see what you're saying.
I'm sorry I was just thinking straight oil.
Right.
So it's in between the 2 for a quick answer but we will check that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And just one last question.
What's your outlook on NGL pricing going forward? Well we're going to see the ethane remain weak for several years until we get some ethane crackers in and bring that on.
We are getting in the SCOOP getting Mont Belvieu pricing so we're getting the highest price right now on that and will continue to do that.
The overall NGL is going to somewhat improve.
We've seen some improvement in that as we get infrastructure built out.
So the non-ethane portion I think you'll see some improvement over time over the next 2 years as we go forward.
So that's kind of our view on it right now.
It should be back within 3 to 4 years.
We'll be back on good Btu basis I believe with oil again.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Grigel from Macquarie.
A quick question for you guys on the production mix a little bit of housekeeping in the Eastern block where -- what's kind of the oil gas break down there? And then in the Bakken acquisition what's kind of the production profile right now the 6 500 barrels? Is it still in the kind of the steep part of the decline curve? Or has it flattened out a little bit more? Okay.
In the Eastern region that's 90-plus percent crude oil.
It's -- Illinois Basin is normally crude oil production and so it's 90-plus percent maybe 92% crude oil.
And then on the production the 6 500 barrels a day it's a mix.
It's -- in that area we're seeing some shallower decline so you've had some wells that -- or certainly have been oil production for a while and then you've got some new wells that have been added in the last year in the development.
So a little bit of a mixed bag there.
Okay.
Great.
And regarding the cost savings.
What's the biggest driver there? Obviously there's a few different items you guys have mentioned.
Is it service cost reduction from the service providers? Is it increasing efficiencies? Is it moving to pads? It is both.
I mean it's simply -- I'm not trying to avoid it's just simple matter.
We've seen -- just to give you an idea from the first quarter of this year to the third quarter this year we saw cycle times on the drilling side decrease by 25%.
So clearly with the $50 000 a day spread day rate directional equipment everything else that's impactful.
And the other thing is something we had mentioned earlier and that is that we now have a little bit of incremental capacity in the Williston Basin across the board with services which allows for people to provide not only better service but they're sharpening their pencil because there is a little bit more competition built in the system.
So it's all the above.
Okay.
And we think that's good for the basin.
I mean I think as this comes in line and service and cost come down I think all the operators out there will be able to do a better job and be able to do more and drill more activity because things are just a little bit more economic.
The industry did a good job this year in focusing on costs and rig count down from about 15% from its peak.
It was probably in May and it's down about 15%.
And so that's provided -- I think everybody is getting a benefit from that now that supply is in line with the demand in terms of services and equipment.
Okay.
And lastly on differentials.
Obviously you guys have talked about how much more is moving toward rail.
With a sizable number of pipelines at least planned at this point in time to come on is there a need for those pipelines to come along? Or is rail a viable long-term solution given the different coasts that it can ship to and improve differential pricing? No there's definitely going to be a need for the pipelines because the production growth forecast for the areas is in excess of 1.5 million barrels.
It could reach to 2.0 million 2.25 million barrels a day so it's going to require a full platform of infrastructure build-out.
We're seeing right now rail infrastructure build-out that can handle over 1 million barrels a day and the pipes that are being planned and in progress will take care of the other side of that.
So we're going to see a huge shift over the next 2.5 years of markets.
We're going to see the differential WTI Gulf Coast differential start to disappear in the first quarter of next year.
We'll see how fast that goes.
Time is only going to tell.
But 2 key pipes coming up are the expansion of the Seaway pipe which will take place late January or early February; and then the Keystone pipeline from Cushing to Houston.
Those 2 ought to give us our greatest improvement on the pipeline infrastructure.
It will take more barrels out of Cushing and open that thoroughfare down to that area.
But at the same time rail is improving significantly.
We have an excess of rail capacity at this time which is wonderful.
We're able to hit all the markets.
We're finding new markets on both coasts.
And I think you've been reading about some of that in the press where new markets are opening up.
So our barrel refineries understand the value of our barrel and they're coming to us readily right now.
Your next question comes from Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions and sorry if you talked about some of these before.
I got on a little late.
Could you talk a little bit more about your progress in the extensional areas on the Montana side sort of I suppose North and South of Elm Coulee? Sure.
Noel this is Jack.
We continue to drill our wells up North there.
We've got about 4 rigs there in Montana and focusing in the area.
And we've -- as we showed in the Investor Conference there we've managed to push that trend further North.
The commercial -- the economic limit that used to exist for the Elm Coulee Field has now been pushed almost 10 miles to the North encompassing about another 100 000 net acres up to the North there.
And the results we're seeing there as you see in this quarter we had what our average was about 886 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Those wells are looking very good continue to see comparable results over a broad area just north of the oh I'd say the western half of Elm Coulee.
And we're continuing to push that East on to our acreage.
I guess I'd just say the -- kind of without a map I'm trying to describe it here.
But we pushed the halo to the North 10 miles and now we're starting to push it up to the river and a bit to the East of there with the wells that we're drilling.
And actually here recently we've had some results out on the East side that are encouraging and so we're optimistic about our ability to continue to expand to seeing both North and East.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And actually on the consolidation side has there been much going on the Montana side as far as maybe some of the operators who were involved? I'm thinking small interest sort of back in the heyday of you starting Elm Coulee.
Or as you head further West is there just not that much left to do? Well there was basically 3 companies involved there originally.
Continental was probably the largest one of those and then we've seen 2 other companies that both were marketed.
One of them is owned by XTO and the other is by a Canadian company.
And all of those are pretty stable.
I don't see those changing.
So there may be some opportunities over there but probably not as much as we've seen on the North Dakota side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
I was just wondering if maybe as your scale probably keeps growing and growing out there whether you might be in a position to be a little bit more aggressive and talk to some of these other folks than they might be if those prices are a smaller part of their overall portfolio.
That opportunity could exist.
We'll stay open to it.
There is some small operations over there that we've been in right till the end but well probably not as much as on the North Dakota side.
Your next question comes from the line of Gail Nicholson from KLR Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple more Montana questions.
You had talked at EnerCom about a 3-mile lateral well over Montana.
Have you guys completed that yet? Yes we completed that one Gail and it has come on just under 800 Boe per day and is still flowing about 300 Boe per day which is really encouraging.
Those wells in that particular area have a tendency to load up a little quicker than we see on the North Dakota side.
But then they experience sometimes a shallower decline so very encouraged by what we've seen.
That well is the Mott well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you plan to drill anymore 3-mile lateral test over there in 2013? Well that particular case was somewhat unique in that we had just with the land setup.
We're going to continue to watch that.
As Rick mentioned earlier we just completed or just drilled the first 3-mile lateral in the North Dakota side which I have to think that was a lateral with a total measured depth 26 500 feet.
So certainly a depth record we think for the basin.
So we'll continue to watch advancing technology and the application of it.
It could create -- and we anticipate it will create additional opportunities for us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just looking at the Three Forks on the Montana side.
I know I think back in 2008 you guys drilled a test well that wasn't successful.
What do you think of the potential there? Well that's a good question.
There's not a lot of Three Forks tests that have been done out there.
In 2008 we were really behind it technically to build traction.
We see some activity on the very East side of the state there around the state line of North Dakota and Montana where we're seeing some Three Forks production there.
And so I expect to see it work its way from the East to the West.
But we've done some core workout in the Elm Coulee area and we're encouraged with what we saw.
So stay tuned we'll continue to evaluate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then one final question.
Just looking at the Red River production it looks like it declined during the quarter versus Q2.
Was that any infrastructure? Or was that the natural declines in the field finally? Or just a little update on that.
We just had a little bit of natural decline but nothing of note that's a problem certainly.
I would now like to the call over to Mr.
Hamm for closing remarks.
Thank you everybody for joining the call today.
And we appreciate your interest as we go forward here with the new plan and certainly the new plays that we're involved in.
So we'll be talking to you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for joining today's conference call.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This conference call is being recorded.
Today’s call will include projections assumptions and guidance that are considered forward-looking statements.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm will begin this mornings call; followed by President and CEO Rick Bott; and Chief Financial Officer John Hart.
After their remarks we'll have a question and answer period.
Other members of management are available to answer your questions.
Now I will turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today for Continental's fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
One year ago I spoke with you on our 4th quarter 2011 conference call about our company's move to Oklahoma City and my vision of Continental's future as an exceptional company.
I know that our world-class asset positions the world-class operating results and I spoke of our world-class team of people at Continental and how we were rapidly building out and strengthening that team across the board at all levels adding key skill sets to take the organization to the next level of growth.
Finally I laid out a growth plan for 2012 that we believe would generate exceptional value for shareholders.
Well we've completed 2012 and it was without a doubt a transformational year in Continental's 46-year history.
As I look back on what we accomplished this past year I'm more excited than ever at Continental's growth opportunities.
We're the leading leasehold owner and producer in the Bakken and an unmatched opportunity in the nation's most exciting oil play.
The massive crude oil resource that is literally changing the world therefore world-class.
The Bakken is the lynchpin of the American energy renaissance.
Because of the Bakken for the first time in memory we are having realistic conversations about North American energy independence across the continent.
Then there's SCOOP.
At our October Investor Day we unveiled our latest exploratory gem and there's a massive new oil resource play in Southern Oklahoma with all the trademarks of a classic Continental discovery.
Therefore it's oil rich a contrarian and challenging geologic concept an opportunity to leverage Continental's unique expertise in horizontal drilling stimulation and again decades of running room.
As excited as we are at what we've accomplished this past year in SCOOP we just barely begun to scratch the surface there.
One year ago this play was hardly more than conceptual.
Today it's one of the most exciting in Oklahoma.
I repeat Continental is better positioned today for growth and exceptional value creation than at any time in our past history.
Let me review 8 of Continental 2012 accomplishments to show you what I mean especially as last year's achievements set the stage for 2013.
Number one as we announced last night we generated record production growing production 58% in 2012 and propelling Continental to be the largest oil producer in North Dakota and the #1 producer in the Rocky Mountain region.
Record EBITDAX and record net earnings for 2012 the strongest operating and financial results in our history.
That growth momentum continues in early 2013.
Number two aside from strong production growth the key driver of 2012's higher earnings was increased operating efficiencies as we transition to multi-well ECO-Pad drilling in the Bakken and even faster cycle times.
Continental continues to lead as a low-cost operator in our key plays.
Number three another critical accomplishment was the tremendous progress we made in marketing our royalty premium markets on the east gulf and West Coast of the United States overcoming those transportation bottlenecks in the Bakken and at Cushing and securing premium prices for a consistent high-quality sweet Bakken oil production.
Without question the past 12 months was third of that in the establishment of multiple new refinery markets on the coast for Bakken oil.
This significantly impacted 2012 realized prices and earnings and we expect it to continue helping us improve earnings growth in 2013 and beyond.
Number four we've continued to expand our strategic acreage position in our 2 leading plays increasing the 1.1 million net acreage in the Bakken and 218 000 in SCOOP at year end.
We've built an exceptionally valuable inventory of drilling opportunities for future years.
We refocused our efforts in operations by selling mature non-core properties and increasing our Bakken and SCOOP footprints which provide faster growth for Continental.
Number five we significantly de-risked the Bakken play both geographically as we explored new areas west of the Nesson Anticline and vertically as we established productivity in the second and third benches of the Three Forks formation.
Number six we increased proved reserves to 785 million barrels of oil equivalent and a year-over-year gain of 54%.
With 2012 gain we've grown proved reserves at a compounded annual growth rate of 45% since year end 2009.
We expect another very strong year of proved reserves growth in the Bakken and SCOOP play of Oklahoma.
Number seven we supported our industry-leading growth and higher rate return projects with 2 record-setting bond capital raises totaling $2 billion with record low rates of 5% and 4.625%.
And finally number eight we achieved all these impressive accomplishments in 2012 while completing the move of our headquarters down Oklahoma City.
We resettled 100 employees and their families into new homes new schools and our new headquarters building downtown.
The move has dramatically increased our ability to attract seasoned oil and gas professionals with the skill sets that could help us move in the next level of performance.
We've added strength at all levels of professional disciplines and management.
2012 was truly a transformational year for Continental.
But now what about our opportunities in 2013? First the Bakken.
We once again focused more than 2/3 of our CapEx on development and exploratory drilling in the Bakken.
Our priorities for the new year are we plan to extend the viability of lower Three Forks benches through accelerated productivity testing interference testing and pilot density projects you should expect a steady stream of news on these exploratory programs quarterly throughout 2013 to 2014.
And we plan to keep driving down well cost with the end of year target of $8.2 million per well average for all wells in the Bakken.
We will continue transitioning our drilling program to efficient ECO-Pad as part of the manufacturing process we've begun.
We are focused on capturing maximum value from our Bakken barrels as we market our oil through the most efficient combination of pipe and rail to premium markets wherever that may be.
The other key catalyst is of course SCOOP.
We plan to expand our current 6-rig fleet to 12 by year end developing and extending the play and turning acreage into oil and gas production.
We expect to see continued strong production growth with our emphasis on crude oil and natural gas liquids as we develop in this historic oil province of Oklahoma.
The priority around which all these pad lists [ph] evolve of course is shareholder value.
We've been later in creating shareholder value since our 2007 IPO and we expect 2013 to be another stellar year as Continental's exploration team remains very active in its quest to find large fields for the company's interest.
Now I'll turn the call over to Rick Bott.
Thank you Harold.
This morning I'd like to examine in little greater detail some of Continental's fourth quarter operating achievements specially as they indicate positive trends we are carrying in 2013 as you mentioned.
We achieved record production of 107 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the quarter comprised of 70% crude oil.
We estimate liquids if you count liquids as a percentage of total production would be more than 80% if our NGLs reported in our natural gas stream were reported separately.
This strong production growth continues into this year and we are on track in 2013 to deliver 120 000 barrels oil equivalent per day and for February.
We kept you abreast of our efforts in controlling cost throughout 2012.
This disciplined approach allowed us to maintain our CapEx budget for the year and remain a margin leader in our key plays.
In addition to execution our commitment to operational excellence and safety remains the top priority at Continental.
And we outlined for you at last year's Investor Day the efforts we are making to build our organization for the future.
We have an extraordinary opportunity set ahead of us and we plan to deploy capital in a highly efficient manner as John will give you more detail on later.
Speaking of capital our work -- well cost in the Bakken continue to be among the lowest in the basin.
However we still have a goal to drive them lower.
As Harold mentioned our goal is to drive down average well cost by $1 million to $8.2 million by year end 2012 and we are already well on our way.
To do this we will focus on improvements in drilling cycle times increased transitions to pad drilling and further optimization of completion design.
Our oil price realization are continuing to improve as well.
Looking back on 2012 with a volatile year for crude oil realization across the country including the Bakken where dedicated pipeline capacity was constrained thanks to the leadership provided by Continental and others a fundamental change occurred in the basin with the emergence of multiple true real markets new loading facilities across the play and the proliferation of offloading facilities at end-user refineries on all 3 coasts.
Logistical bottlenecks created market opportunities allowing rail capacity to grow and become the primary mode of shipment out of the Bakken.
Continental was the first mover in getting Bakken crude in many of these markets which helped drive 2012 realizations from above $12 per barrel in the first quarter to $3.25 or just under in the fourth quarter.
Now the capacity exceeds production and competitive markets are enabled Continental has increased rail utilization and has access to refineries and markets throughout the U.S.
These refineries prefer the highly consistent and premium crude quality of the low- to mid-40 APIs and extremely low sulfur and bottom content of the Bakken crude barrel.
During the year we grew rail shipments to 72% of our Bakken oil in December from a starting point of 46% in January.
As an industry we are displacing high priced foreign crude on all 3 coast.
And by switching to low sulfur Bakken crude refineries can potentially help meet stricter clean air standards.
We believe in time as the true growth potential of the Bakken is recognized Bakken crude will become a North American and global suite benchmark.
Continental is one of the few operators given our scope growth and flexibility in the play that can fully capitalize on this trend and deliver a reliable growing supply to even the largest refiners on the coast.
The other key piece in the transportation puzzle last year which gets a lot fewer headlines involve the ongoing emergence of what we call the first mile gathering system at the wellhead.
We focused a great deal of effort the past 2 years on first mile hookups to ship oil and gas directly from the wellhead to pipe and rail loading facilities in the Bakken.
This effort has allowed us to again set the pace for industry in reducing flaring in the Bakken to approximately 10% or less of Continental's operated leases.
With the expected reduced volatility and now improved visibility and access to pipe rail and personnel infrastructure we are narrowing and lowering on 2013 guidance range for differentials to $5 to $7 off with WTI.
This represents a 37% improvement on our previous estimates.
Now let's shift to exploration development activity in the Bakken and SCOOP plays and the key catalysts for the year.
2012 was a tremendous year for us in the Bakken.
Average daily net production grew 64% from fourth quarter '11 to fourth quarter '12 to 67 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
And we essentially doubled proved reserves year-over-year to 564 million barrels of oil equivalent for the Bakken.
Our acreage position grew 24% year-over-year to approximately 1.1 million net acres.
We established production in the second and third benches of the Three Forks and our program to further delineate and de-risk these lower Three Forks benches is accelerating rapidly in 2013.
We are also continuing to transition our drilling program to a more efficient pad drilling.
We currently have 21 rigs drilled in the field 14 of these are on pad driving down cost.
The remainder of our fleet is focused on exploration and step-out drilling to expand the productive extents of the field vertically and geographically as Harold mentioned.
During the quarter we completed 132 gross (50 net) operated and non-operated wells in the Bakken.
We are making excellent progress in several fronts and particularly on the key catalysts we expect to have significant impact on the field and Continental's results in 2013.
These catalysts include that lower Three Forks exploration 4 density pilot appraisal programs to test 320- and 160-acre full development concepts and cost reductions due to drilling and completions efficiencies and increased use of pads.
Let's start with the lower Three Forks exploration program which is currently well underway.
As a reminder this exploration program is designed to delineate the productive extent of the lower Three Forks reservoirs by drilling a series of wells strategically placed throughout our acreage.
We initially planned to drill 14 gross wells in the 2013 program.
However we have now increased this to 20 gross wells (15 net) to further define the commercial productivity of the lower Three Forks and help to assess the incremental reserves in these lower benches.
These 6 additional wells are not incremental to CapEx budget but are just a reallocation of CapEx.
We expect to have all wells drilled and completed by year end.
We reported in our release yesterday results of the first 2013 completions from the lower Three Forks program.
The Angus 2-9H-2 with 85% working interest flowed 1 556 barrel of oil equivalent per day at 3 200 psi during its first 24-hour test period from the second bench.
We are very pleased with early performance of the Angus and we want to point out that extends the known producing extent of the second bench of the Three Forks 27 miles northeast of the Charlotte 2-22H well a significant step-out.
We currently have 8 additional lower Three Forks exploration wells being drilled and completed and plan to provide quarterly updates on the results.
Although we would be pleased if they all turned out like the Angus this is an exploration program we expect to see some variation in results as we test the extents and deliverability of these reservoirs over a very wide geographic area.
Before moving on I like to provide an update of the Charlotte 2-22H and the Charlotte 3-22H wells which were the pioneering second and third bench producers in the field.
The Charlotte 2-22H has produced 108 000 barrels of oil equivalent from the second bench in approximately 14 months and the Charlotte 3-22H has produced 35 000 barrels of oil per day from the third bench in approximately 3 months.
We estimate reserves for these wells are very much in line with a typical first bench producer.
Continental continues to be the leader in the development of Three Forks with this 2013 lower Three Forks exploration effort.
With continued success this program could materially increase the value of our position in the play.
Now let's move on to our pilot appraisal projects.
We have 5 wells in operations at the Hawkinson location which is the first of our 4 independent pilot density projects to test the full-scale development potential of the Middle Bakken and the Three Forks on 320-acre and 160-acre spacing.
The pilots again are distributed across a wide geographic footprint within our acreage ranging from 30 to 80 miles apart.
These are aggressive pilot projects.
We plan to spend the next 18 months drilling and completing a total of 47 wells.
Production from these wells will start coming online in December 2013 and we expect to have all wells by producing by the end of the first quarter 2014.
We are applying an integrated technological approach in these programs which includes 3D seismic microseismic imaging coring and advanced petrophysical characterization.
This approach will help us further elevate the reservoir and optimize our completion designs to increase recoveries improve efficiencies and drive down costs.
Our downspacing program is very important to the ultimate development plan for the basin.
Again taking the industry in pioneer position Continental is looking to leverage its premium acreage position to extract the maximum value possible.
So now let me move now to our SCOOP activity.
We continue to be very pleased with the results we're getting from our new SCOOP project in Oklahoma.
In particular both the oil and condensate fairways are delivering repeatable results within those fairways in line with the October expectations.
To date we have completed 62 gross (33 net) horizontal Woodford wells in the SCOOP area.
We completed 17 gross (10 net) wells in SCOOP during the fourth quarter including 12 wells in the condensate window and 5 wells in the oil fairway.
Recent highlights include the Cosby 1-13H well which IP-ed at 1 761 barrels of oil equivalent a day and still climbing.
And the Lowrance 1-10H initially flowing at 1 580 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
These recent completions support our economic model of 1.2 million barrels of oil recoverable reserves for the condensate fairway and 626 000 barrels of oil equivalent per wells in the oil fairway.
At $90 oil and $350 gas the condensate fairway wells have an average 50% to 60% rate of return and the oil fairway wells have an average 40% to 50% rate of return.
As Harold mentioned we have 6 rigs running and plan to reach 12 by year end and invest $450 million to drill 90 gross wells (41 net) wells within the play.
Our 24-month goal in SCOOP -- our 24-month goals in SCOOP are to de-risk and HBP our acreage.
Based on our repeatable results we have greater confidence in this resource discovery and the production in reserve that will follow.
So in summary we have a clear vision to include shareholder value in the next year as a good start on our 5-year plan.
We plan to de-risk and expand our 2 core plays by developing these premier oil basins.
We're off to a great start with production expected to exceed 120 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day this month.
We are focused on operational excellence safety and continued efficiency.
We have a defined path to assure our transportation infrastructure gets built as we grow.
We have implemented an oil marketing strategy to reach premier markets and we plan to maintain a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility.
Echoing Harold's comments with such a record-setting year I have left only 2 things: First to thank our employees for their hard work and dedication.
And to turn it over to John to give us some context on our financial results.
John? Thanks Rick.
Yesterday afternoon we announced the excellent results for 2012 as a whole and for the fourth quarter exceptional production earnings per share and cash flow.
For the year we generated net income of $739 million or $4.07 per diluted share.
And for the fourth quarter our net income was $221 million or $1.19 per diluted share.
Clean earnings for Q4 after adjusting for nonrecurring items was $1.04 well in excess of Street consensus.
We also reported record EBITDAX of $2 billion for 2012.
Annual EBITDAX was a 51% increase when compared with $1.3 billion for 2011.
We accelerated cash flow growth in the last 3 months of 2012 ending the year reporting almost $600 million in EBITDAX for the final quarter which was 44% higher than Q4 of 2011.
Our 2012 earnings were driven by record production of 36 million barrels of oil equivalent a 58% increase over 2011.
We replaced our production by 6.5x with new proved reserves through the drill bit and an average F&amp;D cost of $12 per barrel reflecting our team's success in efficiently developing high-quality oil-focused reserves.
Beyond the drill bit our production operations continued to generate exceptional cash margins due to our continual focus on safe and efficient operations in high-margin assets.
Our cash margin percentage for 2012 was 73%.
We believe these results are indicative of the strength of our teams and the quality of our assets yielding -- leading corporate performance relative to the industry.
We also note that our margins are reflective of a multiyear history of strong stable cash margins.
And in fact they're indicative of our expectations for 2013.
Supporting our cash margins and capital plans we continue to strategically utilize commodity hedges for cash flow stabilization.
We currently have in excess of 3/4 of our expected 2013 oil production hedged.
62% of our production is hedged against the WTI average of $93 and 15% of our production is hedged against a Brent average of $109.
As our marketing has shifted to coastal markets a process of more reflective of Brent we began increasing our percentage of Brent-dominated hedges during 2012.
The summary of our hedge portfolio including 2014 and '15 positions is contained in our Form 10-K which we filed last night.
Our production target for 2013 is 35% to 40% production growth as compared with 2012.
So we are kicking off our 5-year growth plan with exceptionally strong momentum.
A summary of our full 2013 guidance inclusive of positive revisions in oil differentials and our effective tax rate are included in our earnings release.
The change in the effective tax rate noted in the guidance is attributable to changes in our blended state rates.
E&amp;P capital expenditures were approximately $3 billion in line with our budget which included $2.2 billion directed towards the Bakken.
The company also spent an additional $1.3 billion acquiring producing and nonproducing properties mainly in the Bakken our Samson acquisition which was completed and announced in the fourth quarter being the largest of those.
We ended 2012 with $3.5 billion in total debt inclusive of the revolver which calculates to a year-end net debt to EBITDAX of 1.78x among the best in the industry.
Obviously this ratio is significantly lower annualized in Q4 EBITDAX.
In closing our financial position remains exceptionally strong with plenty of liquidity.
Our expanding operating cash flow combined with significant optionality and flexibility enables us to fund our portfolio of low growth opportunities for multiple years.
I will now turn the call back over to Harold for a few closing remarks and a final overview before Q&amp;A.
Harold? Thank you John.
I hope you're prepared for an exceptional year in 2013.
At Continental we will continue to expand de-risk and realize exceptional value of our strategic oily assets.
We will continue to drive cost efficiency through operational excellence while always seeking to improve our excellent record in safety and environmental compliance.
We'll continue to capitalize on the opportunity to maximize the value of our consistent high-quality sweet Bakken oil by accessing premier markets on the coast.
And we will seek to bring value forward by accelerating growth managing margins and mitigating business risk.
As always we'll be disciplined in maintaining a strong balance sheet and our financial flexibility.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to our operator and we'll be glad to take any questions you might have on this.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> If I can start with a question on costs.
You mentioned an impressive well pad is under $8 million a well.
Can you remind us what your implied cost was on a blended basis in your 2013 guidance? What you're seeing right now across the portfolio in the Bakken in blended well costs? And if you're ahead of schedule and you get that lower versus the implied 2013 guidance will you try to keep the same budget and drill additional wells or how should we think about that wedge of capital? Let me take a stab at that and then I'll get Rick to add some color.
So we went out and forecast that for our budget the average well cost and remember Continental drills north to south and east to west across the entire basin so our footprint is quite large.
Our goal currently we budgeted $9.2 million for the average well cost in 2013.
However we said we had a goal as Harold mentioned to knock $1 million off of that and reach $8.2 million for the average well cost blended average well cost across the basin.
We're seeing good progress already.
Are we ahead schedule? I think it's probably a little too early to say that although we're seeing good positive results and we put that ECO-Pad results in the press release specifically to emphasize that we are seeing progress and that ECO-Pad drilling concept continues to find multiple opportunities for us to leverage our efficiencies and drive down costs.
And so we're excited about that.
We're going to move much more towards ECO-Pad drilling this year and we think that we're on track to deliver that year-end target.
Rick would you like to add anything? I think the Florida ECO-Pad the 6-well pad that we announced were just a hair under $8 million.
I think that gives you a little insight of maybe longer term where the company is headed.
You probably have heard we have already started on our first 14-well pad and we're really really pleased with what we're seeing thus far and we feel fairly confident that we will achieve that goal that we laid out that Rick just referred to.
And I think we're well on our way.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And if you do come in below that targeted budget I mean do you think would we expect to see you drill incremental wells for the same CapEx over the year or just come out with a lower CapEx budget? Yes I think I've you note we told you in our Analyst Day we sort of said out there our goal is to accelerate value.
We have a deep multi-decade inventory and we want to bring as much of that value forward.
So our plan would be to leverage those efficiencies and be able to drill additional wells and achieve that production targets.
So we invited you to measure us in terms of reserves and production over a 5-year period to triple both of those as well as being a low-cost leader.
So that's our goal and so I'd say our bias would be towards continuing to use those rigs as efficiently as possible and get additional value.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
It's very helpful.
If I can ask one quick follow-up on realizations.
You were at 70% crude on rail in the quarter.
Can you give us an idea of how much -- what the split was in terms of how much is going to which coast? And how much more upside is at that number? Are you starting to reach the limits of what you think you can move on rail? Well the markets are fairly balanced in terms of where we're going.
And actually those are changing weekly.
So if I gave you a number it would be wrong as soon as you printed it.
So the focus is that we are maximizing to get to premium market space on the price that's available at that time.
Is there more upside to that? There probably certainly is.
But we're probably at the point where it's harder and harder to get there.
But yes we're certainly continuing to make sure that we put all the crude to the highest price market that we have in any given week which benefits our royalty owners and our shareholders.
And your next question comes from the line of Ryan Oatman with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I too would like to stick with the macro and I do have a question given your marketing expertise and the breadth of customers your reach.
There has been some discussion of condensate prices weakening versus oil prices.
Have you seen that? And do you have any color that you could share about potential ways to combat any weakness the industry might see there? Ryan right now -- this is Jeff.
Right now we're not seeing in any of our markets the condensate weakening but we anticipate that that will occur as we see more and more of the Eagle Ford production hit the coast.
And so we're going to have to be finding those markets with what little condensate that we have.
The majority of our oil is light sweet crude oil and not the condensate though.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I also wanted to dig into your view on the lower Three Forks benches following these first 3 tests.
How do these wells compare to others drilled nearby? And how do you think about lower Three Forks prospectivity across the play to the extent that you can extrapolate from these only 3 wells? This is Jack.
We are [indiscernible] obviously with the result the Angus well and it is representative of the type of wells in that area.
And now if I maybe step back on just the lower Three Forks program as a whole and talk about before we actually kicked this off everybody was targeting the Middle Bakken and the first bench of the three forks and now we did our core program and demonstrated that there was oil saturation all the way to the lower benches the fourth bench in the Three Forks.
So essentially redefine the Bakken petroleum system.
And so in this clearly we see more oil in plays.
In fact we bumped it up to about 900 billion barrels of oil in plays about a 57% increase in reserves there.
And so this whole process and the reason I'm going here is I just want to make sure everybody recognizes that this is an exploration program and it has breadth of about 60 miles wide and about 75 miles north to south and we've got 5 different areas where we're actually drilling wells in the various benches.
So we expect to see some variability in outcomes across the play but we expect them to be representative of the areas that they are drilled in.
And so we're well on our way with 7 wells that are actually in the stage of completion right now out of our 20 wells we plan for the year.
And so and then getting back specifically to what you're talking about here is how do we feel about the repeatability in these zones.
Well I think as I've said before the first bench obviously is widespread across the basin.
The second bench is about as equally widespread across the basin.
And the third tends to be a bit thicker and have a few more shale breaks though in it but it extends almost as far as the second bench.
The work we're doing here shows it has a pretty good extent here and then the fourth obviously as we've always said it's going to be a bit more spotty and where it's developed more -- more well developed on the west side than on the east side.
So all this said is that we're just -- we're excited about the program as we're going ahead here we're really looking forward to getting the results.
And this is really an aggressive and accelerated approach at evaluating this given a large footprint of wells that we're drilling out here.
But ultimately I think what you should expect to see is the wells will perform in line with those that are around them.
And your next question comes from the line of Abhishek Sinha from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm just filling in for Doug Leggate.
So basically the first question is I just want to get an idea of like what's the timeline to move to 100% pad drilling? And while you guys transition to pad drilling do you expect like you're flat spot in the Bakken production? Our pad drilling as Rick mentioned earlier we have approximately 70% of our active rigs are pad capable.
If you look at 2011 31% of our total wells were on pads.
We're estimating that 2013 that number is going to climb up to about just over 60%.
And so I think that over the next 2 years we'll see a trend continuing to climb.
We still have some acreage to HBP and we also got an exploration program that Jack is just talking about.
So those are of our 2 driving priorities if you will.
Research Division</strong> So do you expect the production to be like spotty is it going to be a flat Bakken production at some point? I think you're just going to continue to see some growth from time to time.
Anytime you see a 14-well pad you may see just a little bit of a bump.
But remember we've got a lot of activity we're bringing all of the cycle times we're bringing on a lot of production all the time.
And so our goal is to make that as smooth as possible and also to accelerate as much as possible.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you can provide any color as to what you're hearing on regarding to potential restrictions on gas flaring in North Dakota and how does that affect your production in any ways? Well gas flaring is an interesting topic.
I mean clearly gas is a valuable and marketable commodity.
There are number of issues there particularly the fact that the Williston Basin in this area is quite remote and so there is not the infrastructure there to handle the rapid growth in the field.
However we and other operators have continued to address this issue and continue to work hard as we talked about in our description there of what we call the first mile hookup that's these gathering systems with our midstream partners to make sure that we can gather that gas as quickly and efficiently as possible.
And to further the point Rick Muncrief was making there as we go to these larger and larger pads and areas we can plan that better we can make sure that we have the infrastructure the gas gathering systems hooked up earlier.
In fact we hook them up every time we can before we start drilling.
And that continues to provide a lot of value for our shareholders.
And so that's essentially our goal is to do those as quickly as possible.
Right now we kind of led the industry we're less than 10% flaring and we anticipate continuing to lead industry through this pad technology.
The driving forces are there really is make sure that we have supportive regulatory framework and that landowners also agree that this is valuable enough and the access is granted to make sure the infrastructure can be hooked up.
But we're very pleased with the result so far and we're well ahead of our goal as I said below 10% flaring in the Bakken.
And your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang from Discern.
Inc</strong> Can you talk about the -- 2 related questions can you talk about the relative spacing of the Charlotte -- the 2 Charlotte wells the 2-22H and the 3-22H? Were they right on top of each other and how far apart were they effectively? Gil this is Jack.
I believe the Charlotte 2 is obviously they're stacked they're about 50 feet apart vertically the Three Forks 1 2 and 3 in the vertical sense and then in the lateral sense the Three Forks 2 well is 660 offset from the Three Forks 1 well.
And the Three Forks 3 was actually I'm going to say it's about a half mile to the East of our Three Forks 2 well.
So we did that Three Forks 3 test out there further away.
We didn't do it as a 660 offset because we wanted to be sure we had a very clean completion there that we didn't have any confusion with any of the other wells around there we wanted to make sure we've got an isolated test there.
And we drilled our Three Forks 2 well and that's about 1 year ago and we just recently drilled the Three Forks 1 well there 660 offset to potentially start our interference testing.
One of the things here is that our first effort here is obviously with this aggressive exploration program we've got here it's an attempt to prove the productive footprint very quickly for the -- these lower benches and then the next step is to demonstrate clearly that we have incremental reserves coming from each of these layers.
And so this interference this Three Forks 1 well we just drilled will be used to start monitoring what if any communication exists between these various benches.
So that is part of our whole process here.
Step one is prove the productive footprint.
Number two test the incremental reserves.
And we believe based on our history we expect there's clearly incremental reserves to be had here.
Everyone's going to have the question in their minds until we can prove -- it's going to take some time to get the production from these wells to assess that but we clearly know from just what we've seen like as I said before in the core there is substantially more reserves in the ground than we had previously considered given the oil saturation going from it being present in the second third and fourth benches.
Inc</strong> Right.
Thanks Jack.
A sort of follow-up to that is if you look at your 603 Boe Mboe type curve how much interference is acceptable? Or in other words I guess how small a type curve would make those other benches or the downspacing rather effective? I think that's an excellent question.
One is going to actually surface over time when you start to get more data in.
And I think your question is how much is truly -- are you talking acceleration unique reserve all of the typical questions that come up with increased density type projects and I think that'll come out over time.
But obviously there are 603 model that we have currently you could come off that a fair amount and still have very economic reserves.
Inc</strong> Are you willing to say you could come off like 20% or can maybe even more? Probably so.
I think we just need to -- we have all types of sensitivities and once again the bigger commodity is oil price assumptions and things like that to come into your economics.
Yes.
If I could just supplement there just a point there if you don't mind.
It really comes down to a balance between economics and recovery factor.
So we know just to set the larger context based on the numbers that our team has done in the large extensive coins [ph] program plus all the vertical wells in the basin that if you use a 3.5% recovery factor that's roughly 24 billion barrels of oil in the field recoverable.
Now if you can up that to 5% recovery then you're talking about 45 billion barrels of oil ultimately recoverable from the field.
So you can see that this -- you're talking about very small amounts of improvement and recovery factor and that comes down to how economically can you get the oil out.
It's not necessarily a question of whether or not there's interference.
And so it's kind of a balance between the density to well spacing and the cost of the well.
So as we continue to drive down well cost that curve will shift lower in terms of what will be ultimately economical.
But we very much feel that we're on the right track.
We feel this is an integrated fully high-pressured petroleum system top to bottom versus the old theory that the deeper Three Forks were sort of just a halo of the oil pushed down into that interval based on the pressure in the middle Bakken.
We now feel it's all one cell and it's all very very similar pressure.
And therefore the recovery factors are going to be much more an important factor for us to determine.
And we set out these programs to de-risk and determine what the ultimate recovery can be and the ultimate development methodologies.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> A couple -- another question on the lower Three Forks.
By the end of this year how much of your acreage or how much of the acreage is going to be tested? Or would you feel comfortable to say whether it works or doesn't work? This is Jack.
What I mentioned there is we've got a footprint that's 75 miles north-south and 60 miles east-west from the way these -- our exploratory project area is spread out.
And actually these are areas where we had taken cores.
So there really when you look at this strategic placement of this we're testing all the way to the north end of our acreage down to almost the southern edge and definitely to the eastern edge of our acreage and almost to the western edge as far as we got one well it's right on the Montana/North Dakota border.
So very large footprint.
Step-out program here.
And all these are relative to the Charlotte well.
If you look at it you're probably 50 miles north of the Charlotte 35 miles west of the Charlotte and 36 miles south of the Charlotte.
So we've kind of done this and it's kind of like a spoke on a wheel where we stepped out in all directions to really just define the productive footprint.
So once we're done with the well control that we have subsurface existing oil control and the cores we should have by year end a fairly good opinion about the viability of or the produceability of these zones across much of the basin.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then realizations have been strong.
Looking at what you reported today for the fourth quarter what have they looked like thus far in terms of your net backs on the realization side for 2013? Has it been better than the fourth quarter? Let's just say we're off to a good start.
And your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalman.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
I wanted to ask about the SCOOP.
As you do more drilling out there I know it's still early have you sort of identified a core if you will of the player of your acreage? I wondered is that determined just by where you have that unusually thick section of the Woodford? Right now Noel it's still very widespread covered a broad area.
We have identified what we call our oil window and condensate window down there.
But it's a very broad play at this point and quite extensive.
And really Noel it's more a part about how we developed the acreage as our ideas developed.
So really our concentration is then in drilling areas that we need to hold acreage and that will probably be the case for a while.
And so we continue to expand our ideas and we continue to expand acreage.
And so we're kind of following that acreage schedule if you will really but essentially as we talked about we probably got more than a 600-square-mile de-risked area.
I wouldn't say it's really a core there but it's really a question of where we have the data and where we have confidence that we are getting great repeatable results.
Noel this is Jack.
I don't think when you say core I think that as Harold said this is a broad area.
And quite frankly we see a very -- we've defined what's now maybe a 15- to 20-mile wide condensate oil fairway in here.
And our position we have a lot of what I would consider core areas all through our position all through this whole fairway down here in SCOOP.
And so we're looking at a long very long end [ph] of oil and condensate fairway here that there's we expect to find great production all the way along it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I want to turn for a moment over to the Bakken.
Something that I hadn't actually noticed at the Analyst Day but I think it was on your map back then.
In your most recent acquisition in the Bakken I believe you got some Divide County acreage.
I noticed from the last presentation that it looks like there actually is drilling activity that crosses that Brockton-Froid Fault Zone.
And I was just curious I thought that that was pretty much considered to be a sort of a drop-dead barrier for productivity? Noel we put our Brockton-Froid Fault Zone on there as say a linear line.
But in fact it's quite a it's a fault system going through there.
And the question is is it the Northwest limiter to the play or is it something that came in after the fact? There's arguments both ways but bottom line is we're seeing production that would extend across just a single line that we would put it there on our map as a trace.
Research Division</strong> And that Divine County area is that essentially considered prospective like much of sort of the Northern part of the play? Is that something that'll be put in particular emphasis then or is it just kind of ranked in line with everything else you have to drill? Noel we're seeing production a good production on the side of Brockton-Froid.
And it's -- we don't know how extensive it's going to be but so far it's -- definitely we're pursuing it and other companies are pursuing it as well.
So it's -- we we leased acreage up there early on and certainly a lot of acreage that we've acquired recently is in that area.
So we've got a very strong position there.
Research Division</strong> Does it exceed the footprint that you use for your estimates of oil in place in the basin? In my opinion it's about the same along the same lines as is there originally.
And your next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but I just have one quick follow-up in the SCOOP play.
I was just wondering if you can give us an update on the gathering and processing infrastructure in the play currently? And who are your partners there? And are you currently rejecting ethane there? Okay.
On buildout first question on the buildout our midstream gathering company has spent tremendous amount of money and effort this year to build us out.
We currently have 0 wells waiting on completion for that infrastructure.
So they have caught up with our drilling and staying ahead of us.
So I think we'll be in a position as we drill wells through 2013 to be able to complete them and get all those molecules down the line.
On ethane rejection we are currently not rejecting any ethane in our Oklahoma properties.
All that's being processed.
But as you know ethane is receiving approximately the same value on a BTU basis as the methane.
So residual so it's kind of a moot point whether it's rejected or not but to answer your question it is not being rejected at this time.
And your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
First on just the quality of the crude of the Bakken ignoring transportation cost bottlenecks can you just tell us what the quality differential should be relative to a Brent barrel and a WTI barrel? Great question.
You couldn't go out and look on our Investor Day presentation and we've got a graph in there that shows the typical refinery splits.
And the percentage of each of those splits on a number of barrels LLS WTI Brent and Kwaiba [ph] Light.
And if you look across those and the 40s blend so if you look across those the Bakken crude is actually one of the higher quality crudes.
It's got the lowest sulfur content of any crude benchmark in the world.
In fact it's probably of the term of ultralow sulfur crude.
So that's a very very good point.
The other point is that in terms of the Bakken the Williston Basin the depth of burial and the maturity of the source rock is such -- within such a range that all the way across that very very large basin 15 000 square miles you have near identical consistency perhaps more than you expect in many many basins identical consistency in terms of API gravity and quality.
So it's extremely consistent barrel.
So all of that huge range of ultimately recoverable is all of the same quality.
And the final point in terms of our refinery yields you get very high refinery yields because of the high content of gasoline and distillates like jet fuel and diesel.
So it's very high content -- very low content of the very light in volatiles and very low content of the heavy residual bottom of the barrel.
So it's a very very good quality.
In terms of price as we've talked about before we think if you fast-forward to sort of bottleneck unconstrained that we think -- within our 5-year plan that the Bakken crude will be traded at a premium to Brent minus the transportation cost to get it there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I mean just given the consistency of the Bakken crudes and everything else you mentioned and the volume of Bakken now have you guys tried to do what the Canadians are doing in terms of the Western Canada select just trying to get a better benchmark and better marketing of the crude rather than just one-off transactions with each refinery? What a great question.
Yes we are putting a lot of effort and trying to make sure that the end user that we have relationships with the end user that they understand the fundamental quality differences and they're professionals and experts in their fields.
So they understand that.
And then looking at based on the consistent quality ease of distribution now to the entire country if you will and the long-term largest supply we think in the country that ultimately as we said in our note that it could become a national benchmarker of global light sweet crude benchmark because of the great quality of the Bakken crude.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the rail cost can you share even just a rough idea of what the rail costs are to the east coast as well as to the west coast? Are you willing to...
We haven't really gone out and spent and talked specifically about the transport cost.
I think a number of other players have and they put that out on their website and it's sort of like what is the advertised cost.
It's quite a competitive and commercial piece of informations and it's changing quite quickly.
And so we prefer not to talk about that for commercial reasons.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just switching over to the deeper Three Forks bench test.
If you already had an existing Bakken well in terms of the road the pad the infrastructure sort of buildout on the gathering what is the incremental cost from an existing pad to drill one of these deeper bench wells? Oh not much.
They're as Jack said 50 feet apart so it's really just a change in our angle at which we kick off on the horizontal.
Rick you want to add anything to that? Yes that's right.
We basically will lump all those wells within our goal of reducing knocking $1 million off.
So we will include the deeper benches of the Three Forks in that as we set that corporate goal for our team.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But if your average well cost on a new pad or new well was 8.5 or 9 would this -- I mean because if you've got the gathering in the road and the pad built is this cost more 7.5 6.5? No.
You wouldn't see a 6.5 range.
You can certainly see potentially $300 000 to $400 000 knocked off those costs.
You can come back in and do say a new generation of lower bench wells.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a final question.
Based on your knowledge to date are you thinking of these deeper benches as a way to sort of extend the life once the primary zones are produced? Or would this sort of be targets for initial developments as well right up front? Or I guess it depends on the economics...
What you bring up is an excellent question and we're going to in the next 24 months we're going to have a lot of things revealed to us.
And included in that is secondary recovery of potential.
And if so which zones what caps patterns things like that.
So we're just really excited about what we're going to find in the next 24 months with these infield programs.
If I could add to that.
We think it will become part of the primary development.
We would look at the best areas and how we optimize and maximize value and we will -- it doesn't matter what interval we'll be in.
Once we have de-risked these and understand where the sweet spots are the deliverability and operational efficiencies that we can gain from these large programs once we understand that then we will modify and roll into full field development.
But you could be drilling at Three Forks third bench just as soon as you drill a first bench on the same pad just to looking at what is the optimal way to reduce costs and increase efficiencies.
And your next question comes from the line of Rudy Hokanson from Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is a macro question.
And it has to do with the attractiveness of the Bakken crude and the end markets and that is is the refinery system that you're shipping to in the lower 48 what is it appetite for this crude when you look at the way that the refineries have been built over the last 15 years and the changes they had to make before there was the Bakken crude and the blends that they were looking for? How much crude can the refinery system take given the expected growth of production right now and maybe what they're telling you? I know that it's a great crude et cetera but the way that they've been constructed and the capital investment they've made for the different types of crude may say that there's eventually a limit to how much they can take.
What have you seen or heard? And what are your studies telling you? Luckily Rudy this play started coming on before everybody went to coproducing and spent all the big bucks to transform those refineries.
We see the market as quite extensive yet due to all the Afghan oils and Middle East oils are still coming through our coast.
So obviously backing that crude out and getting all of the East Coast markets is very important.
So as this field came on luckily it was in time to say that a lot of people a lot of investments.
So the rail system has certainly become transformative in the delivery speed of delivery efficiency of delivery everybody is realizing that this is totally transformative.
So we feel like it's a large market out there.
And Rudy if I could supplement a point to Harold's comments there.
It depends on the timeframe you're looking.
But I think as the North American refinery segment and the upstream segment sort of come together in terms of the estimates of the ultimate recoverable from North American and from these plays that are being uncovered.
Certainly the Bakken the Eagle Ford the Permian some of these other liquids-rich plays that at the end of the day they will look at what the economics are in terms of additional investments and additional expansion and what can be done with that.
And so long term we think that you'll see the opportunity for buildout for additional investment and even saw it last year with the refinery there in Philadelphia that was going to be mothballed had private equity come in and invest in it and essentially because they run a light sweet crude.
And so that refinery stayed on the market and otherwise it would've been closed if it weren't for the Bakken crude.
And your next question comes from the line of Jason Wangler from Wunderlich Securities.
This is actually Mo dialing in for Jason.
Just a couple of questions if you can tell us what the NGL mix in those wells that you drilled in the condensate fairway the 3 wells that you've drilled in the fourth quarter? And if you can talk a little bit about the pricing of those NGLs? One second we're just making sure we've got that.
Jeff's got it here.
Well what we're seeing in the condensate fairway we're seeing about 37% NGL mix in those areas.
So you're seeing a very very good price in there.
We had a crisis in December in that area of around realized prices around $5.60 at the wellhead.
So with the NGL content that high -- of your total mix your total stream is about 37% NGL about 24% oil and 39% gas.
So it's very very rich.
And your next question comes from the line of Sven del Pozzo from IHS.
Inc.</strong> Just briefly.
Looking at your wells looking where the best wells are would you -- could you generalize at this point and say that the lower Three Forks benches were the better areas? Or lower Three Forks benches would also be in the better areas where you've had -- of your Middle Bakken and the shallowest Three Forks member? At this point that's a fair generalization to make right now.
Obviously we've got a lot of drilling to do to figure all this out.
But right now I think it's fair.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Is there --  I mean is it just the typical things that would make rocks better that would also make these deeper Three Forks benches better in terms of rock characteristics? We see -- the best correlation we see is just with the percent dolomite development in each of these benches.
And so in the first and second benches we're really just dealing with pretty much just dolomite up there and better with some of the shales.
If you get down in the third bench as you get out to the flanks of the basin you start seeing some evidence of anhydrite showing up.
And even in some areas more central.
But then in the fourth bench you see a higher percentage of anhydrite showing up which anhydrite is something that just -- it includes porosity a little bit which could reduce permeability.
So as far as the quality is concerned I mean the dolomites themselves I mean you definitely see that as this basin was evolving that there are common environments in which the dolomites being positive [ph] and repeatedly through time.
That's why we have these various benches.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then lastly in Montana looks like almost 30% of your net well count in the fourth quarter was in Montana.
I'm wondering is that higher than in the past? And if so just brief description of your most recent developments in Montana and if there is a ramp up and why? It's pretty consistent where we've been I think over the last 6 8 months I'd say.
And we've got 5 rigs running out there and say 2/3 of those are outside of the confines of the field so that's 3 of them are outside of it and then 2 are drilling some infill locations.
And the results we're seeing continue to meet our expectations up there of our 430 model pretty much across the board up there.
And we're drilling from the east side of our undeveloped acreage block up northbound curling to the west side right now.
And we've on average extended the field out about 7 miles some places even upwards of 10 miles.
So we're continuing to plug away there and continuing to expand the footprint of the field.
And your next question comes from the line of Eli Kantor from Iberia Capital Partners.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch on the downspacing conversation that was discussed earlier with regard to 24-hour IPs that you come out with density results from the 320- and 160-acre spacing pilots.
There's been talk about an EUR degradation of roughly 30%.
I'm just wondering if that's a good benchmark to use for 24-hour IP expectations when you announce results at the end of this year or beginning in 2014? We don't know where the 30% comes from.
So it's really hard for us to even address that Eli to be honest with you.
Yes I'd say Eli right now I would say that we aren't seeing any reduction in IPs from wells drilled in these lower benches yet.
We need to obviously a larger database and as far as the density is concerned obviously we've got a lot of wells.
We've got numerous wells that have been drilled on in pairs of wells that are 660 offset Middle Bakken and the first bench well and their 660 offsets.
And we're not seeing any influence on IPs or even EUR.
So I mean there's just a constant building of data set out here that's saying that pattern is not causing any kind of degradation in at least initial rates.
Eli this is Warren.
Are you referring to the Ryder Scott study that we discussed at the Investors Day? Research Division</strong> Yes that's correct.
That was a projected EUR.
On the [indiscernible] that was down to 160 that was projected EUR possible on the seventh and eighth well in a 160 spacing in Middle Bakken.
Research Division</strong> That's a reasonable assumption but we have to see it.
As we said earlier in the next 12 or 24 months we're going to get a lot of data.
So neither we can support that or dispute that assumption at where it's at.
Again it goes back to the economics of each individual well and the balance between driving down costs and the density spacing that you'll ultimately choose.
And we've -- the internal models that we run particularly in a lot of areas don't show much degradation at all.
And so I think it really is going to be about the quality of the rock in a given area and how it performs with the stimulation technologies that we're currently applying leaving room of course for additional optimization additional stimulation techniques that we might use in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Question on timing on the fourth -- your first test into the fourth PFS bench.
When should we hear results on that? I think we should see something on that within 30 days.
And with the wells down and we're going to have the several wells here coming up in the next 30 to 40 days and we'll probably -- what we're planning on doing is going ahead doing a quarterly update.
as I said this is a program and we're probably not going to be just feeding well by well as we go along here.
I think what we'll do is each quarter just put a summary together of how the program is progressing here.
We came out with our Angus well because this is our first test out here and I'm sure people wanted to hear some results and it is good to hear some of these results because it's just this whole lower bench play is evolving.
But that's kind of how we plan on doing a reporting base going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then moving on to the SCOOP.
For the 12 wells that were completed in the condensate window and the 5 in the oil window you have an average IP for each group -- each of those different groups? You know what I think we just don't have that handy Eli.
We can sure get it to you.
I don't have that.
You have anything Rick? Give me a minute I'll circle back on it.
Research Division</strong> While you're digging it up last question is on testing dual reservoir prospectivity within the SCOOP.
At the Analyst Day you had mentioned potentially drilling an upper and a lower SCOOP well to effectively drain the 400 feet of [indiscernible] you have there just looking for an update on that potential pilot well -- pilot program? We have several wells I guess that I can say that have been drilled in the upper and the lower halves of the Woodford here.
And we're also participating in an outside-operated project that has got -- I think it's 3 wells in the lower and 2 or 3 in the upper.
And so initial results are showing the wells started out at a very similar IPs and so we're pleased with the results right now.
It looks good.
Yes Eli what we're showing on the condensate is about an 830 average 8 Boe per day and oil 440 Boe per day.
Is that -- no.
What that is right there I think what you've got Rick is there's an average -- at this point we've got 52 wells in this that we have production greater than 30 days.
And so what we're dealing with there is a 30-day average.
And so out of those 52 wells 33 have an average first 30-day IP or a 30-day average rate it's right at about 835-odd barrels equivalent a day and that's in the condensate window.
In the oil window we're seeing an average of about 400 to 450 all right? So those are the first 30-day averages.
And so anyways that's -- I was trying to think that you were asking for the...
That's what we have today that's what we can get to you.
And Eli what I really should add there is what we're really impressed here and that's a point I really wanted to get across here in the discussion is that you compare the wells IPs and the performance wells within the condensate window and those within the oil window and what we're really pleased is that we're really seeing consistency in outcome in there.
That's what I'm really pleased with.
And our average model is of EUR is 1.2 and actually in the condensate window and actually our average from the outcomes is even higher than that.
But we're sticking with our original model right now because we have a small population.
But in our oil window we're also hitting right on our model as well.
So the outcomes that we're seeing this is across the middle of our 40 miles -- extends 40 miles northwest-southeast and it's about 15- 20-mile wide area.
So it's a big area big footprint and we're seeing very consistent results within the oil window when you compare oil window wells with oil window wells and then condensate wells to condensate wells.
So when we talk about consistency of results you got to consider it with -- keep in mind where they are located within the oil and condensate fairways.
But again the consistency and the performance of these wells is very encouraging.
And your next question comes from the line of Gail Nicholson from KLR Group.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions.
I was wondering what is the average lateral length in the SCOOP that you're currently drilling? We're averaging about 4 200 feet on average.
LLC Research Division</strong> And do you guys have any plans to test a longer lateral or is it right now you're just currently kind of trying to drill the whole acreage? Where we are we have our first long lateral down SCOOP underway currently.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are we looking at about a $9 million well cost for that 4 200 lateral right now? Yes.
I think we had in our budget was $9.5 million.
I'll expand a little bit.
The first lateral longer lateral was a 7 500-foot lateral and that is due to some faulting in our -- the second section if you will.
And your next question comes from the line of Dick Kindig from Keeley Asset Management.
There's an old saying in the industry the good fields just keep getting better and of course this is just an incredible resource.
Harold I'm curious you talked about 3.5% to 5% recoverability.
If you go out 10 or 20 years what would you guess the recoverability would be? Of course I realize it depends on oil prices in that regard and so what would be the hurdle price where further development halts in that play? There's 2 or 3 of course.
One of the biggest ones is density of drilling.
The other one is whether EUR will work and what form of EUR works.
We think in this tight rock that it will.
We've seen it work in other tight rock areas.
So it just remains to be proven yet.
That's one thing.
But obviously the initial recoveries are always low in these large fields.
Historically that's been the case.
And as you go on and technology advances along with development that number always tend to increase.
So 5% you're looking at 45 billion barrels.
So is that within reason I think it is.
One other question.
Have you looked into using the top full rigs lesser expensive rigs to drill the vertical part of the well before you go horizontal with a more sophisticated rig? Well what we're doing in the Bakken is we do have a smaller rig that goes out and presets our surface casing which is typically at about 2 000 feet.
Here in the SCOOP area we'll need to get our rig count up really to get that justified.
But once you have your initial surface casing set the 1 500 horsepower rigs we use that here in SCOOP they're fine.
How much of a savings can you get out of using a less expensive rig to drill the top part? Well on the top part on the surface hole we're saving about $200 000 $250 000 on each one of our Bakken wells by doing that.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Brad Hafren [ph] from RBC Capital Markets.
I just had one quick question for you on the SCOOP.
Basically how quickly you guys are going to be ramping up with the rigs there? You were at 6 as of the Analyst Day I think you're still at 6 now.
Was that just sort of letting the infrastructure catch up and how do we expect to see a change during the year? It is.
We're budgeting currently to go from 6 in the Woodford to 12 in the exiting the year in the Wood.
Those are all operated rigs.
We also got obviously non-operated.
But the operated side we're currently [indiscernible] at 6 wells.
Right.
Is that 6 expected to sort of stay the same here in the near term or are we expecting a ramp-up? Actually our seventh rig is going to be starting to move out in the next week.
And it will just slowly ramp up throughout the first half of the year.
And I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm for closing remarks.
Thank you.
I appreciate everybody joining us on the call this morning.
And try to remember the 45-year history continental has been first and foremost exploration company leading the industry and planning and developing world-class unconventional oil plays.
And we intend to continue to be the industry leader in E&amp;P development.
The future of Continental's shareholders is very bright indeed we believe.
With that I'd like to thank everybody for joining us this morning.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
Today's call will include forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
In today's call the company will refer to EBITDAX and adjusted net income per diluted share.
For a reconciliation of EBITDAX to GAAP net income and operating cash flows and for a reconciliation of adjusted net income per diluted share to GAAP net income per diluted share please refer to the section Non-GAAP Financial Measures in the first quarter earnings press release which is posted on the company's website at www.clr.com.
Mr.
Harold Hamm Chairman and CEO will begin this morning's call; followed by President and COO Rick Bott; and CFO John Hart.
After their remarks we will have a question-and-answer period.
Other members of the management are available to answer questions.
And now I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning.
Continental reported excellent results yesterday afternoon.
Our first quarter performance demonstrated the key strengths that set Continental apart as the leading E&amp;P operator.
Strong production growth focused on oil.
Continental is on track to 35% to 40% total production growth in 2013.
Positive results from our exploration programs.
We're demonstrating productivity in the Lower Three Forks formations across the Bakken.
We launched our 47-well pilot density program and we are de-risking and extending the SCOOP right here in Oklahoma.
Oil well cost.
We're improving both drilling and completion operation maximizing margins through oil and gas marketing including increased access to coastal markets for premium Bakken crude oil; and keeping transportation costs low.
And finally spending discipline.
We intend to maintain our focus on capital discipline throughout the year and our CapEx budget of $3.6 billion.
Let's go straight to the first quarter's accomplishments in each of these areas with Rick and John then I'll wrap up prior to the beginning of our Q&amp;A period.
Rick? Thanks Harold.
Let me take each of Harold's points he just mentioned in order.
First of all production growth is the first big headline for the quarter.
We achieved record net production of 121 500 barrels of oil equivalent in the first quarter a 42% increase over the first quarter of last year and a 14% higher -- 14% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012.
Crude oil accounted for 71% of first quarter 2013 production slightly ahead of plan for the quarter.
If we include NGLs we estimate our total liquids production was 80% of total production.
The Bakken continues to lead the way in the first quarter.
Bakken net production was up 60% year-over-year and 14% higher than the fourth quarter.
In the Bakken we benefited from strong well results on multiple ECO-Pad projects.
Last quarter we mentioned the Florida-Alpha project which -- where we completed 6 wells on a pad for less than $8 million per well.
IPs on the Florida-Alpha wells were amongst the strongest in the quarter with average test production of almost 1 600 barrels of oil equivalent per well over the 24-hour test periods.
At a cost of less than $8 million each these wells should generate tremendous rates of return.
Our 2 strongest Bakken wells in the quarter were the -- in the Angus area the Angus 3-9H and the Angus 2-9H-2 with peak production test rates of approximately 2 200 and 2 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively.
The Angus 3 is a Middle Bakken well and the Angus 2 is a second bench producer.
The Angus 2 was originally announced in late February with an IP rate of 1 556 barrels of oil equivalent per day but production subsequently strengthened to 2 100 barrels of oil per day upon further cleanup of the well.
In SCOOP we doubled net production compared with the fourth quarter of 2012 increasing to approximately 14 250 barrels of oil equivalent in the first quarter.
This total was about 5.5x the SCOOP production in the first quarter of 2012 and up 100% over fourth quarter 2012 reflecting increased positive completion results.
We continue to generate strong well results in SCOOP and we're excited about the outlook for this emerging play.
We will increase operated rig count in the SCOOP faster than originally planned and we are currently operating 9 rigs ahead of plan and expect to increase to 12 rigs by early third quarter instead of by the end of the year.
Note that this accelerated rig deployment involves no increase in capital expenditure.
We're benefiting from the efficiencies we've gained in the Bakken and adjusting our projects to absorb this acceleration within the current budget.
We're confident we will meet our 2012 production goal of 35% to 40% production growth as Harold mentioned.
Secondly we're seeing very positive results from exploration both in Bakken and SCOOP.
In the Bakken we announced 3 new lower bench Three Forks wells 2 new second bench wells and 1 additional third bench well.
Let's start with the second bench wells.
The Barney 2-29H-2 is a significant step-out success located in Williams County 16 miles north of the Charlotte in McKenzie County.
The Barney had a 24-hour initial production rate of approximately 1 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The Stedman 2-24H-2 was another significant second bench step-out also in Williams County but located 35 miles Northwest of the Charlotte union -- unit.
The Stedman 2-24H-2 had initial production rate of 1 030 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Finally the new third bench well the Stedman 3-24H-3 IP-ed at approximately 465 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This is an important validation of the extent of the third bench productivity as it's located almost in Montana and is performing in line with Montana Middle Bakken wells.
It fits our geologic model in that it is acting completely independent of a second bench well in the same area.
With solid results like these we are proving the prospectivity of the Lower Three Forks benches over a broad area.
Our plan is to complete a total of 20 lower bench wells in this year in Divide Dunn McKinsey and Williams Counties as part of the large-scale productivity testing program.
Our second major exploratory initiative in the Bakken involves 4 density pilot projects: 3 in 320-acre spacings and 1 is a 160-acre spacing.
Combined these projects will involve 47 wells completed in the Middle Bakken Three Forks 1 Three Forks 2 and Three Forks 3 benches.
Two 320-acre density pilots are underway.
The Hawkinson project in Dunn County was the first to spud and it has 8 wells in various stages of completion and the final 3 wells in drilling.
The Tangsrud 320-acre pilot in Divide County has 2 wells completing and 5 drilling.
The final 320-acre pilot the Rollefstad project in McKenzie County is expected to commence in late summer.
The Wahpeton 160-acre density pilot has commenced in McKenzie County with 2 wells drilling.
We expect to report results from these density pilots quarterly when all wells in each project are completed starting with the Hawkinson later this year and the final ones in the first half of 2014.
We are encouraged to see other operators following Continental's lead in conducting density and downspacing tests.
We're aware of at least 8 additional density pilots being conducted by others.
The whole industry will benefit from more well control to help de-risk this play.
Finally we're excited about the exploratory success we're seeing as we extend the SCOOP play in Oklahoma.
We participate in completing 9 net SCOOP wells since the beginning of the year with results in line with our expectations for the play.
We listed a couple of these wells and their 24-hour IP rates in our quarterly press release the Colbert at 1 769 barrels equivalent per day and the Knox at 1 151 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The third headline that Harold discussed is lower completion well cost.
We're driving down Bakken well costs with the combined effects of faster drilling cycle times more ECO-Pad projects and completion efficiencies.
We're also seeing faster cycle times and lower completion costs in the SCOOP area as well.
Last October we set a goal of reducing average operated Bakken well cost to $8.2 million by year-end representing a 10% savings from the $9.2 million in 2012.
As of today we're about 6 months ahead of schedule to accomplish our year-end target in the Bakken.
Based on field reports we believe our current average cost is $8.3 million per operated well for April wells.
The Bakken team is obviously doing a great job.
These well cost savings from improving efficiencies will allow us to drop 2 Bakken rigs and still hit our production targets for the year.
In SCOOP we set a goal of reducing costs by $500 000 per operating well by year-end 2013 and we're on track for this goal.
We produce spud-to-spud cycle times approximately 25% in SCOOP from a range of 55 to 60 days in the first half of the year to about 42 to 44 days currently.
We continue to focus on achieving these cost reduction targets to lead the capital efficiency.
The fourth headline is maximizing margins through oil and gas marketing efforts.
We continue to use a portfolio approach in marketing using both rail and pipelines to move oil out of the Bakken and SCOOP.
First quarter average oil differential was $4.29 per barrel below and favorable to our 2013 guidance range of $5 to $7 for the year.
In the first quarter approximately 80% of our operated Bakken wells were railed out of the basin.
Recently we've seen a narrowing of the Brent/WTI spread which is bringing the rail option into rough parity with pipeline alternatives.
Our task is to retain marketing flexibility and optionality in terms of future commitments.
If Brent/WTI spreads continue to converge we will look at pipeline evacuation opportunities and we'll need to see rail carriers reduce their costs to stay competitive.
We have also began to diversify how we sell our oil balancing spot selling with short-term agreements to commit set volumes of oil to specific refining customers.
On the natural gas side our first quarter differential was a positive $1.65 per Mcf better than our guidance range for the year again reflecting the liquids-rich content of our gas production.
We continue to work with midstream vendors to assure that gas takeaway and processing infrastructure is available as we bring new production online in our 2 key operating areas.
Harold will have more to say about this in his comments.
And the final headline of course is spending discipline.
We're managing operations to stay within the 2013 capital budget.
We want to bring forward as much value as possible from our oil and liquids-rich drilling inventory while at the same time maintaining financial flexibly and a strong balance sheet.
First quarter non-acquisition CapEx of $899 million was in line with our 2013 budget and reflects a number of dynamic factors.
First quarter spending included a substantial work-down at the completions that we deferred from the fourth quarter of 2012.
Of the 80 net well completions in the quarter 21 involved deferred completions from late '12.
This backlog will fluctuate throughout the year depending on the amount of pad drilling in any given quarter.
The other key dynamics involved improving cycle times and overall lower well cost as we've mentioned previously.
A key takeaway is we expect to remain on budget and in fact plan to achieve our production guidance while operating fewer drilling rigs in the Bakken.
Summarizing Continental's team performed at a very high level in the first quarter of 2013 and I want to thank them for it.
As Harold said we're very much on track to make or exceed our goals for the year.
Now let me turn it over to John Hart.
John? Thanks Rick.
I'd like to provide some color on Continental's financial streak as it relates to our growth plans.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter was $1.17 per diluted share beating the Street consensus.
We continued to increase the EBITDAX in the first quarter of '13 as well.
This time to a record $622 million up 37% from the first quarter last year and 5% above the fourth quarter of 2012.
First quarter EBITDAX was $21 million higher than Street consensus estimates.
Our cash margin was 74% for the first quarter as compared with 73% for 2012 as a whole.
Once again we confirmed Continental as a high-margin high-growth leader among our oil concentrated peers.
Continued growth of our cash flow stream is critical.
Our 5-year plan to triple production and reserves while maining top-tier debt metrics.
We support the stability of cash flow growth with a prudent hedging strategy.
Our March 31 hedge position is laid out in the Form 10-Q which we filed last night.
Approximately 61% of our 2013 expected oil production is hedged against the WTI average price of $93 and another 14% of our production is hedged against a Brent average of $109.
At the end of the first quarter we had approximately 91% of our expected 2013 natural gas production for the remainder of the year hedged against the Henry Hub price of $3.78 per Mcf.
Another strategic focus is to capitalize on the strength of our balance sheet to generate additional liquidity.
In early April we completed a highly successful $1.5 billion 4.5% senior unsecured notes offering which is due in 2023.
Part of the proceeds were used to pay down the balance on our revolver so we now have a fully undrawn $1.5 billion facility and several hundred million in cash.
As of March 31 long-term debt was $4 billion so our net debt to EBITDAX ratio was 1.8x on a trailing 12 months basis.
Looking at it on the first quarter annualized it would be 1.6x EBITDAX.
We expect cash flow to continue increasing as production ramps up through the year and as we continue to reduce well cost.
Finally in terms of our overall guidance on the year the first quarter's results are consistent with our 2013 outlook as provided at the end of February.
First quarter 2013 production expense was $5.70 per Boe a $0.20 improvement compared with the $5.90 in the fourth quarter but slightly ahead of our guidance of $5.20 to $5.60 for the full year 2013.
This is not a concern since production expense typically peaks in the winter months and then trends down through the second third and early fourth quarters.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Harold.
Thank you John.
In Continental we have the enjoyable task of reporting strong results quarter after quarter to investors who for the most part are familiar with our story and have invested with us for many years.
In the past several months however volatility in oil prices have attracted quite a few new investors who recognize the buying opportunity but were less familiar with us.
To you new investors joining us today let me say that 2013's first quarter was textbook Continental Resources.
Solid execution and focus on fundamentals this is how we judge ourselves and expect to be judged quarter after quarter year after year.
This is how we've earned our investors' confidence and how we plan to create long-term value for all of our shareholders.
So it boils down to 4 concepts.
The first one of those is growth.
Continental is a growth company with an unmatched oil and liquids-rich drilling inventory that will support decades of industry-leading growth.
We're the leading leaseholder driller and producer in the Bakken the cornerstone of America's movement towards energy independence.
We are a growth company.
Exploration.
We are explorationists always looking for the next unconventional geologic concept the next opportunity to acquire advanced horizontal drilling completion methods to produce American energy.
In the Bakken even as we're transitioning into full development mode we're exploring the depths of the play expanding production in the Lower Three Forks benches and pushing out the Bakken's geographic margins.
Continental was the first mover in realizing the potential of Middle Bakken as an unconventional oil reservoir.
Then in 2008 when the Middle Bakken became conventional wisdom we were the first to target out the benches in Three Forks.
Today based on our coring studies and exploratory drilling we're discovering the lower benches of the Three Forks testing well densities and configuration to prepare for the full development of the entire Bakken oil system.
We are an exploration company.
Third we focus intently on margins and operating excellence.
Value creation is driven as much by operating excellence as it is by premier assets.
Let me say that again value creation is driven as much by operating excellence as is by premier assets.
We face challenges but as a team of professionals dedicated to getting better constantly we work at a high-level in tough environments like North Dakota in the winter and despite these challenges we're constantly striving to improve our performance quarter after quarter.
Challenges are opportunities for leadership take oil marketing as an example.
15 months ago differential blew out when there wasn't sufficient pipeline capacity to get Bakken oil out of the basin.
Production has simply grown too fast for the system.
Continental and 1 or 2 others saw the opportunity to rail oil to Gulf Coast refineries bypassing the pipeline system and the glut at Cushing.
But Continental alone recognized the opportunity to rail Bakken oil to the East and West Coast refinery complexes and now we're expanding markets on both coasts that weren't even accessible from the Bakken in the recent past.
Operating excellence is demonstrated by our commitment to keep reducing oil cost as Rick and John mentioned but also by our commitment to protecting our people and being good stewards of the environment.
We hold ourselves to exceptional standards especially with regard to the health and safety of our employees and contractors and with regard to the overall environment that we operate in.
We're the industry leader in reducing flaring in North Dakota.
Of the last 24 Bakken well completion 23 had gas gathering lines in place and ready to go on the first day of production.
This type of green completion is standard operating procedure at Continental requiring high degree of coordination with midstream companies and state regulatory agencies as well as a lot of hard work with landowners to gain pipeline access on a timely basis.
Operating excellence represents much more than do it faster for less cost.
Our teams are committed to working with vendors contractors and regulators to working more safely and getting better at the fundamentals of energy exploration and production.
Finally the fourth key trait that defines Continental is financial discipline.
Of course we seek to lead in efficiency with [indiscernible] 74% cash margin in the first quarter and in constantly pushing the technical limits for drilling and completing wells in less time for less cost.
Beyond high-margin operations however we've developed a strategic hedging program as John described to stabilize cash flow and support our long-term growth plan.
Finally as we discussed each quarter we were disciplined in the management of our balance sheet.
A strong balance sheet is fundamental to long-term growth and value creation.
This is Continental an exceptional growth company constantly exploring for new opportunities to create value and operating at a high-level with a strong financial foundation.
Our ultimate goal is exceptional value creation for the people at Continental and for you who invest your confidence in us.
We thank you for your support and look forward to reporting additional achievements to you through the remainder of this year.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to our operator and would be glad to take any questions you might have.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Your production doubled this quarter from the previous quarter which clearly is pretty impressive here.
Just trying to get a sense of whether or not maybe some of the wells in 2012 were constrained.
I mean I know you brought 9 net wells on which didn't seem to be enough wells for me to double the production.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of what was going on previously there and whether or not there are any still constraints there in the play and how you see infrastructure developing.
Yes Leo this is Rick Muncrief.
The infrastructure buildout has been underway and our gathering companies are doing a relatively good job of keeping up with us.
We're working in conjunction with them on getting our wells drilled and completed.
We are seeing some nice results and I think that showed up in the production numbers.
We will continue to see those nice results next quarter as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
So I mean I guess did you have historical constraints on infrastructure? And is that alleviated at this point or you're just going to have to continue the buildout and you guys are just bringing production on as the buildout happens? We did have some constraints in the fourth quarter of last year but we'd work through that relatively quickly and easily.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just jumping over to the Bakken here I guess there's just been some chatter of some random flooding and weather events in North Dakota.
Obviously you got spring break up.
You guys seeing any impact on your operations thus far in 2Q and any expectations for that this quarter? Well we -- it's been a -- I'd say a fairly typical winter in North Dakota.
Last year we had a nice winter.
And in some cases that was some of the first winters that many of the operators had really worked in the Bakken.
Continental on the other hand has been up there for a long time for decades and so we understand how to operate.
We do -- we did see some impacts and even today we're seeing some small impacts with some frost walls but we're managing through that.
And I don't think it's going to be impacting us materially in a negative sense.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess in terms of the Three Forks you obviously had good step-out success 1 well 60 miles into Charlotte; 1 well 35 miles away.
Obviously you had a good result earlier in the week from EOG as well.
I mean how are you guys thinking about the Three Forks second bench on your acreage? I mean is it feasible to think of it in terms of how much is going to be de-risked for the second bench at this point would you guys be able to ballpark quantify that? Well I'll tell you Leo it's -- we're very encouraged with our results and the results of others out here.
There's -- I think there's about 6 additional wells out there that have been tested in the second bench along with ours.
And so we're starting to see the footprint really of productivity in the second bench starting to expand very quickly.
And as Rick mentioned before the first and second bench is really -- fairly uniformly developed across the basin which is -- gives us confidence in the early extent of the play.
We're expanding the play in a second bench in the Three Forks.
So I think that the results we have are really starting to substantiate or are substantiating our expectations for the second bench out here.
Your second question comes from the line of Dave Kistler of Simmons Comp.
Research Division</strong> Real quickly one kind of housekeeping item.
In the past you guys have given us current production levels as you release your quarterly results.
Can you share that with us this morning? Yes Dave we're at approximately 130 000 barrels a day equivalent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I appreciate that.
And then focusing on the decline in well cost obviously very close to hitting your target for the year early on.
Do you think about increasing that target and seeing well cost drop even further or was Q1 specifically skewed to more pad drilling that has influenced that cost? Well I think once again the pad drilling is a big impact and when you have 70% of your rigs on pads it really starts showing up.
And we did see some preliminary cost coming in last quarter that really made us feel that we were getting a good start on our goal.
However just only recently here we got to the point where we've had enough aging with our cost and we feel just confident to make the announcement we did.
So -- but we'll continue -- we'll always continue to look at driving down cost doing it the right way rightsize our cost structure.
And so we'll reevaluate where we're at.
But right now I think that we'll stick with the numbers that we've laid out.
If I can add in terms of -- just in terms reforecasting it it's probably a little too early at this point.
And some of the -- we're confident in the cost as Rick talked about for where we operate and how that's going to translate for the rest of the year.
Some of the non-off -- and we're in quite a number of non-off wells where we haven't seen the cost savings really there that others have talked about or hinted at.
And so we're looking forward to that coming through.
And if that does translate then we might be in a position to reforecast but at this point in time we're not reforecasting.
We're sticking with our original guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
One last one just to the third bench kind of thinking about the comments of your increased confidence in how the second bench has been de-risked.
When you look at -- and the obviously much smaller subset of results but when you look at the results on the third bench wells how do you think about geologically where you are today and what that looks like versus kind of the broader estimates you guys gave us at the Analyst Day in terms of what kind of opportunity set you saw in the third bench? Sure.
The third bench -- I mean really what we're seeing right now is we've got -- we have 2 completions at this point in the third bench.
So it's really early to make some broad conclusions about where -- what we're going to see out of the Three Forks 3 here.
But our second test here came on for 465 barrels a day and that is modest compared to our original -- our first completion at the Charlotte that came on for 953 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
And Charlotte well is producing very nicely.
It's done about 55 000 barrels in its first 5.5 months of production so it looks real strong.
And so the contrast between the outcomes there suggest that what we're seeing at least between those 2 wells is -- 35 miles between them the Stedman is out here on the Montana border that as you go out to the west and head towards the edge of the basin we're starting to maybe see the reservoir quality of the third bench vary -- become a little more variable.
And that fits our geologic model.
We anticipated that more centrally located in the basin you're going to see more continuity in the third bench.
And as you move out to the flanks you start picking up some more anhydrite and some -- you get some things that basically degrade the quality of the reservoir in some areas.
So actually what we're seeing is kind of in line with our expectations initially here.
And so I'll also mention to you something very significant here is that in the Stedman section we've drilled and reported that we completed the second bench and a third bench test this quarter.
Well those 2 wells are 3 300 feet apart.
And the interesting thing is the contrast in the productivity for the second bench versus the third bench.
And if you look at the second bench you see it came on for 1 030 barrels a day the third bench came on for 4 065.
Well that contrast there I think directly indicates that we're looking at wells that are performing differently and the reason they're performing differently is because these reservoir rocks are acting independently.
And that's one of the things we've been trying to prove.
One thing on our 22-rig -- our exploration well program out here is to demonstrate the extent of the productivity of these zones.
But the other is to demonstrate that we have incremental reserves from these individual second third and fourth benches to the overall play.
So the significance of the difference in production there to me is that we are seeing that these layers are acting as independent reservoirs.
Now we need to continue to work this and to build more evidence of that.
But that's -- another thing it fits our model for these lower benches.
So things are really kind of developing along the lines of our original expectations out here.
And we'll continue to keep you posted.
We're -- we got about 30% of our wells that we've got planned on production and about 40% in our exploration program in the completion phase and then we've got about 30% more obviously to drill.
But we'll just continue to deliver results to you as we go here.
You're basically -- in this exploration program with us here we're kind of giving you the play-by-play as we go but I really think we've got some really good outcomes here.
Dave let me add one point -- if I could add one point to that.
From the beginning we invited you guys to look at this as a program.
And we said there'll be some variability in results there'll be some variability across areas and so we're reporting that variability as we go along.
But as Jack said it still does fit our model.
And as to your question -- your final question is how does it impact the overall resource potential that we talked about in our Analyst Day? We're still pretty excited that we're on track to realize within that range.
So we're pretty upbeat about these deeper benches.
The distance -- I'm just going to mention one other thing that just to keep in perspective these wells are very far -- spaced very far apart.
I mean the northernmost wells to the southernmost wells is 80 miles and then -- and east to west is about 50 miles.
So the footprint that we're demonstrating here these tests are providing remarkably similar results given the widespread nature of the location.
So that's another very encouraging point for the play.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I guess I've got a couple of follow-ups on the Three Forks.
I'm kind of trying to understand the relative economics of Three Forks versus particularly on the Montana side of the Bakken.
And what I'm really trying to get at is assuming the Three Forks delineation and exploration program works as predicted how would you think about reallocating your rig program between the Montana and the Bakken side in terms of attacking the deeper and perhaps more economic Three Forks? And I've got a couple of follow-ups for you.
I think it's -- that's a good question.
I think with only the limited number of tests we have at this point in time I don't think it's really -- it's not the appropriate time to talk about reallocation of where our rigs are going to be going.
I think that the end of the day we will focus on the highest rate of return projects and make sure that we're bringing those forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so before the end of this year I guess -- but I mean I guess my point is would you look to move the rig count up or reallocate within the portfolio? Oh current plan is to reallocate within the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
I guess thinking to a similar kind of question the cost you've given us on -- the targets for the year for the well cost in the Bakken how will the cost -- I realize there's exploration obviously but how are the costs in the deeper -- the Three Forks sections comparing to the baseline targets you have? I imagine it a little higher given the exploration mode but what do you think on a run rate basis the incremental would be? Doug the run rate -- the incremental cost for these deeper benches remember we're not talking much deeper from a TVD standpoint.
It's virtually the same cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question I guess this one is for John.
John you mentioned the hedging program and the percentage of TI versus Brent hedging I guess.
But it seems to us listening to what the refiners are saying that you are leading the charge in moving crude to the course so I'm just kind of curious as to -- from a marketing standpoint how do you expect your benchmark oil prices to evolve from -- currently you're I guess about 60% hedged against TI.
But do you expect that to move increasingly more towards Brent-type realizations and I'll -- in your Brent minus transportation obviously.
And I'll leave it at that.
Okay.
It has -- our hedging program certainly has moved more towards Brent.
The WTI positions in '13 would put on -- in some cases 2 years ago;  In other cases more narrow.
We began shifting more to a balance in a stronger orientation towards the Brent.
So as you move into '14 Brent is larger than WTI in terms of our total hedge portfolio.
That shifts -- the markets you're going to shifts from month-to-month.
It shifts from the amount of rail the amount of pipeline.
And I think that flexibility between those 2 will continue to be in place.
So we attempt to be adaptive in our hedging approach and to the instruments that we're using.
Research Division</strong> John is it kind of a Brent minus pricing that you're getting right now? And if so can you tell us what the transportation cost is? We don't speak to our transportation costs.
You certainly see plenty of others that are out there with their views of transportation cost to different markets that's a very competitive market and we are a leader in that market.
So it's something that is proprietary to us.
However -- give me the initial part of your question again? Research Division</strong> Well I was really just trying to understand to what proportion of the -- your production is going to end up being linked to Brent relative to more localized TI over time? Yes I think that as we access these coastal markets and continue to -- we're -- like you said work out for Brent price minus transportation for the most part.
Doug let me add one point however.
You have to sort of take off the blinders in terms of what benchmark the Bakken sells for.
Because I don't know some time this summer at third quarter Bakken total basin production will exceed the entire 40s Brent basket in terms of the volumes of production.
And so as we've talked about before essentially the Bakken will -- when it gets to 1 million to 1.5 million barrels a day the Bakken will essentially be kind of that North American benchmark.
The next question comes from the line of Brian Corales of Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions primarily on the SCOOP.
You kind of averaged 25% oil.
Is that just going to kind of the light condensate side? Is that how you all drilled this quarter? Is that going to increase going forward? Can you maybe elaborate a little bit? Yes it has to do with the particular thoroughfare where we are HBP-ing our acreage and that really is just driven by the timing of when we acquire that acreage and when we need to make sure we HBP it.
So if you remember we talked about consistent results within a band of the condensate fairway and consistent results within the oil thoroughfare.
So we invite you to compare them within fairways but not really across fairways.
And so the amount of oil in there is really having to do with which fairway that well was in and that's driven really by our HBP.
I was just going to mention the fact that in Q1 our focus -- we did focus on the condensate window for leasehold considerations.
And so all of our drilling in all the reports that we have are really from wells in the condensate window.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much of that 230 000 acres has been -- do you think has been de-risked today? We haven't put a number on it as such but we've got production at pretty much through the extent of it so I don't know we can get back with you on that number.
We're probably -- if I was guessing and that's what we're doing right this moment would be about 1/2 of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then great job on the well cost in the Bakken.
Can you talk about what the average well or what a well -- how many wells a rig can drill each year now that most of the -- your rigs are on pads? Brian that is going to range from probably in the 14 -- plus or minus 14 to 15 wells per year.
If you look at just the last -- just to give you a sense of the cycle time improvement on our -- from a year ago Q1 '12 to Q1 of '13 25% improvement of spud to TD 28% improvement in our days in the lateral 22% improvement in vertical days 33% average footage per day and the cost per foot by 28%.
So when you start looking at that and we look at our rig releases the first quarter of 2012 we had -- with 25 rigs running we had 66 rig releases; in the first quarter of this year with only 22 rigs running we had 71 rig releases.
So I think it really speaks to the efficiencies.
Research Division</strong> So could we see even further -- dropping further rigs maybe in the second half? I think that the 20 rig count is about where we need to be to -- and remember we're going to be looking at most of our -- the bulk of our rig count is on pads and so they're going to be there awhile.
The next question comes from the line of Rudy Hokanson of Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarifications or maybe a little bit more on the questions that you've already been answering.
One on the number of rigs that are on pads do you see that percentage going up much or because of your current program do you see it staying at about I believe it's 70%? Well that's a good question.
Let me say it this way we're balancing 2 sides of the table.
Jack's side of the table who's expanding and extending the play and Rick's side of the table which is driving those efficiencies.
So it's really going to fluctuate in terms of what we have out there in terms of new ideas we want to test; continue to HBP our acreage we'll continue in the Bakken; acreage that we've added we've added acreage and continue to add acreage; and then that balance of moving to full-scale production.
So I'd say for 2013 expect it to continue to fluctuate.
But it's going to be in around in that range of plus or minus 5% on pads.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was just wondering and I know this is hard to call but do you see the progress on the lower bench programs and -- in terms of when you'll be having different wells coming on production or being completed et cetera? Do you see that as being fairly even over the next 3 quarters as far as when you discuss them should we expect about the same number each quarter or do you see perhaps that the bulk of it might be done by the end of the third quarter? Well I think that we'll have these done by the end of the year.
And so we're going to have -- each quarter we're going to have probably as you have said about the same number of wells we report each quarter.
It -- like I said we had -- at this point I'd say we've got -- as I recall we've got what 7 wells that we're completing right now 7 to be drilled and 2 that we are drilling as you can see in our press release there.
And so we're -- 30% of them are producing; we've got another 70% to get completed and online.
And so -- but we'll have all those reported here by year-end.
Would you say Rick? Year-end first quarter you bet.
And Rudy one last point and no one's asked it.
But we do have a couple of fourth bench wells in the program as we've talked about and is in our press release.
And those unfortunately haven't been released yet.
Some of them we're still completing because they're on pads and it's just taking a bit longer.
The next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Josh Silverstein for Ryan here.
Just wanted to go back to some of the marketing and rail questions from before.
Of the 80% that you guys are saying you're moving on rail I was curious if there was a percentage that's actually going direct to the refinery versus kind of the spot market to shippers? We're not putting any barrels to spot market on shippers; it's all going to refinery clients at the other end.
So we're not using middle marketing.
We make our own market as to refiners at the various coasts.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then when you talk about the flexibility and the short-term nature of the contracts are these week-to-week or month-to-month? And what's -- if there are longer-term contracts within there is there an ability to terminate those quickly or how can you guys kind of increase the flexibility within there to take advantage of the spreads? Well there's just so much you can do right now.
You can switch some from the rail back to pipe.
And I think that's what you're alluding to but there's a limited amount of pipe today that will be -- begin to go away in about 12 months from now when the pipes from the region move out.
Back to your original question on the length -- the term of our contracts we don't discuss our commercial terms.
But for the most part where we have any term they're staggered so we can step out of these fairly quickly and we stay fairly nimble on that.
The next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you repeat how many Bakken completions you had this quarter? Yes.
Yes it's in our release.
Let's see.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wasn't sure if that was wells drilled or wells completed.
It should've been [indiscernible] I believe there was 6 -- let's see 66.
Yes.
66.
You're right.
66 wells that were completed.
And to give you a little color there we had -- we did have a backlog of completions to do coming out of the fourth quarter.
As you recall we employed some discipline on our CapEx and we made sure that we stayed within our budget last year.
And in doing so we had to back off some of our completions.
So we went from a 5 completion crew operation in the Bakken to 3 in the fourth quarter.
In the first quarter we started catching up and peak that to 6 completion crews through most of the quarter so that's why that rig count was -- is high as it was.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
In SCOOP 2 questions there.
One is are you drilling -- have you eliminated the string casing there? And second what is the sort of the range of cost you're experiencing? Well currently we have not eliminated.
We still have our casing string.
Typically we'll be intermediate and then we'll drill out intermediate down to kickoff point and then drill our lateral run $5.5 million all the way back to surface.
And the range that we've seen thus far on a completed well cost have been in the $8.5 million to -- I think the high end was $10.5 million on most wells with these mechanical issues were -- we have.
But $8.5 million has been -- where we've been thus far on a 1-mile lateral.
We are in the process of completing our first 2-mile lateral down there about halfway through on the completion.
And next quarter we should have some results there.
We're going to have handful more of 2-mile wells to drill.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And what are the impediments to removing a string there? Do you think that just won't be achievable or something that you'll work on eventually? Well I need to understand what string you're talking about removing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it said the intermediate.
I think a competitor has said they're -- they've got 2 strings running through.
They eliminated 1 saving about $0.5 million.
And I think they also suggested that they might switch to different mud base system I suspect oil to water to save even some more money for completion.
So I was curious if any of that is relevant to your experience.
We have not changed the casing design at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Next question is in the Lower Three Forks have you done microseismic yet on any of these wells or are there plans? There are plans as part of these large downspacing pilots to look at with microseismic and confirm and/or develop new models in terms of where the fracs are going.
So yes there are plans.
We haven't started in any of those yet.
They're in some of these programs that are just getting started.
Your next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng.
Research Division</strong> This is Hsulin Peng from Robert Baird.
So my question is regarding pad drilling.
I was wondering if you can talk about the number of wells that you generally complete at one time for pad drilling such that you can size the appropriate gathering line to make sure that production gets into the pipe.
Yes we work in conjunction with our gathering companies and very seldom will we have the wells or pads bringing on that we have long-term impacts from the ability to take all the gas minimize flaring.
In some cases we do have a -- situations arise where we have to pinch our wells back not flow it to maximum capability to minimize flaring.
And that's something that's extremely high on our list.
That's kind of a -- maybe a max a quarterly impact.
I think the midstream companies have been good at coming in there and understanding that looping lines adding compression where they need to to make sure that we're able to get that back up.
So it's not a major material issue.
It's something that's kind of worked at the field level between our operations guys our marketing crew logistics guys and then the midstream partner whoever that might be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you don't really have to choke too much production back just to make -- for the capacity of the pipe? No it's not -- not materially no.
Not usually.
And the way we do that is essentially we know how many wells we're going to drill how long the rig is going to be there how many we're going to drill and what we expect to get out of that when we sit down and talk to the midstream partners.
And as we've said and Harold mentioned we sort of lead the industry because we don't necessarily drill an area if we don't have that hooked up.
And so that we can make sure we minimize that flaring and environmental impact as a result of it.
So that's kind of our go no-go area.
And we've got so much acreage and so much activity that we can move around rigs and reschedule as we need to if the midstream partners got some delays in a particular area but we haven't -- it's not a real material impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then my second question is regarding the expiration of wells in the SCOOP area now that you're drilling 55 from the 41 net wells before.
That's -- I mean if it's calling at around $9.5 million well cost it's well around $130 million I guess cost increase.
But you -- obviously you're not increasing your '13 CapEx.
So I was wondering if you are anticipating more cost reduction in the SCOOP area or do you anticipate allocating some capital spend elsewhere? We are anticipating and we're starting to see the cost reduction to the SCOOP area.
And as we said in our note we are reallocating so we're sticking within that budget.
The savings that we're getting from the efficiencies in the Bakken are being translated into both our key areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so with the additional wells in the SCOOP and the Bakken it seems like there potentially is upward bias in your '13 production guidance? Is that correct? Well we're in May we're sticking within our range.
I think we try to -- we model our range around our midpoint which is a stochastic analysis of what we think those wells are going to get.
So I think that's kind of up to you guys to determine whether or not we'll be at the high end or low of that but we're saying that that range is still a good number to guide to.
The next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> The -- my first question I guess thinking about the SCOOP we had fortunately some improvement in dry gas prices over the last couple of months or so.
Compared to your thinking earlier in the year has that sort of affected I guess the pace that you're going to pursue the SCOOP at as you look into the rest of the year and into next year? Well I wouldn't say it's due to natural gas prices.
I think it's due to what the rocks are telling us.
So we're bullish about the area.
We're HBP-ing any acreage.
That's what's driving the schedule that we have now and we're pleased with the results.
Yes we're getting a little bit higher margin out of that as a result of the gas prices so that's good news for us.
But it's not necessarily the driver for activity.
It's really what the rocks are telling us.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And along the same line with oil strengthening and gas we've seen NGLs continue to struggle.
Maybe the question that would be as you look at the different product mix in different parts of the SCOOP or different parts of the region does that have an effect on sort of what part of the area could you might be most aggressive on earliest? No not really.
Again it's that HBP schedule when we acquire the acreage and when we need to make sure we drill it and geologically what is -- what area do we need to drill in to answer the appropriate questions to help us de-risk and/or bring that value forward with a fulfilled development plan.
So that's really the goal here.
I would suppose you need a considerably higher movement in gas prices or NGLs for us to change that significantly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So essentially the product mix at this stage isn't really material to the plans? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And moving to the Bakken for a second you talked a lot about the Three Forks the deeper benches and just what you're seeing across it.
As I look to sort of trying to model the additional upside you might see from lower benches as you move across the basin is there any variability after the chances for communication between the different benches or is that something that just geologically is going to be pretty consistent? In other words do you still have any questions out there about communication between the benches? Well Noel it's a good question.
And that's part of our process here to our exploration program is to define just those types of -- and basically to confirm those questions.
We -- like I said we want to demonstrate #1 productivity and we're doing that on a widespread basis.
We've already expanded it out to -- all the way to the Montana border at this point showing that the second third benches produce out that far.
And so the next step obviously is we want to confirm and we're in the process of doing that with the additional drilling we're doing here.
That is there -- are these incremental reserves that we're getting or are these zones communicating and as I've mentioned earlier we're encouraged with the results we're seeing at this point saying that we're seeing these zones evidence that they're acting independently.
And then the other thing is that we're really just going to -- with these type of -- with the inventory that we've got out here of opportunities we'll just continue to do the test and monitor increase densities that we're doing and combine that with these step-outs that we're doing in this exploratory program to really come up with a conclusion.
In the next 12 months we hope to have some ideas and some confidence in what we're seeing out there.
We're confident about the outcomes that we've seen at this point.
But we need to just get some more evidence.
All right? Research Division</strong> Great.
And sorry if you -- I'm not sure if you commented on this already today but compared to the Charlotte wells your earliest ones to the lower benches how -- can you just sort of remind us what the 30 and 60 day IPs look like in those -- in the Charlotte wells? And then for I guess the earliest of your most recent set where -- how did it perform relative to sort of that early curve? Noel what we should do is go -- I think that's in our press release in terms of what -- how much total volume so you can divide that by days.
But we'll work that out and it get back to you.
Research Division</strong> Right yes.
I think you gave [indiscernible] production for the whole -- yes for the life of the well.
We just were kind of curious what the early days so -- yes if someone would get back to me that'd be great.
Yes I think the headline there that you're looking for the headline is that those wells are very much in line with what our expectations where very much in line with the Middle Bakken and the Three Forks 1 in that area.
And also remember these are all a stochastic range around our average model our 603 model.
It's a little bit different over in Montana.
So that's -- they're within that range and they're still holding up and sort of fitting that trend.
So I'll just make one point though.
In an effort to keep our call around 1 hour and in respect to all the other companies who're reporting today we'll take 2 more questions.
The next question comes from the line of Paul Grigel of Macquarie.
At your Analyst Day back in October you spoke to increasing rig count to 50 in 2014.
Given some of the efficiencies you've seen and the discussion on capital discipline how should we be thinking about the capital plan beyond 2013? Great question.
We're taking a look at that right now and remodeling these efficiencies that we've seen into our 5-year plan.
So it may be exactly as Rick Muncrief sort of alluded to there earlier that we will need fewer rigs over the entire development to achieve what we want to do in terms of production.
And -- but broadly the capital amount would stay fairly constant at that point in time? That's right.
I think that's kind of our plan is to keep that capital in a reasonable line and stay within those debt metrics that we've guided to.
Okay.
And just following up on that previously you guys have made comments about accelerating activity at higher oil prices generally above $95 for WTI.
Is that something that's still possible this year or should we view this as $36 is pretty fixed? We don't have any intention to stepping it up.
We're going to stay within our capital guidance and stay within budget.
Okay.
And then lastly just touching on the takeaway capacity issues what kind of pipeline availability is there? I think Rick touched on it just briefly saying it may go away over the next 12 months.
But if you were to have rail economics be no longer advantageous what pipeline capacity could you step into? I want to talk first of all to overall capacity.
And then I'll let Jeff talk to the pipeline capacity.
One thing that people may or -- I hope everybody's got an understanding of this that what rail has done up here is basically eliminate the overall capacity constraints.
I mean that's been a great thing about it if you can ship everything you produce.
So the overall capacity constraint has been relieved.
Jeff you want to talk about the pipeline? Yes on the overall pipeline capacity starting next fall we'll see capacity start opening up.
The Pony Express line will come on going to the east.
Probably before that we'll see Enbridge expanding their system to move oil out of Clearbrook up their Line 9 which will feed the Great Lakes area.
That's going improve that market and I think probably start to swing some of the barrels to the east.
And then after that we have additional capacity expansion that we'll be bringing it out of the Bakken on pipe.
And then what you're going to see though is the rail as Harold spoke is well built out and we're seeing every day -- this morning there's another announcement on a refiner building rail receipt points.
So the refiners are going to compete for the barrel; they're going to have a rail transportation component.
The folks on the pipe are going to have a pipe transportation component.
We're going to have a flux for the next 1.5 years or so which market's the best we're going to try to position our barrels in the best market.
But in the endgame you're going to see these come close come into parity.
And you're going to have good transportation to the -- all 3 coasts and the midcontinent with a combination of rail and pipe.
And you're going to grow a rate to a reasonable price.
They're going to have to do that or the barrels will flow because there'll be enough capacity within 2 years to move huge amount of barrels out by pipe as well as by rail.
So some flux for the next 18 months and then we'll see more stabilized pricing in the differential -- on the differential front yes.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Harold Hamm for closing remarks.
Thank you today for -- everybody for your questions and for joining us.
And we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you for joining.
Have a very good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Continental Resources Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to John Kilgallon.
Thanks Lacey and good morning and welcome to the Continental Resources Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This is John Kilgallon Director of Investor Relations.
Joining me on the call this morning with prepared remarks are Harold Hamm Founder Chairman and Chief Operating officer; Rick Bott President and Chief Operating Officer; Rick Muncrief Senior Vice President of Operations; John Hart Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
And also available during the Q&amp;A session will be Jack Stark Senior Vice President of Exploration; and Warren Henry Vice President of Investor Relations.
A few housekeeping items that we'll cover before going into the forward-looking statement.
In conjunction with the earnings and our call this morning we have posted a summary presentation as a reference tool.
This presentation can be found on our website in the For Investors section under Presentations.
The slides are also included in the webcast portal for your viewing during the call.
If you have not printed yet I recommend you do so now.
You may have also noticed we've added a few quick links to the homepage in the upper left-hand corner to make all the earnings data easier to find.
Today's call will include forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results will likely differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
In today's call the company will refer to EBITDAX and adjusted net income per diluted share.
For a reconciliation of EBITDAX to GAAP net income and operating cash flows and a reconciliation of adjusted net income per diluted share to GAAP net income per diluted share please refer to the section of Non-GAAP financial measures in the second quarter earnings release at the conclusion which is posted on our website at www.clr.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Harold.
Harold? Good morning.
Thank you for joining us today.
We are pleased to report strong performance for our second quarter ended June 30 including record production and cash flow.
The key of course was excellent production growth.
Second quarter production averaged 135 700 Boepd up 43% from the second quarter of 2012.
This production growth and additional operating efficiencies resulted in record EBITDAX of $708 million up 14% from the first quarter of 2013 and 68% higher than the second quarter of 2012.
You could refer to the first slide of our presentation.
I won't go through each bullet point and be brief here.
And then also on the second slide aside from increased production the other benefit of our industry-leading drilling program is increased proved reserves.
Our mid-year estimate of 922 million barrels of oil equivalent in proved reserves represents a 17% increase over year-end 2012 proved reserves of 785 million Boe.
Consistent with our value creation model and focus on crude oil these major reserves are 87% operated and 70% oil.
In fact our estimate of proved reserves has more than doubled in the past 24 months.
Finally the Continental team is executing our growth program while improving capital efficiencies and staying within our 2013 capital budget.
At June 30 we spent half of our non-acquisition CapEx budget for the year.
So first I give the team very high marks for their performance in the first half.
They are executing at a very high level.
Second Continental is poised for strong performance in the second half of 2013 and extending into 2014 with the opportunity to create even greater shareholder value.
We plan to maintain excellent performance completing 2013 as a great first year in a 5-year growth plan.
Last October you may remember we shared with you this new 5-year plan focused on building shareholder value by once again tripling production and proved reserves.
Key objectives for that are: one accelerating development of our oil-rich inventory; two capitalizing on our excellent growth platforms in the Bakken and SCOOP play in Oklahoma; three generating new opportunities to drive future growth; four increasing cash flow growth by lowering operating cost and maximizing netback value of the oil and gas we sell; and finally preserving the flexibility and strength of our balance sheet by moderating our level of spend.
We set aggressive first-year targets.
And as I said we expect to achieve them all.
We're off to a great start.
Now I'll turn it over to Rick Bott our President.
Rick? Thanks Harold.
I've got 2 objectives.
I want to expand on our operating results a bit and then update you on several of our key catalysts for the remainder of the year and early 2014.
First we've set a consistent pace through the first and second quarters of the year with 42% higher production growth compared to the first half of 2012.
We're currently as of today maintaining our strong momentum with current production slightly in excess of 140 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our third quarter production growth rate however is slowing slightly as planned as we and other operators shift to pad drilling and larger pads in the Bakken.
The net effect should be to boost production significantly in the fourth quarter and early 2014 compared with the third quarter of 2013.
In summary our 2013 production flow of 35% to 40% growth year-over-year can be tightened and moved upward.
We're probably headed for the upper end of the target range and will likely generate 38% to 40% production growth this year compared to last year.
Note as Harold mentioned this is with no increase in CapEx.
Next we have spoken frequently in the past year about strategic importance of Continental's portfolio strategy in oil and gas marketing especially the development of strong coastal markets for Bakken crude oil.
As the production leader in the Bakken we also led the way by increasing the use of rail and pipeline alternatives throughout North America but especially in the U.S.
Our strategy has passed the test.
We continue to balance medium-term commitments with the ability to sell to spot prices.
We continue to implement this portfolio approach to balance rail and pipe transport from the Williston.
In August rail is expected to account for approximately 75% of Bakken shipments.
We continue to cultivate new rail customers on the East West and Gulf Coast to capture the best price as their appetite increases for the premium Bakken barrel.
Finally volatility will likely be an ongoing factor in the oil markets and we will adapt to it.
Now let's look at key catalysts on the horizon primarily related to our Bakken exploration program and further delineation and new opportunities in SCOOP.
So let me start with the Bakken.
You may want to refer to Slide 5 in the slide deck as we discuss the Lower Three Forks exploration program.
We're on target to have all of this year's 20 wells completed by year-end bringing the total program to 22 wells.
To recap our Lower Three Forks exploration program was designed to: one establish commercial productivity from the TF2 TF3 and TF4 that means the second third and fourth benches; secondly do this over a broad area; and third try to determine if this production and associated reserves are incremental to the field.
During 2013 we have completed 14 of the 22 well program and have 4 wells completing 1 well drilling and 3 waiting to be drilled.
It's also worth noting that other operators have completed 5 Lower Three Forks wells in the Bakken as well.
All of these new wells in the Lower Three Forks define a productive footprint covering approximately 3 800 square miles of the play.
Our operated TF2 wells have averaged 1 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day in their one-day tests and the TF3 wells have averaged 970 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our Lower Three Forks exploration program in the second quarter of 2013 also included 2 TF4 tests one in the Farver spacing unit in the North and another in the Colter spacing unit in the South.
The Farver 2-29H-4 is located in Divide County and it was completed drilling 480 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This early production level is reasonable given that nearby cores show a thinner dolomite layer.
The Farver TF4 well was drilled 160 feet below the TF1 and provides further evidence that the Lower Three Forks reservoirs add to the volume of oil in place in the Bakken field although it is too early to determine if the TF4 in this area will ultimately be commercial.
Continental has less than 120 days of production history in the majority of our Lower Three Forks wells but in general early day to indicate these wells are producing in line with typical TF1 producers in each of the respective areas some better some worse as you would expect comparing it to core data.
But on average they are in line with TF wells in that area.
To-date we've tested 6 areas in our Lower Three Forks exploration program for productivity and production interference as shown on Slide 5.
Five of these areas have shown no evidence of production interference.
The Charlotte spacing unit is one example of these.
Slide 6 shows the location and wells drilled in the Charlotte unit where we drilled TF2 and TF3 producers and then came back and drilled a well in each of the Middle Bakken TF1 and TF2 intervals to test for production interference.
The one exception is the Colter spacing unit in Dunn County.
The Colter unit is shown on Slide 7.
On the east side of Colter unit we see direct evidence of production interference between legacy wells and the Middle Bakken and TF1 and the new wells drilled in TF2 and TF4 zones.
As we completed the new TF2 and TF4 wells the Colter 3-14H-2 and the 4-14-H4 we observed reduced reservoir pressure.
We believe the pressure drawdown is related to the Middle Bakken and TF1 wells above them which combined have already produced 530 000 barrels of oil equivalent to-date.
Slide 7 gives a stylized representation of our interpretation.
All 4 wells are vertically aligned within a 660-foot window.
We believe this specific location is an anomaly.
And we postulate the natural vertical fracturing has connected the Bakken and the Lower Three Forks reservoirs in this 1 280-acre spacing unit.
The Colter unit is an area of the Nesson Anticline where there's been more pronounced tectonic activity and therefore increased levels of natural vertical fracturing associated with this faulting.
The Colter TF2 and TF4 wells are being put on pump.
And we will need a few more months of production history to determine if these wells are commercial.
Now finally we completed the fifth Colter producer in June on the west side of the unit.
And it's a strong well.
The Colter 5-14H-3 in the TF3 is flowing from virgin reservoir producing 750 barrels of oil equivalent per day at 3 200 psi in its initial test period.
This shows you that this well 1 350 feet away was not connected to the fracture system.
As to our early conclusions we expect relatively high recovery rates in the Colter unit and may need -- actually need fewer wells to effectively drain areas like this where there is enhanced natural fracturing.
So in summarizing our results to-date versus what we set out to do in this program firstly we have confirmed the resource tank i.e.
the production capability of the reservoirs.
We've confirmed it's filled with oil.
We've confirmed it's not filled with water.
It is looking commercial over a very large geographic area where we at least -- where we think that at least 1 in many areas 2 of these deeper benches will be commercially productive.
And third in some areas natural fraction will enhance recovery and require less capital to actually develop.
So looking ahead to the second half we have about 1/3 of the program left.
And you should expect us to complete the 8 remaining wells in the Lower Three Forks exploration program and then discuss the results with you.
The other significant part of our Bakken exploration program involves 4 density pilot projects comprising a total of 47 gross wells.
These are testing full development at the Middle Bakken TF1 TF2 and TF3 reservoirs on 320-acre spacing in 3 units and on a 160-acre spacing in 1 unit.
The location of these spacing tests are again shown in the map on Slide 5.
320-acre spacing involves wells separated by 1 320 feet within zone and offset 660 feet from adjoining zones above and below.
In our 160-acre spacing pilot projects wells are 60 feet apart and offset 330 feet from adjoining zones.
All 4 pilot projects are proceeding according to plan.
Slide 5 also notes there are 7 other density pilots of varying spacings announced by other operators which will help all of us better understand the optimal spacing in each area of the play.
The Hawkinson 320-spacing pilot is our first pilot to enter the completion phase.
All 11 wells on the pad are now drilled.
And we are starting the completion process.
Completion efforts are being monitored by a cutting-edge microseismic program which compromised -- which promises to give us additional data to understand how well we are accessing the reservoir.
The microseismic program has set many firsts for our industry and is so far as we can confirm the largest monitoring program to-date for unconventional reservoirs worldwide.
As an example one of these firsts is the simultaneously monitoring of fracs through 3 surrounding horizontal wellbores.
This provides exceptional triangulation capability for accurately mapping fractures propagated by the fracture treatment.
We are also in the process of shooting 150 square miles of proprietary 3D seismic over the Hawkinson site to further evaluation of the project.
We expect to turn these wells to production in November and have our initial interpretation of microseismic results around year-end.
Next will likely be the Tangsrud density project a 12-well test on 320-acre spacing in Divide County.
We expect to report initial results in that production from Tangsrud in January 2014.
Finally we have the Wahpeton and Rollefstad projects.
The Wahpeton pilot is a 13-well test on 160-acre spacing.
So wells again are spaced 660 feet apart in-zone or twice the well density of the other projects.
The Wahpeton is in the North Central McKenzie County near the Charlotte unit.
The final 320-acre density pilot is the Rollefstad which involves 11 wells and is also located in McKenzie County.
We expect to have initial results from both the Wahpeton-Rollefstad projects in late first quarter of 2014.
And finally referring to Slide 8 let's discuss the upcoming catalysts in SCOOP play in Oklahoma.
We generated very strong production growth in SCOOP this year a trend that should be sustained as we ramp up our drilling program from the current 10 operator rigs to 12 rigs this quarter.
In total we have participated in completing 93 gross or 50 net wells.
We're encouraged with the results and feel confident we have now confirmed a productive footprint of approximately 40 miles north northwest to south southeast in the play.
Along with stellar well results in the second quarter we completed our first cross-unit lateral well in the condensate fairway of SCOOP the Singer 1-18-7XH well in Grady County.
This Singer well had a lateral of approximately 9 400 feet in length.
The Singer flowed 1 915 barrels of oil equivalent per day in its initial 24-hour test 37% of which was crude oil.
Several other excellent wells are shown in the slide indicating a prolific trend.
The SCOOP's catalysts for the rest of 2013 will include more long laterals and further delineation for another 40 miles south into the play.
Rick Muncrief will have more to say about the long laterals versus short laterals economics in SCOOP in just a moment.
So in summary as Harold mentioned we need to thank our employees for the great quarter.
And then looking into the future we clearly have multiple catalysts over the next 10 to 12 months.
And that means multiple opportunities to drive additional shareholder value for those who have invested with us.
Now I'll turn the call over to our Senior VP of Operations to discuss further opportunities lower well costs and enhanced capital efficiency.
Rick? Thanks Rick.
As you no doubt recognize from our earnings report the Bakken SCOOP Red River units and new venture teams are performing very well continuing to reduce well costs strengthen our capital efficiency manage our base assets and identify new opportunities.
The operating group is executing our growth plan at an exceptionally high level.
But in addition to production growth and lower well costs the Continental team is steadily improving our safety performance.
Continental's safety program encompasses not only our own employees in the office and the field but also the people who work for us as contractors in drilling well completion production and other key activities.
We also remain an industry leader in the Bakken with regard to reduced flaring consistently experience a rate that is 1/3 of the industry average in North Dakota.
Now let's talk about improved operated well cost.
Last October if you recall we set a goal of achieving an $8.2 million completed well cost by year-end 2013.
This compares to our 2012 average of $9.2 million completed well cost for a single Continental-operated well and compares favorably with the $11.3 million per well that we experienced from outside-operated wells.
We have now hit our $8.2 million target 6 months early.
And we anticipate consistently delivering operated wells for $8 million or less.
Thus this is our revised target for year-end 2013.
I'd also like to note that our completed operated well costs include oil drilling completion facilities and artificial lift.
Some operators in the play don't include all of these in the well cost figures that they discuss with the analysts in Wall Street.
Looking ahead keep your eye on several key trends as we seek to achieve our $8 million target cost.
On the positive side drilling cycle times in the Bakken continue to come down as we move to more pad drilling and as our record improves in key performance indicators like geosteering downhole motor performance and bit technology.
We've reduced our drilling spud to TD cycle time by 20% or 4 days from the second quarter of last year to the second quarter of 2013.
Our average lateral drilling time has improved by 30%.
And the time and cost of rig moves has been reduced significantly as we've transitioned to more pad drilling.
We're also working to reduce costs in such areas as site construction equipment and tool rentals and completion material cost.
We're focusing intently on our supply chain management as our activities continue to ramp up.
With 70% of our operated rig fleet on multi-well pads we expect additional cycle time and cost improvements.
On top of our efforts our midstream partners are doing a great job building out infrastructure ahead of large pad projects so we can maximize the delivery and sales of produced oil and gas.
Those are the positives working in our favor.
There are also trends in the other direction.
Completion pricing have flattened and in some cases we're seeing upward pressure.
Thus we continue to look at our processes.
We're definitely seeing incrementally higher costs as we experiment with innovations and completion methods primarily around slick water or gel slick water hybrid fracs with increased concentrations of ceramic proppant.
We believe that the successful these jobs could have the potential to unlock novel technical solutions to actually improve margins in this play.
Similar gains will be made in SCOOP.
We've seen significant improvement in well costs mainly due once again to more efficient geosteering and other performance-related improvements.
Average costs last year ranged from $9 million to $9.5 million for operated wells in both the oil and condensate windows respectively.
Today we're seeing those costs in the range of $8.5 million to $9 million for our 1-mile lateral in SCOOP.
We've seen an increasing opportunity to ship across unit wells over time.
We're not completely there yet but for $13 million to $14 million per well we should generate twice the production in EUR or more on average for 55% to 60% of an incremental cost.
That's a significant boost to our capital efficiency.
I hope this gives you a better sense of how we're improving efficiency and reducing costs as we continue driving toward our 2013 production growth and other operating targets.
And with that I'll pass it over to our CFO John Hart.
Thanks Rick.
Let me run briefly through several mid-year financial metrics.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter was $1.33 per diluted share beating the Street consensus by $0.08 largely on the back of higher production.
EBITDAX also increased to a record of $708 million which was up 14% from the first quarter and 5% higher than the Street consensus.
Our cash flow for the second quarter was also considerably stronger and improving.
Cash margin was 73% for the second quarter as we continue to lead our oil-concentrated E&amp;P peers.
Our hedge program is critical to our growth strategy to assure that oil price volatility which we've certainly seen plenty of that doesn't disrupt the momentum of our drilling program.
This is important in achieving our 5-year growth plan.
Our June 30 hedge position is laid out in the Form 10-Q which was filed last night.
We took a slightly larger-than-usual one-time impairment in this past quarter which relates primarily to our Niobrara exploration program which hasn't met our expectations.
Second quarter 2013 production expense was $5.86 per Boe slightly higher than 2013 guidance.
But this mainly reflects slowdowns due to adverse weather in the Bakken and an increased number of workovers.
The monthly trend improved sequentially through the quarter in part due to improved weather in June.
June production for instance the expense per Boe was below the midpoint of our annual guidance as we continue to focus on improved operating cost.
Our other guidance metrics production taxes DD&amp;A G&amp;A expense and equity compensation per Boe are within guidance ranges for the year and trending towards the low end of our ranges.
Total long-term debt was $4.4 billion at June 30.
So our net debt to EBITDAX ratio was 1.75x on a trailing 12-month basis and 1.5x if you annualize the second quarter's EBITDAX.
As our spending in excess of cash flow continues to narrow you should expect to see an even further improved net debt to EBITDAX ratio by the end of 2013.
First half non-acquisition CapEx was $1.8 billion in line with our disciplined growth strategy.
The CapEx overspend versus cash flow continues to move in a positive direction.
In fact our expectation is for our outspend in excess of cash flow to continue to trend downward throughout the remainder of 2013 and throughout 2014.
We are focused intently on capital discipline and growing production and proved reserves.
Bottom line we're on track to achieve our guidance goals for 2013.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to Harold.
Thank you John.
If I could just offer my own perspective of what we're currently involved in today for everyone very briefly from my own experience over the past 46 years we're witnessing firsthand a great evolution of our industry due to the horizontal tight oil development and multistage completions from previously bypassed reservoirs such as the Bakken Woodford the Eagle Ford and Permian Basin formations.
For companies such as Continental who have been focused long term in oil development and are well-positioned to participate in this evolution the future is extremely bright and promising.
We are very excited at Continental to play a part in this renaissance.
In closing I'll summarize our first half of 2013.
We're halfway through a very successful first year of our 5-year plan and we're on track to achieve our 2013 goals.
In the second half you should expect more the same in terms of operating and financial highlights further delineation of the Lower Three Forks and SCOOP strong production growth increased cash flow strong net income growth capital discipline and an increased proved reserves as we further prove up the reservoirs that we have in the Bakken and SCOOP.
We're getting it done.
And obviously Continental's achievements are reflected in increased share price and valuation.
The entire team is focused on maintaining Continental's industry-leading growth in our 2 premier oil plays.
To that end we're currently working on our 2014 growth plan and look forward to sharing that with you in the fall.
With that I'll hand the call back to the operator to begin our Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could give us some clarification on the Lower Three Forks exploration program and whether you had drilled all of your Lower Three Forks wells below existing Bakken and Three Forks producers? Yes.
We've got a table out there summarizing what targets we are shooting for here.
But yes this whole program has been targeted evaluating the Lower Three Forks which includes the TF2 TF3 and TF4.
We do have a -- 4 wells in there that are TF1 1 wells that we are drilling that are part of that program to -- that we are basically in the program as interference test wells.
And essentially ensuring as we -- as Rick had mentioned in here what we wanted to do at this program was first delineate the productive footprint or basically determine the productivity of these lower zones.
Because before we started this there really was no production from these lower benches.
And so we've succeeded really in part one of this which that is demonstrating that we've got a productive footprint that covers at least to this point 3 800 square miles.
And so part two of this now is to demonstrate that the reserves we're getting here in production are incremental to the play.
That's been a big question out here.
So we're 65% through drilling all of these wells and are just proceeding ahead as planned.
And the results we've got at this point are very encouraging because we're seeing consistency of results within areas with the TF1 production in the areas and really just the widespread nature of the performance that you think about it in this basin when you combine what Continental has done we've got 14 producers and then you can add to it the wells that have been completed by other operators out here.
There are a total of actually 18 Lower Three Forks.
And that would be TF2 TF3 and TF4 producers within a 3 500 square mile area.
And the odds of us getting out here and drilling those -- that few wells in that large of an area and getting these kind of results that we've incurred is I think gives us a lot of confidence in the overall extent and continuity of the play.
So Drew if I -- just to add one small point to make sure we answered your specific question.
For the wells that are being drilled in that program they are in units that already have a well in them not necessarily both TF1 and the Middle Bakken but there's another well in those units.
And they're also very close to the core control that we had.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess to clarify was really getting at in the Colter unit you have and I think that's definitely true on that eastern part of the basin there's a lot of vertical fracturing.
Just curious if this is on a similar basis the rest of the tests you've done whether they are relatively vertically stacked within 600 feet or 800 feet or so? Okay.
Actually the answer to that is not necessarily for the exploration program for the deeper bench.
That is essentially to prove commercial production over a broad area.
When we get to understanding how they're vertically stacked that's more aligned to the density projects that -- and we're doing 4 of those.
And those are shown on the map as well.
That's where we're getting the additional data to understand the actual -- what's appropriate for full field development.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay that helps.
And on the eastern side where you're seeing this extensive vertical fracturing can you give us an idea of how much acreage you think has similar vertical fracturing? Or how much acreage exposure you think you have? Drew it's way too early to have a feel for that right now.
I was trying to put it in perspective here when you've got 18 producers over a 3 500 square mile area it's very very difficult to go to that detail at this point.
And our next question will come from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just question on the Charlotte unit trying to get a sense on a few of these wells where you've got a Three Forks 1 and a Three Forks 2 slightly offset and then a Three Forks 2 and a Three Forks 3.
Can you give us the distance between those 2 well pairs? Yes.
If you look at Slide 6 I don't know if you happen to have that but I'll give you -- just to explain okay.
If you look at that you see the 2 pairs of wells that are circled there.
And on the left-hand side on the west side of the unit there you've got a TF1 and TF2 producer.
And those are 660 feet apart laterally.
And vertically they're going to be about 50-foot apart the 2 wellbores.
The same if you go to look on the east side of the unit there the 2 well circles are TF2 and a TF3 producer.
And those are 37 feet apart vertically and 660 offset laterally.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just trying to get a sense of how this differs on the spacing from what you saw at the Colter unit here.
Yes.
If you slide over to the Colter on the next slide on Slide 7 there you can see that the TF1 producer that had been there for 2 years and produced 230 000 barrels of oil equivalent was -- it's 660 away from the TF2 producer laterally and 68 feet vertically separated from the TF2 producer.
And so there is a common pair there that's very very similar to what you have over in the Charlotte as far as its distance between vertically and horizontally.
And in the Charlotte you can see we've seen no evidence of production interference.
However in the Colter we have seen evidence of production interference.
In fact it's direct evidence of production interference here.
And that direct evidence is number one we -- these wells the TF2 and the TF4 well were not capable of flowing okay.
So that indicated lower bottom hole pressure.
And the second thing was that we actually saw frac sand show up in our Middle Bakken producer.
And so that's directive.
And so evidence here is that we have some more robust fracturing in this particular area here at the Colter that doesn't exist in the Charlotte.
And where we have this fracturing we've essentially -- Mother Nature has enabled the communication of these various layers and benches.
Because historically we have over 100 pairs of wells that have been drilled out in the basin between the Middle Bakken and Three Forks 1 660 offset.
And there's no evidence of communication.
But here we've seen across the lower Bakken Shale all the way to the TF2 we've seen communication between these wells.
And the evidence itself is what it is.
I mean it's -- you can see that it's here.
So why is the question.
And again I think we're on the Nesson Anticline here.
And this is an area that's just structurally more active.
And in those areas you're going to have areas of more intense fracturing.
And those areas we're actually getting assistance from mother nature for connecting multiple layers in here.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful on the explanation.
Another quick question for you guys.
Just looking at completions and looking at your numbers I'm seeing that you guys did 138 completions in the Bakken in the first half of '13.
You guys are guiding to 245 net for the year.
So should we expect to see completions decelerate in the second half here? And then kind of the same question on the SCOOP.
I'm seeing about 17 completions in the first half of the year and you guys are guiding to 55 for the year so that kind of implies an acceleration.
Can you just walk us through sort of the dynamic there? Am I looking at this right? You are.
This is Rick Muncrief.
You are.
We are -- as you look at their pads Rick Bott mentioned earlier we have the 4 density projects.
You're going to see the completion slow down somewhat in the Bakken.
And we currently have a backlog of about 75 wells that have been drilled and have not been completed yet.
And that backlog will grow slightly throughout the second half of the year.
And so you're looking at it properly.
And that's all a function of the pad drilling with our large pads.
Down here in SCOOP you once again are looking at it correctly.
And that we currently as of today we have 10 rigs running in SCOOP.
And we'll add a couple more rigs.
And we'll be working at inventory down.
We have -- we typically will have somewhere between 6 and 10 wells waiting at any given time.
Some of that is around infrastructure buildout and just trying to time that.
So one thing that sets us up for is larger completions going into the first half of 2014 from this backlog.
That's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And I guess just last question on crude by rail.
You guys clearly are still railing quite a bit of your barrels here as you mentioned.
Obviously we've seen a big compression in the Brent/WTI spread which I guess clearly will hurt coastal pricing versus Mid-Con pricing.
Just wanted to kind of get a sense of what you guys are doing on the marketing side to maybe address that? And what your ability is to maybe limit some of the volumes by rail and send more by pipe or other means? Leo we still have some markets that have like a pretty broad fare.
They're just premium to the WTI yet.
And certainly to those we're going to keep shipments going.
And we need rail to get the volume of oil out there.
So this premium we get is certainly helping us offset transportation cost.
And also I'd just add to Harold's point there is let's also keep it in perspective that both of these prices are nice prices no matter what benchmark you're looking towards.
The netback to the well is nice in terms of translating down to the bottom line.
And our next question will come from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple if I may.
And my first question I guess is to Rick Muncrief.
Rick as you've been talking about connecting different benches on the eastern side of the play on the Colter unit does that change your view of recovery rates on the Bakken wells in not cited the play versus your 600 tight curve? I don't think it changes our global outlook on things.
We're going to be as we mentioned earlier we're going to be learning a lot over the next 12 to 24 months.
And what we're seeing and reporting thus far are some of the early indications.
And some of those indications have been extremely positive as Jack Stark mentioned earlier.
And we can't help but be excited about it.
So from our perspective I don't think it really changes our outlook on our 603 model.
Over time you may see that as you go to increased density that may come down a little bit.
You would almost expect that.
But we'll just see how that all plays out.
Once again I think we're going to learn a lot not only with -- here at Continental but across the industry in the next 12 to 24 months.
Research Division</strong> Again it may be a little early but as it relates to the Three Forks tests and the 5 other areas does it -- can you give any indication as to whether those -- how those tight curves look relative to that 603 model also? I realized that's the Middle Bakken model but...
Right.
Well it's actually the Middle Bakken and the TF1 model.
We really have the same model.
We have looked across the base on some of the early indications.
And what you see is a real nice bracketing of those curves.
In some cases we have wells that are considerably above the 603 model.
And then we have some that are quite honestly below that 603 model.
But when you put those layer those on and overlay those with a representation of the 603 from a rate time perspective it's a real nice bit.
It really is.
So at this time we're really really encouraged.
But once again we're 120 days into this.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Maybe for Rick Bott if I can squeeze in another one.
Rick we've talked about -- you talking about your wells or at least having your IP rates obviously impacted by that.
There's a lot of new infrastructure it seems coming onstream towards the turn of the year.
I'm just curious as to whether you would have a slightly -- any change in philosophy as a 2-stream maybe going to a 3-stream and opening those wells up a bit and -- I'll leave it there.
Well it all has to do with the line pressure for the gas you're putting into the line.
At the end of the day we are getting better infrastructure built out there.
I'd say the key for us is in terms of that choking back the wells that is mainly -- I mean our goal is we're not -- we're of north and south.
We're all the way across this play.
Our goal is to get good engineering science and good data to try and understand the ultimately best way to develop this field not to maximize an initial IP rate for a headline.
At the end of the day the line pressure which you can put the gas into the line is important for us.
And we make sure that we're able to sell gas first.
So we have our wells hooked up when we test them and flow them.
And that is essentially the choke-back that I was referring to in terms of making sure that we're able to capture the value of that gas not flare it and get it right into the line.
In terms of ultimately whether or not we've pretty much established a fairly standard choke size for production across the basin and that's not really changed.
So I don't see any real change to our strategy at this point in time.
And our next question will come from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> My first question is if you can provide a little more color on the acquisition and capital expenditure in the quarter for about $101 million? Some of this has obviously gone into plays that we're not ready to talk about.
So we're going to have to leave part of that just unsaid at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on that long-lateral SCOOP well what was the cost there? Appears that that cost came in at I believe $13.8 million.
And 9 500-foot lateral was actually one of our areas that is a little more on the fringy side.
And we're very pleased with the results of that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Rick in the Bakken right now on kind of a leading edge basis well cost.
I know in the past you published that Florida-Alpha pad at sub-$8 million per well.
Where are you right now on a leading edge basis on your well cost in the Bakken? We have seen some individual well costs at $7.5 million on an individual well cost basis.
Research Division</strong> And then last one for me.
Right now you've got about 70% of your rigs on pads in the Bakken.
What do you think for '14 that percentage could be? It's probably going to be in that 70% to 75% range at any given time maybe a little higher than that.
But I think 70% to 75% is a good spot.
We still have got some areas to HBP quite honestly.
Yes if I could just pick up on 2 of your points questions that you asked.
That acquisition capital that we talked about just in case you were wondering there wasn't any production associated with that.
So that's one point.
And the second point on well costs Rick might want to comment we're continuing to drive down costs all across the basin.
And we've got some real edge game-changers in Montana.
You want to...
Right.
Pearce in the $7.5 million was a North Dakota well that we've seen.
On the Montana side we've seen them at $6.4 million on a completed well cost.
And our next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> With the news of your Three Forks well working it makes me think as you go forward and think about the time when you're going to be developing across all the different benches how do you prioritize locations where you might have say 5 producing zones versus others where you might have fewer but I guess the process of just crowding a bunch of different wells onto the same section might be easier.
I mean could we see a day where essentially in one part of the basin you're doing Middle Bakken and second Three Forks and then another part of the basin you're doing first and third? It's a great question Noel and very insightful.
I think it might be a little bit too early to give you any guidance.
But I can envisage that there once we get a little bit better understanding and get through the various testing programs we have for the Three Forks the deeper bench testing and also these pilot density projects is that you could have multiple wells.
And they might even have different spacing intervals in different intervals if we see more of that vertical connection that we see in fracturing.
But I'd say as we move into full field development it'll be 3 primary drivers: maximizing the recovery and that will have to do also with the way you complete them; operating efficiencies; and of course the headline for it all will be rate of return.
Perhaps the next level will be to -- being able to make sure that we get everything hooked up from a midstream perspective.
So those are probably the 4 drivers that we'll put into our plan as we start rolling out full field development.
And we're doing a lot of work in some of these areas where we have these density pilot projects and these deeper bench testing to try to understand how we can move into that as quickly as possible.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as perspective on sort of legacy Bakken holdings you have.
If you can refresh my memory how much of the Three Forks or how many of the different Three Forks zones are in place say across Elm Coulee for instance? Noel we've -- over there you've got a bit of the Three Forks 1.
And then you do have the 2 3 and 4 present.
But as you get up towards Elm Coulee their faces change and they go on in the third and fourth in particular where you really start getting anhydritic.
So those do become less prospective but you still end up having the TF1 and TF2 as possible candidates down the road.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I wanted to turn to SCOOP for a minute.
I think you mentioned a minute ago that the long lateral you did out there was actually in sort of a fringy area.
So it sounds like it actually performed better than you might have thought going in.
Can you sort of update us on your thoughts on the footprint of the SCOOP? And where you think you pretty much have the definition established? And where do you think there's still a frontier to find out there? Sure.
If you could go to Slide 8 that shows the SCOOP fairway.
And as Rick had mentioned earlier we've really focused most of our efforts in the 40-mile stretch that's in the northwest part of this fairway.
And what we see as potential here is that we feel we can take this trend another 40 miles to the southeast.
And on this Slide 8 you can see there's green which is the oil window.
The orange is the condensate window.
And that pink color is the gas window as best we know it today.
And we continue to work at defining that and delineating it.
As we get more data it becomes more well-defined.
But that's really our vision here.
And so we are planning and are in the process of beginning to test our lease blocks down in the southeast extension of our existing proven or de-risked area.
And Noel with your permission I'll just add a point of perspective.
And we've talked about this on previous calls.
This is essentially represents our leasing.
It's following essentially the leasing pattern that we had.
We understood the play first in this area and then leased down to the south.
And so we're really essentially mainly testing these ideas and moving through an HBP program.
A program here as we talked about before is to really make sure that we follow on and hold these leases.
So to the point is we're just as excited about what we have in front of us as we are about what we've already discovered.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just the last one.
Could you comment on what you're seeing for first year declines in the SCOOP and how the economics look like they might stack up against the Bakken sort of over the long term? Yes.
We see some variability on the decline.
We've seen somewhere between anywhere from 25% up to 60% in the first year of production.
From an economic standpoint we think that the SCOOP economics are – range from the high 30s up to 80% type rate of return numbers.
And so you compare that with the Bakken.
In a lot of cases it compares quite favorably to the Bakken.
And so we're just real excited about what we're seeing down there.
Earlier when I mentioned the Singer well as being somewhat in a fringy area.
The fringy area was still then the 40% rate of return.
So in essence we think cross unit takes that from a 40- to a mid-60s kind of rate of return.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question will come from the line of Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> One question on the SCOOP.
You talked about adding a couple rigs in third quarter.
How should we think about the potential for continued acceleration into year-end? And is there a type of run rate that we should think about in the medium term? I don't think so.
I think the 12 rigs is where we need to get to deliver this year's program stay within our capital guidance.
And then as Harold mentioned in his some of his comments we'll be laying out our 2014 plans sometime this fall.
Yes.
So in terms of the exit rate I think it's -- I think as we've guided to the upper end of the guidance you might just look at where we started at the beginning of the year.
And 38% to 40% growth on that is where we'll finish the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if I could ask one on the Bakken.
And I apologize if I missed it.
But I wasn't sure if anybody has referenced this.
But are you doing -- how much work are you doing on adjusting your well completions in the Bakken on experimental-type completions? Any thoughts or takeaways there yet? And how much -- is there much of an impact on well costs would you imagine? Yes.
We're going to experiment with some slick water jobs and also some hybrid jobs.
But just the slick water jobs some of the numbers we've seen could be as much as $1 million per well higher depends on the size of the job.
It's just not the pumping cost but it's just the all-in cost.
And our team is looking at pumping a few of those and see if we see any difference in productivity.
And that's the thing about our business.
And it's all about continuing to improve your processes and your approaches.
And so we'll keep you posted as we learn more.
Yes.
And I'd link back to Harold's comments.
I mean this is still very very early days in understanding this horizontal oil renaissance and addressing these reservoirs that have never been producing well before.
So it's very early days.
And there's -- we're optimistic that there's lots of technology and lots of great ideas yet to come.
And our next question will come from the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on just interference in general.
So when we think about interference you're seeing among the various intervals what are the positives of interference and what are the negatives of interference? And then following up with that for Rick Bott I mean what have you seen and this may be repetitive what have you seen in the Lower Three Forks testing that is encouraging to you? And then what so far has been disappointing? I might just comment briefly on what the positives of interference.
In some of these -- this area of course along Nesson Anticline tremendous produceability in some of these wells.
We've seen wells 2 million barrels EUR or greater.
So the connectivity that Mother Nature can give you can be very good.
We need to understand it from an increased density perspective.
And so that's the data that we're getting in regards here.
Other areas won't have this.
All the movement perhaps that causes fracturing and -- but we need to understand it.
And that's what some of this is about.
The second part someone else? You want to address the negative? Well the negatives would be that if you go out and you have unplanned interference you probably just spent some capital that you don't have a preferred rate of return on.
And a positive would go -- is the inverse of that that you may be able to understand your reservoir optimize your capital spend over time as you develop this and deliver great program economics.
Yes.
So Joe let me then just add to both of those points then and also think in the long term and the big picture.
So there on the Nesson Anticline we've got enhanced fracturing.
Predicting is important.
What that means is as Rick and Harold both alluded to on a primary recovery we can probably get that oil with less capital fewer wells less capital.
Ultimately you may also want to look at where we go through to for enhanced recovery secondary and tertiary recovery and you may still need density of wells drilled.
If you drill those and get the recovery in primary the economics for an enhanced recovery always look better.
But at the end of the day we're looking at maximizing this recovery.
We've talked before about what the ultimate recoverable is from this play.
Continental's put out there some numbers using a recovery factor of only getting 3.5% of the oil out.
If we get that up to 5% 7% of the oil with some of these enhanced recovery ideas that are in the future yet to be tested then there's a large prize for us to capture.
So part of our efforts we're doing now is for near-term understanding in primary development but also building our understanding for the future.
Then you asked about Lower Three Forks the encouraging and disappointing? Well I'd say in terms of disappointing first we would have been really nice to be surprised if the core data ended up being anomalous and we had better reservoir than we thought that was out there.
But it actually looks like if you take it on a percentage basis the core program that the exploration guys designed really did give us a pretty good understanding of the basin.
And so quite a bit of this is coming in in terms of our model.
And I'm not really disappointed by the lower production rates in the Three Forks 4.
It looks that way now but again back to Harold's point and that vision he's got is that this is the first few years in a multi-decade understanding of how to develop unconventional oil in the horizontal oil play tight oil play.
And so I'm quite confident that we will in time figure out both in terms of efficiencies and in terms of technology to be applied ways to produce that oil.
The big takeaway and what we tried to determine in this program is is it full of oil all the way across the play or should we expect water in those intervals? And the good news is it's full of oil.
The second good news is is there are these good producible dolomites that we already know how to frac pretty well in all of those intervals.
There will be some -- there will be heterogeneity within them across areas but the change is relatively gradual.
And so we think it's going to be quite predictable.
And so we're upbeat.
We just know we've got a lot of work to do there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And does the -- do the data that you gathered and in particular the interference data does it cause you to rethink your drilling and completions of your primary wells in your acreage? Well there's a couple of things that we probably are going to look at and think about testing and it's probably really too early to lay out that out there for you because we need to let the engineers and the geoscientists do a little more thinking.
But we're always challenging our -- even our own internal conventional wisdom to make sure that we're pushing the envelope and making sure we're getting the right data to be able to answer those questions.
So I'm very excited about these density pilots.
We're doing some new things there.
We talked only about the microseismic but there's a lot of things we're doing in the completions that if they prove out will -- may cause us to go back and think about how we develop.
And that's why we talk -- the headline we use is we lump in the statement full-field development but that's what we mean is how we're going to prosecute the development of a given area and we're thinking about sort of a township development.
How do you -- what's the most efficient and effective and cost effective way to responsibly produce within that township.
And that covers a large area.
And so the guys are working on that they're coming up with a lot of ideas all the way from what's going on in the subsurface to how they operate and how they even down the road end up working these wells over.
So there's a huge effort going into understanding this and the planning that'll come out of that.
Rick you want to add anything to that? No that's fine.
Jack would you like to add? One thing I might add there quickly Joe is that in those areas where you have interference is a great area for acceleration of production.
And also not only -- it's impactful in 2 different ways.
First of course production.
The other one is the information we're getting on reserves as we go forward with this increased density.
So they're very impactful in both of those areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Just a quick one for Rick Muncrief.
I think Rick you mentioned completion cost increasing.
Were you just specifically talking about completion cost increasing because of the way you're doing things or are you also citing some pressures in kind of the service cost pressure just because of capacity or what have you? Well I think you have 2 components there.
And the first is we think in a lot of the cases some of the pricing has bottomed out and so what it causes us and our service providers to do is look at unique ways to work more closely together to drive out inefficiencies and thus we'll see lower cost from that.
The second part is where we've seen the opportunities for us to try some of these different approaches to our stimulation.
For instance I mentioned slick water fracs up in the Bakken where we would use 100% ceramic versus our traditional 60-40 where we're pumping 60% sand 40% ceramic.
You'll see some additional cost on those particular jobs and then we'll just evaluate the results of those jobs and adjust or not based on those results.
And our next question comes from the line of Hsulin Peng with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> So I have a quick follow-up to the type of experimentation you're doing with completion stimulation.
So I guess how much experimentation have you done? And have you seen evidence of better production EUR from your experimentation? And just trying to understand a little bit in terms of the cost versus incremental return from that experimentation.
Hsulin we have not done many of those yet.
We're still early on.
We're going to be pumping a few more.
Actually the team was meeting again today to finalize some additional design parameters.
And it's just something we'll just have to share with you in the future.
We really don't have a lot of data today.
Research Division</strong> Okay no that's fair.
And then second question is on the SCOOP.
So the -- on your first cross-level well the 1 915 IP rate given that you mentioned that you expect production to double I was just wondering for modeling purpose is the 1 915 a good IP rate? Or do you expect that number to increase given that it's also in the fringier area like you said? Well that is -- that was the actual production average for the first several days of that particular well.
We think that's pretty indicative of that area.
And we've also had some -- if you look at the map on Page 8 you can see where that Singer well which is in the northwest piece of our acreage in that particular area central part of our acreage.
If you go to the southeast you see a number of black dots those are producers that we have drilling completed and that's a very nice area for us and those rates we've had several 640s.
So our 1-mile laterals have had rates similar to that.
I mentioned -- you'll see that Vanarkel right above that is -- or excuse me right below that is a 2 000 Boe per day rate from 640.
So we're encouraged by what we're seeing in that area and then we're also encouraged by the fact that we were able to drill that first nearly 10 000-foot lateral from spud to TD in 53 days and went -- the job went very well.
So we're encouraged about what our cross-unit opportunities in the future look like.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question just crude by rail marketing.
Given the compression we've seen with Brent and WTI I was just actually wondering are you seeing lower rail costs to sort of make up for that compression? And just kind of can you comment on that? We sure can Hsulin.
We have not seen any reduced rail costs yet.
However we anticipate as we talked about that that -- those differentials will be volatile and they will have probably moved considerably when the additional pipelines that have already been planned and published when those come out so you'll see a lot of -- you'll probably see those things move around quite quickly when those things come onstream and the market readjust.
We -- to handle that volatility we have adopted this portfolio approach and we try to maximize what we can do on spot as often as we can so that we can take advantage of those and be as agile and nimble in the market as we possibly can.
As well as continuing our efforts working with end-user refiners helping them understand the value of the Bakken crude the consistency of the Bakken crude and our ability now as the largest producer to get them a growing supply also our ability by rail to get them a barrel that is unblended and therefore they can count on the quality.
So in the future we do anticipate that rail -- the whole package of rail costs will come down because we think rail has a long-term home in the distribution of crude within North America because of the differences and optionality that it provides you but it will have to be cost competitive with the pipelines as those come on and as they reach the major refining centers.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the pilot programs.
When did those come on and also have you all seen anything -- I don't know where you are on the drilling side but to -- have any of those wells you've seen not over-pressured reservoirs like you may have seen in Colter? To your first point the Hawkinson comes on in the fourth quarter and then the other 3 density pilot projects will come on from the beginning of the year through the end of the first quarter.
We have not seen any interference issues yet and that is because we are drilling these all at one time on each pad and then we will clean them out all at once and put them all into production at once.
So we won't have that data Brian until we actually go to production and put everything through and then get it all on.
So it'll be sort of coming in big batches of information as well as production if you will.
So unfortunately there's no information yet in terms of interference.
I will say that in all those units as we drill them we're getting good shows the type of shows that we expect and so it's the type of thing that makes you confident that you're on the right track.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so you also get a real big surge production kind of throughout the first quarter of next year? That's correct.
Yes sir.
Brian it's Rick Muncrief.
One other pad I may mention is one that is not either a lower bench test or is a interference test that's our Atlanta pad which is in a nice area as well and they're in Williams County.
It's 14-well pad.
We've got the first 11 wells drilled.
Actually the first 2 wells we drilled are now in production.
We did simultaneous operations there.
We actually got a chance of host the Secretary of Interior earlier this week and real proud of what we're doing there.
And so that's another pad that you're going to see coming on about the first of the year and we will see some nice production growth coming out of all of those.
Research Division</strong> Is that going to be the new norm 14-well pads? Well we've got pads that go from 4-well pads all the way up to a couple designed to have a 2 on the front of them.
We're still trying to finalize those so pretty exciting.
And our next question will come from the line of Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
So the well costs in the Bakken are coming down a little more than expected faster than expected.
In the past you talked about using some of that savings to accelerate in the SCOOP but we're not seeing any changes to the SCOOP completions per the press releases from Q1 to Q2.
Do you think there's some downside potential to the CapEx guidance for the year or an uptick to the SCOOP completions number? Or is it more that you're going to be drilling wells in the SCOOP but not completing? Well we've been for sure making sure that we're right on target with our budget and that's working out very well.
There is some adjustment among the program.
Our savings in the Bakken has allowed us to do some more longer laterals [indiscernible] in the SCOOP and drill another well or 2 in SCOOP and we're seeing production ramp up accordingly in the SCOOP area.
So anyway there is some adjustments in the program and that's why our production guidance has moved up.
Just one point too Marshall.
I think we gave you all those net well additions last quarter when we talked about the major savings we achieved in the Bakken to get more net wells and we're going to ramp up faster in SCOOP.
So that news is kind of already out there.
We told you about that last quarter and so… Well – okay.
In the Nesson Anticline area about how -- what percentage of your Bakken acreage is in that area where we would expect to see the more pressured rock? We have pressured rock across of much of the basin.
What we're seeing on this anticline of course is more natural fracturing due to the structure.
So Jack you want to answer that the numbers? Yes Marshall this is a Jack.
If you go to say like Slide 6 there you can see the Nesson Anticline this is a structure map and it shows the Nesson Anticline along that arrow and that is the area of more intense structuring and you can see where our acreage lies along that.
So right now you can look at it and it's a small percentage of our total acreage when you look at what we have to the north and into the west of there.
But what I want to caution about is that in here when we look at these like the Colter we have an area here where we have fracturing but take into consideration the well to the west that was drilled here that Three Forks 3 producer that was completed in the Colter unit and it is producing from virgin reservoir pressured rock.
And so these areas of fracturing might be very localized and I expect that they are and therefore you will have some of these areas that we have may be linear in nature and could run for several miles but they may only be 0.5 mile wide.
And so you're fortunate when you get into these but the question we have right now is just how pervasive are they.
And so we're acquiring 150 square miles of 3D data as we speak right now across our Hawkinson and Colter area and hopefully that will help us be able to better define these type of fractured plays.
But if you -- I just mentioned there's a well out here that kind of depicts -- is kind of the poster child for fractured producers out here it's the U.S.A.
2D-3 that Petro-Hunt drilled very early in the play and that well has produced 1.4 million barrels and is still doing I think 200 to 300 barrels a day and that well was never fracture stimulated it's producing from a natural fracture zone.
However there's a bunch of wells drilled around there that had never seen any production like that.
So these fracture trends can be very localized and very sweet when you're in them but -- so we've got a lot to learn.
We've only got 18 producing wells out here as I said before in these lower benches and so we've got a long ways to go but we're proceeding ahead.
And our next question will come from the line of Paul Grigel with Macquarie.
On the down spacing front as you guys look to the back half of the year and into the first quarter of 2014 what do you need to see to confirm the success or the challenges in terms of microseismic and production history? And what level of EUR decrease would be acceptable for the program? There's a lot of questions in there we may miss some of them but let's try.
Well success of course is going to be a nice big production bump that's the near-term success.
I think the key for us then is to look at that over probably 0.5 year and just look between the various wells and see if there's any differences and then try to tie that back to the way we understand the fracture system and the completion technology.
Now the microseismic and 3D seismic isn't going to play into that because that's going to help us then.
As I said with this really interesting way we've designed the microseismic we're now able to triangulate and watch these fractures grow and look at the length as well as the direction.
And then you've got to model that over time as the pressure comes down as you produce these.
So there's going to be a lot of information here for us to pull together to determine how best -- and this is all really trying to determine how best we can go out and plan kind of full-field development in the areas I talked about before that have the best rate of return in maximizing our operating efficiencies.
So we're quite bullish on that but we just got to wait for those results.
I think Harold had something to add.
I might add something.
You mentioned EURs and what was acceptable to us.
You have to understand within those units that number one you're drilling on acreage already paid for then by the first well; number two you've got facilities already in place that's area by the first well.
So obviously you could sense some lower EURs.
We don't expect that in these lower benches.
Very early result shows similar type of production in those and this is -- the natural thrust of producing these lower benches we obviously had a lot of production in Three Forks 1 and a lot of history with it now since we first drilled our first well there and started everybody on this course.
The second and third benches I think we'll get just as efficient in those completions as we have in the first one.
So we expect I wouldn't say decreasing results and decreasing EURs going to occur here.
Okay.
And then on the -- just a quick follow-up on the Three Forks 4 test.
Only doing a couple in this program would it be fair to assume that in 2014 there'd be additional either 3 or 4th bench tests occurring as well? This is Jack.
Yes there sure is.
We will obviously monitor results but we're also continuing to put together our stratigraphic model across the basin here and mapping out these various benches and where we feel it is warranted we will probably have a few more tests to test the viability of the 4th bench.
And our next question comes from the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The question I had was as you think about the design of the microseismic could you elaborate just on I guess the number of locations that you're putting all the different monitor wells or monitoring devices so we get a sense of how complex that grid is going to be on all these different pads? Well we're probably going to talk more about that next quarter and the quarter after after we have some results but Jack can you answer that in a general sense? Yes.
I think you might be asking how often or how regularly we're going to be using this because you're talking about -- but we've got other plans in mind but I can speak specifically right now to the Hawkinson if you'd like to do that? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes please? Sure.
In the Hawkinson we went in here and we had -- we're drilling 11 wells and 4 of those wells were actually microseismic monitoring horizontal wellbores that ultimately we will be completing as producers.
And we had one in the Middle Bakken one in TF2 and 2 of them in the TF3.
And the idea here was that -- and we've done this and are doing this right now we would monitor the fracture stimulation of a well from 3 vantage points.
We had 3 wellbores that were being microseismically -- that were 3 microseismic monitoring wellbores active at one time.
And by doing so we end with just an exceptional database that allows us to really triangulate and properly place the fractures that are propagated from these fracture stimulation treatments.
And so we've done that and I mean this is a -- I mean as we mentioned before this is probably the largest microseismic project that's going on worldwide.
And I mean we've had folks all over the world involved with trying to design and get this in place.
And so we're setting a lot of records as far as what's being done here mechanically but bottom line is that we could have upwards of 300 stimulations monitored in this basically 1280 unit.
And so we're going to get a lot of data here and that is in turn going to allow us to -- as Rick has said what we're trying to do here is we're really trying to determine what is the optimum well pattern what's the optimum well density and what's the optimal way to develop the basically the container of oil that's here.
When you think about it we initially thought the oil container was Middle Bakken and Three Forks 1 only.
Now we recognize it's Three Forks 2 3 and 4 and so the container is bigger and we're trying to find the most efficient way to get the maximum amount of oil out of these units.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then as you think about getting these wells and once they all start producing have you thought about 4D as a possibility or could you extend the life on those microseismic to kind of accomplish the same sort of thing? These microseismic wellbores are being converted to producers and so we won't be doing any more monitoring right here but that's down the road maybe.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I guess how much of the potential I guess new information from all these testing is factored in or it's to the risk numbers that you all talked about in your Analyst Meeting last year? Not sure we understood your question Andrew.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well you all had given a total well count for the Bakken and Three Forks locations I guess how conservative I guess were the risking factors used on those well counts I guess last year? And -- or should we just wait until closer to year-end and start of next year to kind of get a refresh on what some of those numbers could look like? Yes we're working at refreshing it as we speak here.
I've got some additional information here from wells that have been drilled and so we continually are looking at that.
So as far as risking we essentially -- the risking that was done was just what percentage of the acreage we thought was respective at the time.
Our next question will come from the line of Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick question for me.
In terms of the Three Forks wells you've drilled I was hoping to just get a little bit of color on how you think about the productivity and the EURs versus the Middle Bakken and kind of on average in the play? Yes.
Matt this is a Rick Muncrief.
What we mentioned earlier is we've had a nice range.
If you look at our 603 model we've actually overlaid the actual performance of our lower benches from the -- primarily the TF2s and TF3s thus far.
And what we've seen is really a nice bit it does bracket.
We've got wells that are well above that 603 model and we've got some that are below it.
But when you put it in a graphical representation it gives you a fairly high level of confidence that on average that 603 is a pretty good number.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess just asking it a different way.
If I just completely separated the Three Forks versus the Middle Bakken could you just give us a little bit of color on how you think about the relative economics of those 2 plays and maybe where they stack up in terms of the productivity on a Three Forks well on average versus the productivity of a Middle Bakken well on average? Is there a big difference or do you guys see that pretty similar? Just trying to get a picture on that.
Yes there's really no difference.
I mean we've got areas where clearly the Middle Bakken are stronger than nearby Three Forks and we've got -- the inverse is also true.
We've got some much stronger Three Forks wells than the Middle Bakken.
So we really don't see an aggregate of significant difference.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly in terms of the SCOOP play as you guys delineate this acreage position was hoping to get a little bit of a better picture on maybe how you think about kind of the acceleration case here.
And with that acreage delineation you have at the moment how do you think about kind of the optimal rig count? Or is it a little too early to talk about that? I think we're going to -- we'll lay some of our plans out later in the fall when we talk about our 2014 budget.
And our top priority #1 in SCOOP is we'll put together a very large acreage position.
And similar to what we had to do a few years ago in the Bakken is our top priority will be to HBP that acreage.
And our final question will come from the line of Ryan Oatman with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to talk a little bit more about these SCOOP wells the initial rates were up pretty good quarter-over-quarter.
Normalizing kind of excluding the extended reach lateral can you talk about what you're doing there then what you're seeing from a 30- 60- 90-day rates on these wells? I understand some others in the play are seeing these wells pretty flat over initial production periods? Yes Ryan this is Rick Muncrief.
I do agree with some of the early assessments.
We do have variability but by and large we're very pleased with the 30- 60- 90- and 120-day rates on these wells.
We've had some actually where the 90-day rate is in essence flat to the 30-day rate.
And so you're not seeing tremendous amount of decline.
There's some reasons for that.
Sometimes that may be infrastructure related sometimes it's just the fact that you've got -- these are great wells.
And so but we're real pleased with what we're seeing thus far and look forward to sharing more in the future.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes our question-and-answer portion for today's call.
I would now like to turn it over to Mr.
Kilgallon.
Thank you Lacey and thank you all for joining the call this morning.
We did run a bit long today but we didn't see others that had calls behind us so we appreciate you staying with us and we appreciate all the great questions.
If you have additional follow up please reach out to Warren and I.
Thank you for this morning and this concludes our call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation you may all disconnect.
Good day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
And I would now like to hand the conference over to Mr.
John Kilgallon.
Please proceed sir.
Good morning and thank you.
Welcome to the Continental Resources Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today with prepared remarks is Harold Hamm Founder Chairman and Chief Operating Officer; Rick Bott President Chief Operating Officer; John Hart Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also on the call today during the Q&amp;A session will be other members of the management team which includes Jeff Hume Vice Chairman of Strategic Growth Initiatives; Jack Stark Senior Vice President of Exploration Rick Muncrief Senior Vice President of Operations; Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land and Warren Henry Vice President of Investor Relations.
In conjunction with earnings in the call this morning we have posted a third quarter earnings supplement presentation that's available on our website in the upper left-hand corner.
Please look at that because we might make reference to that during the call.
The slides are also available in the web portal if you're listening via the webcast.
Today's call will include forward-looking statements and address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ from those contained in these forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Also in today's call we will refer to EBITDAX adjusted net income per diluted share and cash margin.
For a reconciliation of EBITDAX to GAAP net income and operating cash flows and a reconciliation of adjusted net income per diluted share to the GAAP net income per diluted share and a description of our calculation of cash margin please refer to the third quarter press release or the summary presentation that's found in our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Harold.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for today's earnings call.
The Continental team performed an exceptional level in the third quarter of 2013.
I'd like to take this opportunity to thank our entire team here at Continental.
We generated strong production and operating performance resulting in a record cash flow for the quarter.
The third quarter 2013 marks the 13th consecutive quarter in which Continental has increased production sequentially.
As expected production is accelerating in the fourth quarter.
Our current production rate is approximately 150 000 Boe per day putting us at the high end of our guidance for the year.
We're getting better performance for CapEx invested and because of that we're on track to achieve our production earnings growth goals for 2013.
The other highlight of last night's earnings release of course was the outstanding success of the Hawkinson density drilling pilot highlighted on Slide 4.
Maximum one day production from the unit was a total of 14 850 Boe per day.
Included in this was 13 400 Boe per day from 11 new density wells producing from the Middle Bakken and the first second and third benches as a Three Forks zones.
This number is their combined IPs.
This new Middle Bakken and TF1 well IP-ed at 14 080 Boe per day and the 7 lower bench wells IP-ed at 1 070 Boe per day.
Finally in the 3 legacy wells we had max one day production of 1 450 Boe per day.
These wells 2 in the Middle Bakken and 1 in the first benches of Three Forks have produced 1.3 million Boe since the earliest we've brought on in 2010.
Let me focus on what this milestone means.
Continental is defining what full development mode will look like in a Bakken.
The roadmap at multiple wells for spacing unit in multiple zones included in the Middle Bakken and in most cases 2 to 3 benches of the Three Forks will add to fourth bench in some areas.
Our success with the Hawkinson unit points to 2 key points about the play overall.
The deeper benches will be important oil producers and we'll recover more oil per spacing unit than anyone in basin just few years ago.
Based on everything we've learned this year we're accelerating portfolio development.
One of the first areas for this will be Continental Antelope area located between the Parshall and Sanish areas and the Nesson Anticline which we've highlighted on Slide 5.
Antelope is one of the most productive areas to be significantly drilled in the Bakken and the Continental team had divides an Ears Back plan to develop it.
For you who didn't grow up on a farm Mack idea the horse running Ears Back is just going all out so you need to hang on pretty tight.
We intend to increase to 4 operating rigs in Antelope next year.
All the drilling will be on large multiple well pads with up to 30 wells on a pad.
We will target the Middle Bakken in the first second and third benches of the Three Forks.
This will be the first area in the Bakken with Full field development including deeper benches and using these mega-pads.
It's key to understand that Continental already has extensive success in Antelope with 40 gross wells already completed.
Like our Angus wells these are extremely good wells.
Development of Continental's interest in Antelope area is expected to account for approximately 50 000 barrels of oil per day growth in production in the future.
However we also have a great deal of running room.
With the total inventory of almost 350 gross wells to be drilled over the next 4 to 5 years we plan to spend 51 wells in 2014.
These are already in our CapEx budget.
Given the size of these projects the resulting production ramp will be significant starting in 2015.
From that point onward Antelope's impact should be large.
This is a huge impact project in an underdeveloped area where we have been planning with our midstream vendors to build out sufficient infrastructure to handle this production prior to our work here.
We're almost there and we'll be by the time we'll begin.
Continental's Bakken leadership has been a constant throughout the tenure basin history.
And the recently completed Hawkinson density project and the planned Antelope full-field development will also be major milestones that join long list of Continental firsts.
Those include one completing the first economic well in North Dakota Bakken that's both horizontally drilled and multistate frac that Robert well [ph] in March 2004.
We made the early development of the Middle Bakken zone and followed by improving the productive potential of the upper Three Forks in 2008.
In the past year we pioneered the development of the Lower Three Forks benches.
Along with the exploration we've been a consistent leader in well cost reduction.
We're now currently completing Bakken wells North Dakota for $8 million.
These accomplishments are just a further realization of our vision at the Bakken.
Let me say in summary what I've said many times there's only one Bakken.
It's the most important oil discovery in the past 50 years as shown on Slide 6.
It's massive one of the largest pure oil resource plays in the world and we've de-risked 3 800 square miles for multiple benches.
It's onshore American it's 85% oil and Bakken is one of the most consistent high quality crudes anywhere in the world.
And it's just getting started.
Bakken will soon surpass 1 million Boe per day of production and I expect it to double again within 10 years.
Given it's scope and importance to you U.S.
Energy Security I can't be more proud that Continental is Bakken's #1 leaseholder #1 driller and #1 producer within it.
With that I'll ask Rick Bott now to talk about Continental's other third quarter achievements and our excitement about this group play in Oklahoma.
Another operator this week announced a new stack play which includes about 2/3 of our Northwest [ph] leasehold.
So I'll turn it over to Rick.
Thanks Harold.
As you said I'll give a little more color in terms of Continental team's excellent results this past quarter.
First production increased 5% sequentially in the quarter to approximately 142 000 Boe per day a 38% increase year-over-year.
We achieved this despite the lag in production due to the transition to larger multi-well projects in some of these down spacing pilot.
And as you noted production growth has accelerated in the fourth quarter currently 150 000 barrels of oil per day.
Both operations and marketing are going extremely well I'll give you a little more explanation.
We expect production growth momentum to continue into 2014 and are very much on target or ahead of plan to achieve our 5-year goal.
In terms of sales our oil and gas marketing team continues to do an excellent job accessing high-value markets for our premium Bakken crude oil and liquids rich natural gas.
Our third quarter oil differential was $7.80 per barrel a considerable accomplishment given the volatility of commodity prices and the volatility of the WTI Brent spread.
In the same manner our gas marketing delivered a pricing premium of $1.65 per MCF over Henry Hub $0.15 above their top range of annual guidance.
The marketing team has efficiently managed pipe and rail transportation opportunities to markets on the East West and Gulf Coast as well as the Mid-Continent fulfilling our objective of reaching premium markets for the oil and gas we produce.
In terms of capital expenditures we performed at a very high level while maintaining spending discipline in line with our $3.6 billion non-acquisition CapEx budget for the year.
Through the first 3 quarters of 2013 we've invested non-acquisition CapEx of about $2.7 billion.
Strong production and improved efficiencies have generated $2.1 billion in EBITDAX through the first 9 months.
One of our top priorities is to grow cash flow more rapidly than capital expenditures and that's exactly what the team is accomplishing.
This preserves the strength and flexibility of our balance sheet while we deliver industry-leading production and proved reserve growth.
Harold highlighted the Hawkinson density project.
We have 3 more density projects in various stages of completion.
These include the Rollefstad and Tangsrud which are testing well space 1 320 feet apart within zone similar to the Hawkinson.
The other density pilot under way is the Wahpeton which will test 660-foot spacing between wells in the zone.
We expect to report the results in these in early 2014.
From what we've learned we're planning 3 more density pilot projects in 2014 in the Hartman Lawrence and Mack spacing units to test tighter spacing and further validate our Full field development concept including these deeper benches.
As you know we're not headed down this road alone.
We're pleased to see other operators prosecute their own tighter density drilling pilot projects.
The news in the Bakken as Harold said just keeps getting better.
Apart from the density test we have a growing list of exploration accomplishments since the beginning of the third quarter.
We completed 7 more productivity and interference test in the Lower Three Forks exploration program.
The 5 lower bench test had initial production in line with legacy wells in the same area and average for those 5 are 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day in their 1 day test.
These wells tend to have flatter more gradual decline rates so they're solid economic wells.
Adding in the 7 lower bench test in the Hawkinson the average IPs for all the Lower Three Forks wells in the quarter was 835 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Another story another good new story's on the Montana side of the Bakken where we continue to demonstrate that great plays just keep getting better.
We've gone back into Elm Coulee to drill section line wells and infill wells between pre-existing legacy wells further expanding the productivity to the field.
Along with incremental production from new wells we're seeing significant uplift in the production by surrounding wells.
The new well completions are stimulating production uplift and legacy wells on either side.
The results were apparent in our strong Montana production growth 17% sequentially in the third quarter after 18% sequentially growth in the second quarter.
The state production in Montana is at all-time high and we have doubled production in Montana over the last year.
Combining what we're learning on our density pilots in real time with our latest completion results in older areas like Elm Coulee and Montana we're seeing some exciting results.
Future will not be about single well IPs that will become the conventional thinking of yesterday.
The unconventional thinking will be about production uplift using many different techniques for the entire unit.
Now let me ship southwards to our Oklahoma SCOOP play where we continued to delineate the play East and South expanding the de-risk footprint as you can see on Slide 8.
Notable third quarter wells include 2 condensate farewell wells the Charles 1-36H which flow 1 361 barrels of oil equivalent per day in its 1 day test and the Sympson 1-6H which flowed 1 257 Boe per day.
We also completed our second cross unit well the Hansell 1-3-34XH which produce 603 barrels of oil equivalent per day in its 1 day test 84% of which was crude oil.
Currently 6 of our 12 operated rigs in the SCOOP are drilling cross unit wells with 9 500-foot lateral.
We completed a notable SCOOP discovery well in third quarter the Zelda 1-36H which we drilled in Stephens County.
The Zelda is at the boundary of the condensate oil fairway.
It came in at 847 barrels of oil per day with 38% oil.
And the pressure in decline rates looks very promising.
This is a great result in a new area of the play.
Now let's touch on just a few final accomplishments.
We continue to gain efficiencies and reduced completed well cost in both the Bakken and the SCOOP.
We have achieved even our revised year end 2013 goal of an average of $8 million for completed well in North Dakota 2 months early.
Referring back to Slide 7 our year end 2014 goal is now set at $7.5 million per well.
Average completed well cost in SCOOP is $9 million for short laterals and $12.5 million to $13 million for cross-unit wells but we are early in the process of bringing SCOOP well cost down compared with the Bakken.
We expect significant improvement next year and beyond.
So in summary our team performed an exceptional level in the third quarter of 2013 with solid production growth spending discipline and excellent cash flow generation.
We're solidly on track to hit the high end of our production guidance for the year.
We're also well placed to deliver an equally strong performance next year and on track to deliver on our 5-year plan.
Underpinning these results is our differentiated subsurface view a combination of our cost effective application of the technology with our operational excellence as well as our growing marketing scale to help us relentlessly pursue the unlocking of shareholder value in these oily resources plays.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
Thank you Rick.
Let's take a brief moment to look at several of our financial measures.
Adjusted net income for the third quarter was $1.61 per diluted share beating the Street consensus by about 10%.
Our GAAP net income as reported was $0.91 per share compared with $0.24 per share last year.
This represents a 279% increase.
EBITDAX increased to a record of $798 million which was up 13% from the second quarter 62% higher than the year ago third quarter and considerably higher than Street consensus.
This was driven by strong production strong commodity prices and favorable cost.
Our cash margin was 76% or $59.54 per Boe for the third quarter as we continue to lead our oil concentrated E&amp;P peers.
Our exceptional margins enable us to very efficiently utilize capital and sustain improvement in our debt metrics.
Third quarter production expense was $5.17 per Boe compared with an average of $5.79 per Boe for the first half of the year.
We expect fourth quarter production expense per Boe to be more in line with our annual guidance especially given the challenges of winter weather.
G&amp;A expense was $1.81 per Boe for the third quarter another area of improvement.
This compared with $2.11 per Boe for the first half of the year and again it's below the bottom favorable in of the range of our annual guidance.
Total long-term debt was $4.4 billion at September 30 with strong third quarter growth in cash flow.
Our net-debt-to-EBITDAX ratio was 1.6x on a trailing 12-month basis and 1.4x if you annualize the third quarter.
As our spending in excess of cash flow continues to narrow you should expect to see a further improved net debt to EBITDAX ratio.
We expect year end debt metrics to be relatively consistent with the third quarter.
Non-acquisition CapEx was $2.7 billion for the first 9 months of the year.
This is in line with our annual CapEx budget showing the continued focus on capital discipline as we continue to grow production improved reserves.
Looking forward we have supported our 2014 CapEx and production plans with an active hedging program.
Currently we have hedged approximately 60% of our forecasted oil production and 40% of our forecasted natural gas production.
These hedges are at attractive prices supporting our growth plans and financial discipline.
We are on track to achieve our guidance goals for 2013 and look forward to moving into 2014.
With that we will now gladly address any questions that you may have and we're turning it back over to the operator for those questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Hawkinson pilot here.
Just wanted to get your sense if you think you guys are seeing production communication between the different wells you've got there amongst the difference zones? Yes good morning Leo.
This is a Rick Muncrief.
Thanks for joining us.
What we're really excited about is the results on the Hawkinson project.
#1 the productivity is really something we're very happy with.
We've been very proud of the team's execution.
As you know that we have brought this thing in probably 30 days ahead of schedule and we're really happy to see -- what we think is the proving of successful commerciality of the lower bench testing.
So our next steps we're going to truly fully integrate our extensive microseismic project that we had with our frac modeling do some additional post type testing and in tie that in with our actual production numbers.
And we'll be doing that over the next several months and so at the end of the day we're extremely encouraged about what we see.
Specifically on your question we see as we normally see with density test you see some pressure impact from one well to the other that's nothing that's anything that we're concerned about.
So what we'll see over time is what that truly means.
We've got quite a bit of data across the basin that suggest that even though you see pressure surges if you will during stimulation that once these wells go in production over the long haul you'll see that diminish.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
And I guess just jumping over to SCOOP obviously you guys kind of highlighted well cost talked about some potential improvements as we get into next year can you guys kind of maybe put any type of magnitude in terms of what kind of well cost reductions you expect there you have a 10% number over the next 12 months is it 15%? Can you kind of help us out with that a little bit here? Yes.
Once again Leo I think that the 10% number is probably not totally out of the question especially in the fact that we're going to be having increasing cross unit wells.
Currently as Rick mentioned 50% of our 12 rigs we have running so 6 cross units wells are being drilled currently.
And we have 40% to 45% of our program I believe for next year is cross-unit.
So I think what you're going to find is not only the absolute cost but certainly on $1.00 per reservoir foot you're going to see that really come down and we're very encouraged with -- not only the cost side of the equation but also what we're getting from results.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's really helpful.
I guess you guys bought new acreage in the SCOOP as well looks like your acreage total went up.
I mean where do you think that number can go over time? Is your still acreage available here? Well I think SCOOP's it's one of those plays.
It's like the Bakken.
You look at -- we're continuing with new leasing over the Bakken.
So every time we have an area where we get more comfortable with.
We sort of have a ongoing policy of building acreage in those plays.
So we're happy that we've got a pretty good leasehold now it's going to be material to the company it covers all of the key areas and it's just a question of ongoing additions where we think we see potential.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess a question for you on Antelope.
It's great news we appreciate that the quality of the acreage is great and it's great news that you're going to be probably the first Bakken operator to go to Full field development in the region.
The question is is there a potential that Antelope eventually moves tighter than the 1 300-foot basin that you assume in base plan are you confident that at this point that that's a proper spacing for the region? Ryan that's a great question.
Where we stand at this point in time is this is a very good area in the field it's got a lot of enhanced geological benefits natural fracturing and other things like that.
Where we are right now is that we think as we get this program kicked off that I think the headline here is that it is a very prolific area based on geologic factors and we also see the potential in deeper benches.
So this development would be the first Full field development that includes these deeper benches.
And so I think that's the real headline here.
The spacing that we're using is the 1 320 spacing that we're currently planning.
We think that's a good place to start in an area that it's this prolific.
Having said that as we get into that program we are pretty nimble and we may adjust that if we see different results but it's kind of our current plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess as you get data back and maybe more than 660-foot density test you're doing you do have a possibility of tightening that up over time? Yes sir most definitely.
We'll let data drive that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in SCOOP on the cross unit wells you're talking about you've given us some I guess some clarity in terms of what part of the program that might be next year.
I mean what are your expectations right now in terms of the capital efficiency gain that you're seeing from the long lateral in terms of the productivity improvement that you see per incremental CapEx spent? Well we think it's very capital-efficient to go with the 2-model laterals that's why we're doing that.
So what we're seeing is if you look at well cost as we've stated you go from $9 million to maybe even $13 million on the high end so you're adding up $4 million for that extra miles it's only about a 50% increase in your cost to get double and actually a little bit more than double the reservoir benefit when you start thinking about your hard lines that sort of thing.
So we're real pleased.
We only have 2 of the long laterals that we've operated that -- or the 9 000-foot or 9 500-foot laterals and we're extremely pleased with the results thus far.
One is in the gas condensate area and one is in the oil window.
So Ryan if I can add a little bit of additional point there.
Just to keep it in perspective.
Remember as we've guided before next year will also be a very important year for us in HBP acreage.
So we will still have rigs out there focusing on HBP acreage.
And to do that most efficiently sometime is the one mile lateral program.
So we have that in balance but ultimately as Rick talked about we're moving towards the type of development that can benefit from cross units.
Your next question comes from the line of Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> You guys talked about moving into Full development in your Antelope area.
Do you have an idea or sense of when you think you'll move into development mode for the entire play? Is that on the horizon at this point? Well great question.
We will move in full development in the entire play but there's probably not enough rigs in the world to be able to handle that so we'll probably do that in a staged approach.
And we'll be focusing on areas where we've got a good data set where we think the uplift is going to have significant bank for the buck and where we have a material acreage position.
So those are probably the end of the infrastructure so those are probably the 4 criteria to help us guide into Full field development.
It'll also give you a hand of where that's going to be.
It's going in these areas where we density pilots and these deeper bench testing.
And so we know that we can maximize recovery from the spacing unit and continue to drive down costs.
So that's kind of the thought process as it goes behind deciding on where we're going to go next in terms of Full field development of Bakken.
As you know from Continental's inventory we've got several decades out here of inventory so like you we're excited about starting to progress this into Full field development and the Antelope is one of the areas that Harold talked about where we want to just have the team full there is back.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of completions can you talk about what kind of experimentation you expect on your completions -- your plan test in 2014? Yes it's good question.
One of the things we've done is we've locked in on a completion design has worked really well for us and that design has really evolved if you will over the last 4 5 years.
And it's -- because of that we've been able to get extremely efficient and we've been able to drive the well cost down and the results.
That being said if you look at our standard design today we have perked [ph] in plug we have packer type -- swell packer type completions 30 stage jobs.
So things we've done recently and really over the last year we've done some slick water jobs and we've seen some variable results thus far.
We've got a few jobs where we've gone in and if you think about the Hawkinson we actually cemented 4 of our minors there.
So we'll be ascertaining do we see any difference in productivity with the submitted liner versus our traditional approach.
But to answer your question spot on that is if you look at 2014 we're going to carve out about 20% of our planned well count to try some different approaches.
One of the things you have to be careful about is changing too many variables and so we've got a very measured approach that we're going to take and we currently have about 50 wells in inventory of different things we're going to try and that's going to range from more slick water jobs it's going to range from cemented liners all the way up to some very significant increases in our project size.
Research Division</strong> So is the idea there to perform side-by-side tests or directly off setting tests so you can really measure the difference? Absolutely absolutely.
I think one another key point please don't lose that point is to change one variable at the time.
So as you can see where is the uplift coming from and build the database across -- again remember we're all the way across the play of what's going to be impactful across the play as well as an area specific type cocktail if you will.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
And what is the incremental cost for those cemented liners or if you're going to go to say 40 stage versus 30? Well there's several additional costs.
Cementing liner is where we do currently to go in and clean out make sure top of your PVR is clean and get out in your lateral.
We we've been seeing a $200 000 to $300 000 incremental costs.
As you know some of the slick water jobs you maybe adding $1 million $1.5 million per well cost.
And then depending on what the increased profit just how large you go that can go up pretty dramatically.
One of the good things about the Continental in our acreage position is we get a chance to look at a lot of not only what we operate but in our non-operated activities as well.
And we typically average about 100 wells per quarter or about 400 gross wells per year that we get a chance to see what others are doing.
And so we can truly -- we really benefit from that.
We can see not only what the actual results are but also what the actual cost is as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Noel Parks with Lindenberg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> Have a couple of questions.
One of them was I was curious with oil prices.
Since last quarter we dipped back below 100 for now.
I was wondering if that have any impact as far as maybe you're persuading folks to lease that maybe have been holding out and making it harder to [indiscernible] the position? I don't -- we are not seeing that.
We're progressing very steadily on leasing within our key areas here so we're not seeing a whole lot particularly.
I think it's almost the same.
Research Division</strong> And sort of related question.
Just looking at this persistent backwardation of the future curve.
And you look out a couple of years towards 2015 to '16 and it looks like maybe it's possible to hedge with not a lot of liquidity of course in low-80s per $1.
All the supply coming on different plays in the country how much do you think you need the downside protection as you look out a few years? Well the curve has been backwardated now for -- when you look at it for the last 6 7 years out there pretty tough a couple of years out.
And so we've not been aggressive at hedging out there.
We had with a bit of -- at least of all the upside of -- at $110 per barrel this last year or so.
So we haven't been real aggressive in doing that.
The other -- there are supplies coming on.
But we're also seeing in the world demand is still up increasing 1% 2%.
So we think that as the economies improve that that number could go up as well.
So other countries and other production didn't gain a whole lot.
We're not seeing the shale revolution or this Renaissance occur in a lot of other countries.
America is seeing it but not a lot of other places.
So it's a fungible commodity and we believe we're in pretty good shape for the future.
Noel with also -- on your price that you referenced that's really closer to 5 years out on a WTI basis.
If you're looking a couple of years out you're closer to 90 in WTI in Brent where we're selling a large percentage of our production based on the Brent prices in the closer to 100 range so we've got a lot of strength there.
And I agree with everything Harold added on the way the markets are working.
Research Division</strong> Great.
and then just one other quick one I wanted to ask.
The Hawkinson pad if I heard right it sounds like it came on on about 30 days sooner than was originally scheduled.
That was interesting to hear.
How did you achieve that? ? A lot of that was just on our cycle times.
The drilling -- our drilling organization did a phenomenal job and as did been our completions operations our facilities design group.
Just the whole project has really clicked.
And as I said in my remarks earlier I couldn't be prouder of the team of what they accomplished.
I'll brag on one more part there now since you asked and opened the doors.
It's also about the really tight integrated work between the production guys and our marketing guys to make sure the infrastructure was there and to make sure we weren't flaring to make sure that this gas was going right in the line and that we were able to bring that oil on stream as efficiently possible and maximize the value of every molecule that came out of there.
Your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> One question I had is differentials right now at Clearbrook has widened out quite a bit relative to WTI.
And I know you've already given your guidance for '14 of about $8 to $11 discount to WTI for the '14 guidance.
But what do you see going on right now that's kind of contributed to that widening of that discount? And how do you see that may be coming down so that we can get within that guidance range for '14? Pearce this is Jeff Hume.
What we're seeing is the Syncrude units in Canada are back online so we have a large supply of oil pressuring from Canada.
We've also seen some refineries going through a turnaround.
A couple of them were early in that area one at Chicago and one at Minneapolis that went into early turnaround.
Do to some -- I think they had some fires or some problems there.
So for safety they went ahead with that.
So you had the combination of Syncrude climbing very rapidly and refineries going down.
So that phenomenon has pressured Clearbrook.
We're putting virtually no oil into Clearbrook because we have opportunities to put it in other places.
And while we're talking about that one thing we need to look at is we're really improving getting our oil from the field to the -- either the pipeline or the railhead.
And the rail transit time to and from the market is improving because of increased infrastructure at the refinery end.
We've got very good infrastructure in the field.
That's been there for some time now.
But on the refinery -- and we're seeing turnarounds now where we're getting an easy 2 trips a month to the East Coast and increasing that.
So that's improving greatly and we still have a lot of foreign oil on the East Coast that we can displace.
So we see a good future for us there on growing that market and moving and working with a lot of refinery partners to fill that need.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up taking up on some of Rick Muncrief's comments earlier on some of the new frac techniques.
How do you handle internally the tension between focusing on full-field development and moving the manufacturing mode and cost reduction while on the other side giving consideration for this newer techniques that might result in much higher cost at the well? Great question Pearce.
We do debate that internally.
But I think that we just -- when you look at the size of the prize here and we're still in the second inning we think we have it right.
However we're also open-minded enough to know that there might be a better way.
And if you really think about continuously improving your processes you need to do that.
And we are -- I can tell you we have those debates.
But we are absolutely aligned internally to try to find a better way.
And we give credit where it's due and that's on the cost control.
And we know that it is from incremental cost.
But if you can on average you may spend $1 million $1.5 million more on 20% of your wells.
We'll just stay efficient.
We'll figure out a way to make that work.
Your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
You commented about the flatter well declines from the lower benches.
Now that you have some production history -- well additional production history on those wells how do you think the EURs compare versus the Middle Bakken and Three Forks 1? What we've seen thus far on our lower benches is we have a range and we actually chart that against our 603 model which is our standard model.
We're still seeing some scattering.
If you look at some of our lower bench wells you have EURs in the 390 to 440 range.
You also have some that -- for instance our Angus well is going to be approaching 900 000 barrels equivalent.
So we do have a pretty good scattering thus far.
It's probably in all reality just below our 603 model but not substantially.
And there again I'd caution you but we just don't have a lot of test thus far.
Something we'll learn over time.
But at the end of the day we're very pleased with what we're seeing.
And Marshall I'm not sure if you're asking specifically about the Hawkinson but the Hawkinson has only been on for basically 1 week to do the testing and just now getting back online.
So it's really too early to say one way or the other.
I mean we're just basically reporting initial IP rates.
And remember we don't flare.
We put everything in down the line.
And so -- and we use the standard choke size.
So it's probably a little too early to talk about whether or not there is an EUR adjustment or anything like that if you're speaking specifically about some of these large density pilots.
Right right.
I was thinking -- I was talking more about the other areas outside of Hawkinson.
Okay perfect.
My -- just follow-up would be do you have -- how many net acres do you have -- net acres do you have in the Antelope area and also in the Northwest Cana? Yes Steve? Steve Owen? Yes.
In the Antelope prospect area we have a little over 32 000 acres.
Northwest Cana we have 147 000 acres.
And as Harold mentioned earlier about 2/3 of that is located within the Merrimack play or stacked play.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have to tell you ears back is not an expression you hear in Scotland very much.
But let me ask you given that this is really the outcome I guess of the successful down spacing and cross testing I guess you guys have been doing.
Was this already baked into your guidance for 2014 and at the longer-term plan that you presented last October? And I guess what I'm really try to figure out is there are no upside from the acceleration to your production targets? And I've got a follow up please.
Sure.
Doug to answer the simple question yes it is baked into our 2014 capital program.
And as we told you when we announced that a couple of months ago that we'd start -- as we came closer in end of the year we'd give you more color around that program.
So I think the takeaway for the Antelope is that we're moving into full-field development in an area we have a lot of data like.
We've got the infrastructure there already.
We're moving into that quicker.
So yes we're accelerating.
Is there upside to accelerating? Yes I believe there's considerable upside to accelerate both within Antelope.
Harold talked about what that production uplift might look like in the next 2 years.
It could go even higher if you start to drill that out and if we continue to see the great results and drive down costs as Rick Muncrief is challenged with doing as well as increasing the stimulation efficiencies.
So we do see considerable upside.
And you said you had a follow-up? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So I wanted to go back to the question on differentials because it appears or at from our point of view that waiting BP's refinery is now taking heavy crudes and releasing I guess a lot more light sweet into the -- they are backing a lot more light sweet into the region.
I'm just curious what do you think to your earlier comments if what we're seeing currently were these very light differentials relative to WTI is something that is relatively temporary? And if you could just remind us I think you touched on this earlier.
But just remind us where you're marketing stands as your ability to basically avoid getting the explorers to what's happening in the refinery.
I'll leave it there.
Doug that's a great question.
The BP refinery is switching to the heavy Canadian crude.
We didn't put much there but that is the pressure I've just described that's on the Clearbrook market.
And we're not putting any barrels in there and haven't for quite some time.
We're moving more and more barrels to the East and West Coast and that's where we have room to displace light sweet crude.
We have the Bakken crude is in such quality the refiners are really looking at do they want to switch to this heavy oil because we're getting very good yields out of the Bakken very good cost.
And I think we're going to go over the next year or 2 through a lot of replumbing if you will of the North America delivery systems.
We're seeing more pipelines coming in.
Pony Express announced they're going forward and they're building their line into Cushing from the Bakken.
We just heard this morning that Enbridge is going to go out with their Sandpiper line for an open season on that and that will take oil to the East and put it past the area and get it up into the Ohio River Valley and up into Canada.
And so that would be a couple of years out.
They'll be expanding that.
The East Coast refiners have built -- spent quite a bit of money now getting rail terminals in as have the West Coast and that keeps expanding and the refiners are improving in winning the Bakken crude.
You see them talk about that in their releases.
We have great relationships with these refiners.
Well we need them they need us so we're working in contracts that take care of both of us.
And so we're going to move together forward and find good markets for this crude and continue to grow.
And we have the premium crude in United States right now.
We're going to continue to find premium markets for it and continue to grow this asset.
Research Division</strong> So you feel pretty comfortable with your differential guidance currently? We do.
We're going to have some hiccups right now.
We're in a shoulder month where refining's down.
But I want to note that it is higher than normal and that's because refiners have also redefined themselves.
We're exporting more product out of the United States as refines.
We're way ahead this past week to report some AI gasoline exports really took off.
And so we're finding markets outside of the United States and we're growing that.
And so that all goes into the bucket of the reestablishment of the petrochemical industry and we're going to have just I think more wonderful news than bad news over the next 2 to 3 years as we replumb this and get everything moving.
And it all ties together and it's going to grow.
And there's going to be some months or maybe quarters that things are a little tough but we're going to work through that.
And it's going to be very strong long term.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When you look at plenty years back there at Antelope I guess how much time will it take or how much of the facility's expansion is complete at this point? The -- how long will it take? Well this is a really long program because there's a lot of acreage and a lot to do.
So this is all the way through 2017 probably program and seeing the maximum production uplift.
So -- and we're kind of a just-in-time delivery sort of company in terms of what needs to be done when it needs to be done.
So the infrastructure and the takeaway capacity is there now.
As Harold said it's almost there for 2014 activity and then we'll be working to make sure that that the 2015 '16 '17 ramp-up is all in place and that everything is ready to go when we bring these larger and larger pads on.
I think that's -- another takeaway is these mega-pads this is a topographically very challenging area to work in.
And so the team has done some tremendous engineering and some tremendous ideas on how to tie these things together working with the midstream vendors to make sure that we get that takeaway capacity in there.
And then -- we're then able to launch forward and really add some value here.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's just for the 33 000 acres of Antelope there I just want to take -- just 2017 then? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then the follow-up was do you have any update on I guess your views on secondary recovery and any pilots that you might have in the back of your mind for 2014 2015? Yes we're working on a couple of those.
Let's let Rick talk about that.
Yes Andrew.
We have plans that -- it will probably be just after the first of the year.
We may get it done early -- late December.
But more than likely right at the first of year we'll have our first injectivity test which will be underway in our Elm Coulee area in Montana.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay we'll watch for more of that I guess in the year end call.
Another area that doesn't catch much focus from you guys but we're also doing a pilot project in our Red River Units too which we're going to be kicking off here very very shortly.
Building some infrastructure and we're interested in seeing those results.
And I think that'll have a little bit of application into the Bakken.
Yes.
And to be clear that is a CO2 pilot in our Red River Units area.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Where is the CO2 supply coming from? We have -- we're having -- coming off the flue gas if you will or exhaust gas if you will off of one hydro pressure 2 or more plants.
Local supply -- it's just a local supply Andrew just to summarize there.
It's just one of the plants within the area.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Kantor.
Research Division</strong> Sorry if I missed this but I was wondering what the configuration would be for the 3 new high density tests you announced last night.
What zones you'll be targeting with these 18 wells? Will all 18 wells be new drills? And are there any existing producers that will contribute to the scale of each pilot that will be spaced 660 feet from the inter-wells installments you're drilling.
And yes on these projects we're going to be targeting the Middle Bakken first bench second bench and third bench and we've got a total of 18 wells.
And we're going to have 660 inter-spacing here and our plan is -- we're right now monitoring our results from Hawkinson and our other wells or units that we'll be bringing on Tangsrud and Wahpeton.
And from what we gain as knowledge from there will help us define exactly what pad we'd decide to go with.
But there are -- just to be clear there are existing wells that would be part of this.
Yes there are existing wells.
It's similar to what we've been doing here with the Hawkinson.
Research Division</strong> So the actual number of wells are going to be targeting each individual bench.
It sounds like that number is yet to be decided.
I don't have those numbers just right in front of me but we'll end up probably having in I guess we'd say 6 existing we'll probably be having 2? 2 to 3? 2 to 3.
2? Yes probably 2.
In other words one that would pair in each of these zones.
So to be clear there Eli we're not -- because we don't want to wait for the time to drill out all of the whole spacing unit we'll basically take a portion of that.
But the 660 for offset is the key point.
That's how far apart the wells will be and so that we can get results there and then be able to scale up beyond that quickly.
Research Division</strong> And timing on results again for these rigs? Well those are going to be in second half towards year end.
We'll be getting the results from our other density pilots.
The other 3 that we have right now we'll be getting those results here in the first half of next year.
So I guess the summary there is you should expect 6 density pilot announcements in 2015 results.
'14.
'14.
Sorry '14.
I'm already working on '15.
I know.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Can you -- in the density test did the pretty the preexisting wells do anything peculiar when you turn them back on after the other wells have been frac-ed? One thing we saw there Gill is an increase of several hundred barrels a day in those wells.
Part of that was I want to guess is a function of being shut in for a while that testing.
But it's apparent that we did get some charge from that work.
So that's why when Rick mentioned earlier that we're going to -- I think the proper way to look at this is going to be gross uplift by interest at the unit level because not only here but on the Montana side as we mentioned earlier we do see some charge from our stimulation.
Inc</strong> Okay great.
And can you remind me I don't recall at this point but what other 660 good spacings have you tested or have you done that or not necessarily within the density test but just straight lateral spacing test and what were the results of those? I don't believe we...
I don't think we have.
We've not done any.
We've done a few early on.
We did a few experiments wells that were even closer that kind of overlaying each other.
And that was between Middle Bakken in the first bench.
But well no we haven't gone out and done any program of a 660 sort of offset.
So there isn't much data.
The Wahpeton is the first one.
And we'll expect those results to have that completed in April.
So as soon as we can after that we will be giving you those results.
In fact the closest thing that we would have to a 660 is actually on the Montana side where we have about 800 feet of inter-well distance there and we've seen some great results there.
And that's what's helped drive these volume increases that Rick referred to earlier where we actually doubled Montana's volumes in the last 12 months.
And to bring in that data set there that's pretty consistent where those parent wells have had significant uplift and have held at a better decline rate.
And so that leaves us to starting to conceptually think about what is the uplift for the unit -- what's the uplift for the entire unit.
Interference is not really the issue.
We will be uplifting for the entire unit.
Inc</strong> Right right okay.
And then last thing about that is these net aligners I know you want to test them for a while.
But what's sort of the initial -- what were sort of the initial rate differences versus uncemented well? Yes we can't really tell any differences thus far in the cemented versus uncemented.
That is way [indiscernible].
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Grigel with Macquarie.
On Ears Back project what consideration was given to a balancing of spud-to-sales timing versus getting results online a little bit sooner? What a great question.
Thanks Paul.
There are a number of things we're doing to make sure we don't inventory capital and to make sure we're getting that production on as quickly as possible.
First of all within that program there are a lot of 6-well pads and 8-well pads that we can drill much quicker and drill pairs doing our typical zipper fracs all those sorts of things.
So we're doing -- we're continuing wit that base knowledge to make sure we deliver our production guidance.
And as we've alluded to earlier in some of our detailed discussions and presentations as we go to these larger and larger pads we're segregating those into subareas that we can batch drill batch complete and SIMOPs operations then as we move to the next one.
So that you're talking about 7 or 8 wells at a time to be able to bring on part of these mega-pads.
And then you sequentially go through that to bring on the whole mega-pad.
So exactly to your point we are doing everything we can to make sure we get that production on as quickly as possible.
And that just gives you the opportunity to monitor results and get that production history match as well for a lot of the tests we're doing.
And plus having pipelines there oil water zone and gas particularly large gas lines.
Yes.
And I want to make sure you guys don't miss that headline.
All of this has been in our 2014 budget plan.
So our capital is set and we're going to deliver this with the capital we told you.
Great.
And if this is kind of the way to move forward in the play what are you kind of from a strategic sense see? Is it being impact of the play? I mean does it really create an increase of consolidation opportunities given the large capital investment moving forward? Say that last part again? Does it create an opportunity with the large capital investment that has to go into these mega-pads for essentially consolidating opportunities into the larger player such as yourselves from smaller independents? Oh wow I think that's exactly the case.
I think that's very important.
I think if you -- and I'll let Harold comment on the back of my comments but if you take the Hawkinson and look at the big picture this is the culmination of a lot of very small pieces of understanding and very small tests including the lower benches where we've proven we have commercial.
It's going to be a significant component of the oil produced in that core of the play.
The down spacing density pilots have given us a lot of encouragement and we're starting to think about the uplift for the whole section.
Because we're all -- the whole thing we're focusing on here is how you maximize the commercial recovery of the oil that's in this rock and we're creating the permeability here with the stimulation.
How do you stimulate there most effectively? How do you go back and restimulate so that you're going to accelerate in the Full-field development? But the whole thing is trying to -- we think we've made the pie bigger with the -- in the Bakken with these proving the productive -- commercial product capacity of the deeper benches at Three Forks.
And these density pilots essentially increase the recovery factor expectations of the field.
So now we've -- now that we've created the pie bigger we're also going to eat more of the pie.
And I think as far as the acquisitions we have seen some of the smaller players basically sell their acreage to other larger operators.
We've seen some of that in the past and I'm sure that will continue to be.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Oatman with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I hopped on the call a little late so I apologize if you mentioned this.
But on this Hawkinson test did you provide the well rates by zone? Yes we gave you averages out there for the individual and all the TF2 and TF3.
They can model 1 070 barrels equivalent a day and the...
From Slide 4 in the presentation.
Yes I was going to I'm just trying to find that one for you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I got you I got you.
But are there any rates available between the Three Forks 2 and Three Forks 3? Or I guess more broadly speaking did you see similar type performance between those 2 benches? Yes we did actually and they are remarkably similar.
And really Ryan at this point when we were at this stage of the program here we can get kind of lost in the individual results and what's really important I think at this stage of the game is really step back and look at the big picture here of what's actually happened between our exploratory Lower Three Forks program and now these density tests in the Lower Three Forks.
And right now we've got 27 wells at Lower Three Forks that we've drilled and tested.
And this includes 20 in the exploratory and 7 in the density.
And we're looking at about 300 square mile footprint of proven productivity now in the lower benches.
And as you'd expect results vary in these zones by area and even by zone a bit.
But in general they're in line with the nearby producers.
And what the bottom line is as it appears we have substantial increase that won't be recovered from this field.
And really in support of this is that out of the 27 we've only seen 3 wells right now that have shown influence from offsetting legacy wells.
So it's really like really 10% of the wells.
And so in saying this it looks like that's really -- the interference is not really the big issue as had Rick said.
It's really about what kind of uplift do we ultimately going to get out of these units.
And one of the things we are seeing is that the legacy wells are showing an increase in productivity.
And with that it really does help focus us down to where we're right now.
I think going forward here the shift needs to really change from focusing on individual well outcomes to really the unit performance and unit uplift.
And that's really where we're headed here.
Because you'll see some wells when may come on they may not be as strong.
But yet you're seeing lots of wells increase.
And so the net effect is the unit has an uplift and you're getting -- essentially that stimulation is influencing production somewhere in that unit.
So all that said we could get into the granularity on individual wells and I think I've got a list here and we could go through these IPs.
But that's really kind of the end game right there.
The story is -- fortunately we feel if we look down the road and we're really transitioning into this Full-field development model now.
And the big deal now is just defining what is the proper density what is the proper spacing to maximize oil recovery out of this just more class oil field.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean there has been a fascinating evolution here and certainly very interesting to watch from our perspective over here.
Moving over to the SCOOP it does look like the acreage footprint improved pretty significantly quarter-over-quarter picking up a little over 40 000 net acres.
Where was that acreage I guess first? And then secondly how do you feel about what you've delineated so far in terms of what percent of the acreage do you feel like is de-risked at this point with the latest Zelda step out? Yes Ryan.
We actually answered that earlier in the call.
We talked about our acreage position in the SCOOP.
And yes we've added acreage there.
Like we've done in the Bakken we just continue in the areas that we like.
We continue to build positions and do some trades and things like that and sort of maximize the position in areas we like.
So that's kind of an ongoing program in every play we're in.
Specifically about the de-risk area I think the Zelda well was pretty important.
I'll refer you to Slide 8 in our presentation.
It shows you where Zelda was and it adds about another 20 miles or so of a step out.
And so it brings us into an area that -- So we're extending the play down to the Southeast as we've talked about.
So our whole goal year for this year and next year has been to HBP our acreage and continue to extend the parts of the play that we think have de-risked.
I can't give you an actual percentage maybe Jack can maybe it's at 60-30 60-40 sort of split but that's probably just a guess.
Well we have gone past our allotted time for the call this morning.
I want to appreciate all the participation we've had.
If you have any additional follow up please reach out to Warren Henry and myself and we'll be happy to do so.
Our contact information is at the end of the release.
Thank you for joining our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to the Continental Resources Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Kilgallon Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Vanessa and good morning and welcome to the Continental Resources Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call this morning with prepared remarks will be Harold Hamm our Founder Chairman and Chief Operating Officer; Rick Bott President Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also available during the Q&amp;A sessions are other members of the Management team including Jeff Hume Vice Chairman of Strategic Growth Initiatives; Jack Stark Senior Vice President of Exploration; Rick Muncrief Senior Vice President of Operations; Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land; and Warren Henry Vice President of Research and Policy.
In conjunction with the earnings press release and our call this morning we have posted a summary presentation on the Continental website at www.clr.com as a reference tool.
This presentation can be found in the For Investor section of our website.
It is also posted within the web portal for your reference.
Today's call will include forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's annual report on Form 10-K filed this morning with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information regarding these statements and risks.
Also in today's call we may refer to EBITDAX cash margin adjusted net income per diluted share and PV-10.
For a reconciliation of EBITDAX to GAAP net income and operating cash flows a description of the calculation of cash margin a reconciliation of adjusted net income per diluted share to GAAP net income per diluted share and a description of PV-10 please refer to the summary presentation materials I mentioned earlier that can be found at our website With that I'll turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you John.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us on the call this morning.
In 2013 the Continental team delivered another year of record performance closing with a strong fourth quarter despite weather conditions and challenges in North Dakota and Montana.
We delivered on our commitments hitting key targets in terms of production growth capital efficiency exploration success and proved reserves growth.
In just a moment Rick Bott and John Hart will review our 2013 report card specifically noting our 2013 goals and just how we achieved them.
However since this review of 2013 I'd like to think with you strategically for a moment about Continental Resources.
We've built a leading E&amp;P company with an exceptional track record of exploration success in the Sayer [ph] Hill Bakken and SCOOP plays with more to come.
Since our initial public offering in May 2007 we've created outstanding value.
In the process we've participated in a historic energy renaissance in the United States that is literally changing our entire world.
This renaissance will have a profound positive impact on U.S.
Energy Security and our economy.
Continental is increasingly and rightfully recognized as one of the key leaders in American energy renaissance given our leadership in these strategic plays.
However apart from Continental's role as energy leader how does the company continue to rank as the investment opportunity? What is the state of the company's investment thesis? We see an outstanding opportunity to continue generating exceptional shareholder value for you.
To understand our view let's consider 4 points as we close 2013 in the context of the first year of our new 5-year plan.
Point one.
Continental remains a high-growth company committed to exceptional production growth.
Last year we increased production 39% almost entirely through the drill bid and we're on track to achieve our 5-year goal of tripling production by year end 2017.
That means by year end 2017 production should be roughly doubled what it is today.
We're focused on strong profitable growth.
Point two.
We have a tremendous growth platform a multi-decade drilling inventory and premier oil and liquids concentrated resource place.
We continue to add to our key leasehold positions in 2013 and now have more than 1.2 million net acreage in the Bakken.
As a leader in the play we are transitioning in the full development mode so we can maximize the payback on our highest return lease holds.
This is the Ears Back program in Antelope.
In SCOOP we increased our leasehold almost 404 000 net acres at year end 2013.
We're seeing very strong results as we delineate the play with exploratory Bakken and SCOOP exemplify our focus on the superior value of oil and liquids although the run up in natural gas prices in recent weeks demonstrate the option value we have if natural gas prices strengthen in future years.
SCOOP returns should be even stronger in future years if we get the same higher natural gas prices.
Still our value cornerstone is oil.
2013 production was 71% oil and our year end 2013 proved reserves were 68% oil.
Point three.
Continental is an exploration company it's just in our DNA.
In 2008 with the first 3 explorers the first bench of the Three Forks in previous commerciality.
In 2013 we repeated this by exploring with productivity and density test to lower benches in the Three Forks.
As our Hawkinson density test demonstrates the Three Forks package is larger than anyone knew just 2 years ago.
And it should be a significant contributor to our production in proved reserves growth in the years ahead.
Exploration is also the key to SCOOP.
In 2012 at the time we were clearly executing so well in the Bakken many asked why Continental is spending CapEx on the new geologic concept in the SCOOP and other plays.
The answer is now clear.
As explorationists we're always looking for the next opportunity to apply our experience in new technology to create value that SCOOP fits the bill.
SCOOP today is recognized as tremendous additional growth platform and we're more excited than ever as we delineate SCOOP to the South and expand our footprint into play.
SCOOP well economics are on par with the Bakken and we're just ramping up our extended lateral growing program here in Oklahoma which we expect will boost return further.
In addition to these 2 cornerstone plays we're actively working on new opportunities to acquire experience in lays drilling and completion technologies to new growth opportunities.
Finally point four.
Our business model is focused on profitable growth by maximizing returns and cash flow.
One element this effort involves operating excellence constantly working to operate more efficiently and at lower costs while challenging ourselves to better our safety and environmental performance.
As noted we're exploring not only with the drill bid but through the application of new technology.
2013 was a tremendous year on all counts.
Our teams are developing and managing new markets in maximizing the value of our production.
They are working to deliver as much value as possible from every barrel in Mcf to the bottom line.
We are continuing to work to develop additional new markets for oil and natural gas production.
So we believe Continental's value creation opportunity is as strong as ever.
Our current 5-year growth plan is just the beginning of what we see as a multi-decade growth trajectory based on premium inventories strong production growth strong cash flow growth and operating excellence.
We're proud of Continental team's 2013 achievements which translate directly and increase shareholder value.
We had some tough weather challenges towards the end of 2013 but we're a longtime player in North Dakota and we're not complaining about the weather.
The extended cold weather brought natural gas prices out of the door into where they're respectful again and prices maybe there for a while considering storage.
So we're not complaining.
So now the key question is what's next for Continental? We'll be reporting our progress to you through the remainder of the year.
But please make plans for our 2014 Investor Day which we're tentatively scheduling for around mid-September again in Oklahoma City.
Stay tuned as we get closer and announce the date to put on your calendars.
It will be a content-rich download on our key exploration and development projects and growth strategy so you will certainly want to attend.
With that now I'll turn the call back over to Rick.
Rick? Thanks Harold.
He mentioned in the report card in terms of 2013 as a whole the Continental team certainly delivered it's A game again this year.
We set out to grow production 35% to 40% over 2012 then increased that goal to top of the range.
Final results 39% year-over-year production growth.
We ended 2013 on a strong note despite challenges in December with severe winter weather as we discussed in our February 6 press release.
Production of 144 250 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the fourth quarter was 35% above the year-ago quarter and 2% above the third quarter of '13.
Currently productions recovering nicely as now approximately 150 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Crude over here reserves at year end '13 reflected strong drilling programs in the Bakken and SCOOP this past year.
We reported record proved reserves of 1.08 billion barrels of oil equivalent a 38% increase over year-end 2012.
The Bakken now accounts for 68% of proved reserves and our drilling acceleration in SCOOP has increased its reserve contribution to 20% of proved reserves in less than 2 years.
In value terms PV-10 for our total proved reserves was 22 -- 20.2 billion at year end 2013 a 52% increase over the PV-10 of 13.3 billion at year end '12.
We're solidly on track to achieve our 5-year growth targets with 1 year in the bank.
With regards to our 2013 highlights I'd like to concentrate on several significant achievements in exploration and operations.
What we started in 2013 will continue to have impact and be key catalyst in our 2014 '15 growth picture.
First we set out in late 2012 to implement an ambitious 22-well Lower Three Forks exploration program to demonstrate commercial productivity across the Bakken play in North Dakota.
The other part of the program was 4 multi-well density drilling tests to help us determine optimal well spacing in the Middle Bakken first second and third benches of the Three Forks.
We completed all 22 productivity wells and are now monitoring production history to build decline client curves for the lower benches.
In the meantime work continues on the density testing.
In November 2013 we announced initial results from the first test the Hawkinson project in Dunn County.
The Hawkinson project involves 3 legacy wells in the Middle Bakken and first batches of Three Forks and 11 new well space 1 320 feet apart within zone and offset vertically 660 feet.
The new wells are in the Middle Bakken first second and third benches of the Three Forks.
Based on the first 120 days of production average production for 12 of the 14 wells is on a trend approximately 50% higher than the company's 603 barrels of oil equivalent model for the North Dakota Bakken.
The 2 exception wells are in the TF3 zone.
They were recently put on pump and are producing on a trend below the 603 barrels model and improving.
Given the early nature of the production these trends of course could change over time.
The next 3 density tests are being completed the Tangsrud Rollefstad and Wahpeton.
We had hopes to report initial results for the Tangsrud and Rollefstad on this call but the severe winter weather delayed that schedule.
These 2 projects which are testing again the 1 320-foot spacing should be ready to report on our May earnings call if not earlier.
Initial results from the Wahpeton which is testing the 60-foot spacing between wells were also delayed and will likely be ready by mid-year.
Based on our positive results to date we've begun drilling 3 additional 660-foot spacing density test in the Hartman Lawrence and Mack units which are on the slide supplemental to this presentation.
So we're very pleased with our density testing program.
The Hawkinson area in Dunn County was a good test and the location was strong production potential.
Based on the results from all 7 density tests we plan to be ready next year to accelerate full-field development in multiple areas of the play.
However we received a lot of questions since our announcement last night so let me pause just a moment to comment on the deeper benches to answer some of these questions.
I guess I didn't realize that Hawkinson had quickly become such a household name.
But testing these deeper benches has not been about whether they meet our 603 model some do and some don't.
But on average they fit the distribution of other wells in a given area.
The key for us is that we have established commercial production over a very large area.
It's always been to define the component parts of the petroleum system to determine how best to proceed with full-field development.
So we cost-effectively get the most out of these reservoirs.
We believe future technology advances as well as efficiency gains will only increase the commerciality of these zones within this large footprint.
So it's also important to understand where we are in our overall Bakken exploration program so let me step back for a moment and provide some context.
We're nearing the end of really a 6-year process where our primary goals are to expand the play geographically and vertically to de-risk of growing leasehold position and to hold core leasehold by production.
Information gathering and de-risking has driven this process.
We are now beginning to shift into full-field development starting with Antelope as Harold mentioned where we have more opportunity to truly maximize efficiencies and rates of return.
Now looking -- again looking back over the same period all Bakken operators needed to build up execution capability including drilling rig fleet service providers train new crews construct gathering and takeaway capacities as well as build basic infrastructure for rapidly growing communities and a growing workforce.
There were a lot of growing pains to get through.
These macro issues are behind us now.
The industry and infrastructure have for the most part caught up with the Bakken.
Drilling rigs have leveled off at 180-or-so combining in Montana and North Dakota.
Gas processing capacity is catching up rail transportation systems have been built out and additional pipeline takeaway capacity is on the horizon.
Basin-wide production can therefore continue to grow because of all of this investment.
This makes huge a difference in terms of communities in northwestern North Dakota.
For example with more gathering capacity we can get many trucks off the road and reduce congestion.
More gas process capacity enables the industry to reduce flaring.
But the progress we've made is also critical in terms of optimizing efficiency safety and environmental stewardship in our operations.
We're making huge strides.
Moving into full-field development in Antelope provides yet another opportunity to improve on an already great game in the Bakken.
Our operating teams did a tremendous job managing the growth in the past year lately under challenging weather conditions.
Their performance in 2013 was simply outstanding.
Now let's discuss well costs and operating efficiencies to provide yet another example.
Our 5-year goal was to reduce well costs by an average of 3% to 5% per year and again we did A plus work in the first year.
Our 2013 goal was to reduce Bakken well costs from $9.2 million to $8.2 million by year end or 11%.
We made so much progress in the first half we lowered the goal to $8 million and we hit that target in the third quarter.
So the first year we have a 13% reduction in well costs.
Our goal for year end 2014 is $7.5 million per well for our standard design Bakken well or another 6% reduction.
Now we've also announced we'll be trying an alternative completion designs on about 20% of our Bakken wells this year so their costs are likely to be higher.
The other key exploration achievement I'd like to highlight involves SCOOP.
We only introduced a new play at our 2012 Investor Day just 17 months ago.
We told you the goals for 2013 would be to continue expanding our leasehold position while increasing our understanding of SCOOP's geology.
We made tremendous progress last year.
As Harold noted we increased our leasehold position significantly.
Our key emphasis in SCOOP for the next couple of years will be delineation and appraisal of our leasehold position.
Just over half of our operator rigs are drilling extended laterals an important step in improving already solid returns.
We're also planning to do spacing tests and maybe wandered a couple density pilots later this year to prepare us to accelerate into development mode in future years.
Fourth quarter 2000 in production in SCOOP was more than triple production in the final quarter in 2012 which really tells a story.
Although we're early in the learning curve in SCOOP we plan to reduce well costs there as well.
Our year end 2014 target is a blended average of $8.7 million for a 1-mile lateral well including wells in both the condensate and oil fairways.
This short lateral well cost target compares with a fourth quarter 2013 average of $9.1 million for a typical exploration well in SCOOP.
This is a little higher than we discussed early last year because we have increased the number of stages in our standard completion design.
Our year-end target for extended laterals is $13.5 million per well and when we eventually transition to development drilling we'll have a greater opportunity to reduce well cost.
Before handling the call over to John let me emphasize that 2012 was a watershed year for Continental Resources as we grew the management and technical teams in preparation to be a significantly larger operator and producer by the end of 2017.
By the operating and financial numbers it was a great execution year it gives us even more confidence in achieving our 5-year goal.
Behind the numbers we're also putting a lot of effort recruiting and integrating new people and skill sets in the Continental's organization but at the same time working hard to preserve the key traits that made this company so successful in the past 47 years its innovation and entrepreneurial spirit always alert for the next opportunity.
The love of exploration with prudent risk-taking integrity hard work and striving to be among the best wherever we work.
We are absolutely determined to preserve these values as we become a larger more complex company growing towards the achievement of our 5-year goal.
With that I'll just turn the call over to John.
Thanks Rick.
I'd like to look this morning at some of our other performance and financial metrics especially as they relate to our 2013 guidance.
We committed to achieve and effortly revise production goal of 38% to 40% growth with a CapEx budget of $3.6 billion and we were very disciplined with our spending throughout the year.
The final number was 39% production growth and $3.57 billion in non-acquisition CapEx which was $30 million under budget.
The key element in achieving this goal was -- it was improved operating efficiency.
Rick noted the decreased well costs in our year end 2014 targets.
Lower well costs continue to be an essential element in our overall capital and operating efficiency efforts.
We had similar results with operating expenses.
Our revised goal for production expenses was a range of $5.60 to $6 per Boe of production and we came in at the bottom end of the range $5.69 per Boe for the year.
We were a bit higher than this for the fourth quarter but that simply reflected the deferred production volumes and temporary inefficiencies associated with weather.
Our target for cash G&amp;A expense was $2 to $2.50 and we again came in at the low end of the range at $2.07 per Boe.
Non-cash equity compensation was right on target at $0.80 per Boe.
Finally DD&amp;A was projected to be in the range of $18.50 to $19.50 per Boe a positive reduction from the original guidance of $19 to $21.
For full year 2013 we achieved actual results of $19.47.
The fourth quarter result was slightly higher due to the mix of wells completed and higher DD&amp;A rates as we've focused on delineating the extent of the play as well as testing the upper Bakken shale in multiple locations.
While some of the upper Bakken shale tests were promising initially their decline rates overall were steeper than normal for the play.
We expect several related factors to reduce DD&amp;A in 2014.
First the completion and production of our Tangsrud Rollefstad and Wahpeton density projects in the first and second quarters.
Additionally development drilling in the Antelope part of the play and further exploratory drilling in [indiscernible].
The average oil differential for 2013 came in at $8.23 per barrel based on year end volatility in prices and spreads in the fourth quarter.
This was lower than 2012 but slightly over the guidance range of $6 to $8 per barrel for 2013.
Volatility will be a continuing challenge.
Our guidance for 2014 is an oil differential range of $8 to $11 per barrel.
On the other hand our natural gas differential was a premium with $1.59 per Mcf for 2013 $0.09 above the top end of our guidance range of $1 to $1.50 reflecting the richness of the gas we produce.
In terms of 2014 we reiterated guidance in yesterday's press release.
We remain confident of hitting the 26% to 32% production growth target despite winter weather challenges in early January.
We continue to roll in new hedge positions to support the stability of our drilling program and production growth.
We continue to work the balance our derivative positions with our physical deliveries of oil as much as possible.
We believe our utilization of financial hedges is a prudent measure providing stability and operational flexibility for executing on our growth and capital plans.
Please refer to our 10-K filed this morning for a summary of our positions at year end.
Next let me add some color to Harold's point about our ability to source capital efficiently to support our growth strategy.
One objective from the finance side of the business has been to reduce borrowing costs and expand our capital options taking advantage of the flexibility inherent to Continental's strong balance sheet.
Clearly our track record of exceptional operating performance is critical to this.
We believe this record was an important factor in S&amp;P and Moody's upgrading Continental to investment grade status in 2013 which obviously indicates we're on the right track in terms of disciplined growth.
Continental possesses long life high-quality assets that support significant growth for years to come attaining investment grade not only a test of the quality of our assets but it would also enable us to finance growth with greater certainty and to access broader markets.
We've also put in a great deal of effort in areas that are difficult for investors to depreciate because they are behind the scenes.
We've made significant strides in the past 18 months to cost effectively build the internal infrastructure we will need at the year end 2017 when Continental is 3x the size it was at the end of 2012.
This type of preparation is taking place throughout the Continental organization and gives us increased confidence that we will hit our 5-year growth goals.
We want to be sure and thank our teams for their efforts and commitments to our shared goals.
In summary 2013 was a significant year in the Continental growth story.
We have dramatically changed the company's profile in the last several years transitioning from a small independent oil company focused on the emerging Bakken play to one of America's larger independents with strong operating footprints in 2 leading resource plays.
2014 is shaping up to be another year of strong growth in production proved reserves and cash flow underpinned by a strong balance sheet.
With that I'd like to turn the call back over to our moderator for the question-and-answer period.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Vanessa let's go to the next one.
We'll see if Doug can get back in the queue.
We now have a question from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys can you speak to kind of current SCOOP EURs? It looks like your production there has kind of outperformed versus your curves you had out there.
Just wanted to see whether those were kind of a year end '13 the reserve report? Yes Leo it's Rick Muncrief.
In the gas cost you're looking about 1.2 million barrel equivalent and then in the oil fairway you're looking at about 650 MBoe.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess are those all on kind of short lateral wells I'm guessing? That's correct.
That's -- those are all assuming the 1-mile laterals.
Leo just to follow-up on that.
We're -- as you guys you've seen it from our release we're drilling a lot a higher percentage of these cross-unit wells.
So it's going to later in the year before we actually come out with EURs for cross-unit wells.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
I guess just looking at the Bakken obviously you guys talked about weather impact.
Is it possible for you guys to kind of quantify what you saw in the fourth quarter in terms of kind of what your lost? And it sounds like maybe you didn't get as many wells online in the Bakken in the fourth quarter.
Could you -- do you have that number for us as well in terms of net wells completed? Yes Leo.
That number would be approximately 5 000 barrels a day equivalent for the quarterly average.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just the number of wells you guys brought on in the fourth quarter on a net basis in the Bakken do you guys have that? We bought on 37 net 163 gross wells IP 1 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the total North Dakota.
Montana 14 net 17 gross 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day average IP.
And our next question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> In the Bakken can you talk about what you've seen so far as you experiment with different completions? We're still early.
We have tried several things.
First off we've tried several hybrid jobs that's where you start with more of slick water type design and then transition to a linear gel onto a cross-linked gel and increase your profit concentration.
We've seen a scattering of results on that.
We're encouraged by that.
We've also pumped a handful of slick water jobs.
The results we've seen thus far are once again somewhat mixed and we see some increased productivity certainly probably more so in the Middle Bakken than we do in the Three Forks thus far.
But I'd also warned that we just have a handful of results and there'll be more we'll talk about later on.
And then the last thing that we have done is we've increased proppant.
And one of the proppant projects you'll hear about in the near future is the Rollefstad and that's one that where we have been [indiscernible] our stimulation designed by more proppant per stage on all those wells.
And so still has results and we will talk about later in the year.
But that's we're at.
As we've announced earlier we're going to allocate about 20% of our capital program to try something different in our base design and we're off to a great start on that.
So the acceleration of that will hopefully allow us to really hone in on the water of ultimate design needs to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in the SCOOP can you compare the recent results to your expectations? I guess it would be helpful in particular if you could talk about how the 2-mile laterals compared to the single mile lateral results.
Well what we've seen thus far as that we've talked about is from a total comparison you're looking at about a 50% increase on the CapEx and we're seeing 2 -- to slightly over 2x the productivity from a production rate and reserves.
So we're extremely happy with the results we've seen thus far and we think that's absolutely the way to develop this field over the long haul.
We now have a question from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Guys if I can go back to the SCOOP real quick.
So one of your competitors obviously the Newfield does come out with another upgrade.
To their type curve it looks like yours is about I guess a couple years old now.
Are we going to see you guys update your EURs on a per well basis? And how should we think about what the SCOOP looks like in a go-forward basis relative to the 2012 Analyst Day? Yes Doug.
It's Rick Muncrief gain.
We will be updating our type curves.
And as Harold mentioned the Analyst Day that we're going to have in September we think that you're going to really be quite pleased with everything you'll see there.
But what we have now is we have a handful of wells with the extended laterals some of those are just over 6 000 feet and we have some others that are 9 200 feet.
And so we've got a smattering of different lengths of laterals.
What we see a very strong correlation on is the lateral foot the recovery per lateral foot is pretty predictive.
And so from that we think that we'll be able to update our type curves I think you're going to like what you see.
Research Division</strong> Oh okay.
I guess we'll wait a couple of months about that.
While I have you down I wonder if I could ask you the same question about the Bakken.
We haven't really heard you talk much about how the experimentation and completion design is it might be impacting EURs and ultimately your development plans in the EON.
I guess the Hawkinson is probably a good example of how this is going to play.
Can you give us an idea as to whether or not you still think that you're -- I guess you've stopped with 603 now for quite some time.
Has the development area for Middle Bakken Three Forks as an average how should we think about completion changes and ultimately the upside or maybe the risk factor to 603? A little bit there.
When we've stuck to the 603 I believe we laid that out for the first time in mid-2011.
And so coming up on 3 years of that 603 model and we really haven't changed it-- we haven't seen the need to change it.
It seems like it's -- we're been able to deliver the programs that we have planned for.
That being said as we get into more of these multi-well unit developments we're going to have a lot of factors.
We're very bullish obviously on the Lower Three Forks as we've mentioned in our press release and what the results we're seeing for the Hawkinson.
We're seeing the improved drilling cost we're extremely excited about that.
And then the completion techniques that we're trying we're going to get to an answer that we think is the way to ultimately develop the field.
And so once again I think you stay tuned.
We're going to have enough information.
It's real hard sometimes to be patient to wait on that information but I think that's what is going to be so key for us is that patience.
And one area too Doug that you might keep in mind we're just now starting one of the development of the funded better areas of our whole Bakken acreage and that's Antelope so what we're calling here Ears Back.
So that's large area and so that's going to also impact our model.
Research Division</strong> Guys I don't want to be greedy with time here but real quick let me just follow-up.
So under the links for the guidance you gave on production is it fair to assume that when you laid our your original 5-year plan a couple of years ago your first couple of years are running ahead of that guidance but your completion seems to be improving your EURs I guess and the SCOOP are probably going to be improving.
Is it fair to say there's probably some upside in production targets at this point? Well I guess it all depends on price doesn't it Doug? I mean at the end of the day we put out what we thought was a reasonable program for our 5-year plan.
And we told you when we put that out that we were going to try to hit the ground running because we felt there was an opportunity for value capture and in the near-term and to also prove some key things that we're going to move the needle in terms of total resource capacity in the Bakken.
And just as a reminder the 5-year plan really only required the first bench and the Middle Bakken to deliver the 5-year plan.
And so everything that we're doing in SCOOP everything we're doing in the lower benches is additive to the 5-year plan.
But ultimately the 5-year plan will become sort of secondary in terms of the full-field development we start rolling into that.
And so is there upside? There is upside but there's always risk on the downside too.
So we're still pretty comfortable with that 5-year plan.
We think getting ahead of it the first year gives us versatility in terms of making sure we can deliver it and now we've got optionality in the different play in SCOOP and it's paid out for us in terms of the weather.
The weather wasn't as impactful in SCOOP although we did have some impact but it allows us to still hit that production target that we promised our investors.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first is on the rail side.
Given that all that's gone on with regards to the potential for having to retrofit refurbish or replace some of the tank cars.
Can you just talk about your expectations and the conversations that you're having with your rail providers for the timing and the cost to producers of potential changes to the tank cars? And do you see a potential period of disruption even if it's temporary? This is Jeff Hume.
And we have had conversations with all of the rail transporters that we're using both the rail road and the car manufacturers.
They are currently going through design studies now of what -- where they will go with those cards you saw the Burlington Northern Santa Fe and court orders in for over 5 000 cars with 2011 designs with some modifications.
I think they'll come out with those quickly.
From talking to the DOT I think that we'll be more than likely brought in over a period of time to accommodate continued movement of the crude oil as we're bringing new car and upgrade it.
There's quite a few of those new-styled cars already on the tracks.
Most of the refiners that have added those cars that we deal with are using the new cars already.
So we feel pretty comfortable here at Continental with the shipment of our crude oil continued.
We applaud the scrutiny I think they're barrel safety is key to continued use of rail for movement of oil is growing and working well.
So we applaud the moves they're making.
We think it will be managed in a way that will not interrupt our business and will be in good shape.
In addition to that Brian.
We have a lot of new pipes coming on this year and so we think the combination of that make sure that we get our oil out in good shape.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my second question is in the press release when you're talking about the Hawkinson results I think you indicated that it validates your vision for full-field development of the Bakken.
And I recognize that you've got more pilots less to fully validate your vision.
But can you just talk more specifically about that vision when applied to spacing number of zones and then the differentiation across your acreage? Well it's real simple Brian.
In fact I'm going to invite Jack to comment on add to these comments.
We think we've basically proven commercial productivity over a very large footprint at 3 800 square miles.
We also recognize as we've told you guys all along that the rocks might be a little bit different in different areas.
And as a rule the deeper benches second and third bench come in pretty much in line with other wells in that area.
We've talked about how the rock quality changes and the saturations changes as we go down into the interval so I think we've talked about that numerous times.
But the bottom line on this is there's commercial oil in the second and third benches and we would not be prudent if we left it behind.
So it's going to be a part of our full-field development but that's going to be kind of an area-by-area sort of basis and we think the economics and rate of return in some of those deeper wells compete with anything we've got.
So you probably will see us based on an area basis.
Don't know what the exact spacing will be.
We've got as you say we've got 6 more pilots to get under our belt and then we need production history from those to see how things change over 6 months and a year before we make those final decisions by area.
But we think it's significantly added to the recoverable resource of the basin in the entire petroleum system.
Jack can you add to that? No I think that really covered that well Rick.
Research Division</strong> And do you view Hawkinson as a sweet spot within that -- within your acreage based on what you've seen? This area here we do see above average production in the Hawkinson unit.
But as far its character as far as Three Forks is concerned or reservoirs no it's pretty much similar to what we see across the basin here as to the Lower Three Forks.
I'll just add to that Brian that certainly because we've got the data now and we have another 6 months worth of production it becomes a prime candidate to move into full-field development but so do the other 7 areas that we're doing these pilot programs on.
Yes and the key thing here is that this is only full-field development project that is actually -- this is the first full development in the field.
We've got well bores in 4 zones and we're seeing that all 4 zones are contributing and they're contributing at just great rates.
I'm very encouraged of what we're seeing here and the results that we have in that third bench.
To me extremely encouraging here.
It fits right in line with our expectations from what we know about the geology.
As Rick mentioned we do see variations in the rock as we go deeper.
And so I'd just say that this is a great start for us to get a clear vision of what it takes to fully develop this unit or this field and basically leave no oil behind.
Our next question comes from Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> On the SCOOP play you've got a good job of building the acreage position over the last probably several quarters.
Have the recent acreage adds been in the sort of original de-risk footprint or they've been more in the expanding part of the play to the South? And what percentage of your acreage would you say is now in the oil window versus the condensate window? Yes this is Steve Owen.
We have put together a very substantial position throughout the entire play.
We really aren't well into providing any additional data or detail at this point as to our leasehold position.
Suffice it to say we're continuing the acquire and lease in all of the key areas throughout SCOOP.
And with regards to just what is what's in the oil window condensate and gas approximately right now we'd say of maybe about 40% of the position is in the oil 40% is in condensate and the rest in more of a gas area.
But Marshall in terms of the play -- and we kind of define the play and I think we're pretty comfortable that we've got a significant a good portion in all the good parts of the play.
So I think we're pretty happy where we are.
We've got some good acreage.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess a follow-up how many of the 2014 Bakken wells will be lower bench Three Forks versus Three Forks 1 and Middle Bakken? I was going to say right now we're probably in that range of 030 35 right now.
We're probably be in these lower benches.
It varies as the year goes on here as we adjust some of the program but -- and will be adjusted on the results.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That will be 30 to 35 net wells? Pardon? Net or gross? LLC</strong> Will that be a net or gross? That will be a gross.
Well count is about 24 net I think is where we end up.
Our next question is from Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> I want to start with more of a broad question about the Williston overall.
And I've been hearing some producers talk about what the actual trajectory of the basin's production growth is going to be.
I think that -- thinking was that there'd be a very steep rise to a peak production level maybe later in the decade.
But I've heard some people say that just as you mentioned the infrastructure has caught up in the play.
Sort of where do you see the peak? And is it possible that it might be sort of a more gradual peak with a longer plateau instead of sort of us continuing at this sort of break-neck pace we've had for the basin? Well I think our projection is the same as it was.
Our projection was that we saw a rise after about 2 million barrels a day overall.
And I think we're sticking with that.
We've seen kind of leveling off and even a little drop if you will in rig count up there.
North Dakota we had locked 171 rigs last time I looked at it.
And we think that that's because the HBP acreage most of it's HBP-ed.
Operators are going to slack down a little bit.
Winter weather of course had some effect this year with people that had been up there too long.
So I think it may be a little bit more gradual as we see proppants build out and things like that.
But it's a very measured approach that's going on by operators up there.
We've taken that approach.
People are following our lead and we think it's the responsible thing to do.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I wanted to ask about in the pads after the Hawkinson the Rollefstad and the Wahpeton and the drilling.
I remember with the Hawkinson you had a faster-than-planned cycle time in the drilling and I wondered if you'd seen those same pace continue on with the newer pads and just what that might look like going forward.
Yes.
We did see cycle times really attractive cycle times on all 3 of the pads and it's a little bit of a shame that we've got a little bit of the weather impact.
We're not making excuses getting out of those completed proton.
But certainly from a cost perspective it's very impactful.
And the reason it's impactful is when you really start looking at as Rick and Jack and Harold all have alluded to in the lower benches is -- you're seeing the ability to go in and harvest this oil at a very attractive economic picture.
For instance we've looked at some of the Lower Three Forks and the TF3 on the Hawkinson.
And even though 2 of the wells are still under the 603 model as we suggested in our earnings release we still have seen economics on those 3 wells that suggest 35% to 40% rate of returns and that's very attractive to start looking at a $7.5-million well cost from a pad.
And so we see the cycle times continuing you see it really across the board.
We don't talk much about our outside operated activity but we see it with some other operators' well which helps us because it drives those costs down.
And the outside operated have purpose sees as well.
So I think what you're going to see is continued economic enhancements over the next 3 to 4 years without any doubt.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys I just have a follow-up regarding your oil price realizations.
Just kind of looking at the fourth quarter of 2013 it looks like your oil price realizations were down roughly $13.50 by my math here.
And just kind of looking at some of the benchmark pricing I'm seeing that Brent was down roughly $1 from 3Q to 4Q and LLS was down by $9 and WTI was down about $8.50.
But I guess your realization was kind of down more I was just looking for maybe some color around that if you guys had any.
Leo this is Jeff Hume.
Several things happened that put pressure on us in the fourth quarter one was the widening refinery changing from sweet crude to Canadian bitumen around 200 000 barrels a day of light sweet market went out of the pipeline delivered market.
And so it's putting more pressure on the rail.
The good news this quarter we're opening up more pipeline spaces line and Bridgeline 9 opens up to the Great Lakes refinery sector putting more out there.
We have the Keystone South working thus we're leaving cushing allowing more oil to flow down into the cushing area.
And refineries are coming back on.
We had some early turnarounds due to a couple of fires up in the Rocky the Northern Great Plains region and then up in Minnesota so they did some early turnarounds.
All of that hit together and at the same time Syncrude units were running at capacity in Canada.
So there's a lot of oil showed up and at the same time we had some restrictions that occurred most of them were unplanned a couple of them were planned and so a full shock in the system but that's being taken care of.
As Harold said we have the Pony express pipeline that's going to be coming on taking around 210 000 barrels a day out of the basin starting in the third quarter.
Will give us more relief.
And we're seeing an improved rail service up there.
So opening more and more markets and most of that is from unloading side of the rail it's not loading at the basin it's unloading at the refineries we're seeing improved infrastructure built out there.
So I think we'll see smoother we're seeing the rail compete more with the local crude pricing.
And so I think thing's are going to be picking for us and that's -- so we've put the guidance set that we have and we think we can hit that.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's great color.
I guess as with respect to that obviously you've got a bit of a range on your differentials in your guidance.
I mean obviously market conditions are hard to predict but all things being equal would you expect to see improving realization as we get maybe later in the year as some of these pipes come on and then maybe some further improvement potentially in '15? I do.
I think the continued -- just looking out in front of us I think we should be seeing continued improvement.
We're working on several fronts as all the operators out there.
One is the quality of our crude that words are getting out that it's high quality in value.
I think we'll start seeing improved competition for our crude at the other end of the line as we get more pipeline south that's going to lower cost and bring on competition a little more competition for that crude.
Transportation cost will eventually work down as you build out that infrastructure so I agree.
Our next question comes from Andrew Coleman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the Hawkinson pad wells and the subsequent ones I guess how much improvement have you all seen I guess in terms of start to finish times from site preparations to tying in the wells? And how should I extrapolate that I guess into my NAV model going forward? Good question Andrew.
What we have seen is we've seen in the Hawkinson for instance we saw about a 10% improvement over what we had modeled.
The cycle time being from start to finish and that was with some complex microseismic we had a lot of things along the way that we did there that -- but so I think that what you can look at is site preparation is really not an issue.
We've got that pretty well done ahead of time and then we start looking at just actual cycle times on the big pads big pads being greater than 8 wells per pad.
We're looking at about a 20-day to 22-day average on those from spud to rig release to the next well.
And then in some cases and it depends on the pads we can do some simultaneous operation.
So we're doing everything we can to accelerate that for a couple of reasons and obviously to bring out production on but also to accelerate our understanding.
So we can probably provide a little more color later on as we get into it.
Some of these will be sites-specific.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so then thinking about I guess you're going to get average as 22 rigs this year so maybe another -- as Ears Back kind of gets there and gets more data probably about the fall maybe we'll have some view by then on the in terms how rig count might stabilize and start declining as you ratchet up the activity? Yes that's correct.
Right now for instance in antelope we're at 3 rigs today we'll have a fourth rig probably within the next 4 to 5 weeks.
A fifth rig in the second quarter.
And hopefully a sixth rig in the third quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you anticipate -- as you test the 20% wells made bigger fracs are there sort of science work that you would see any I guess leakage in terms of time? The other way as you change the ultimate completions style? Or anything you really get in that window? No I think we can.
If you look at some of the larger especially the slick water fracs it just takes a little more preplanning upfront but we've got a team that's doing that.
We're rolling it right now with 8 stimulation crews.
And so we've got the operating capabilities to handle that plan effectively source it.
And so I don't think you're going to see much slippage on time.
We will execute.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then last question I had puds in the reserves report I guess were approaching 60% I think by year end.
I guess how much higher can you see that going? And I guess does that point you toward a minimum sort of well count to kind of stay up on that wave as you continue exploring the resource up in the Bakken? Well if you look at the total puds if you look at Continental across the company in the Bakken we've got just over about one in the third or so puds producing that well and SCOOP worth about 2 puds per producing well.
And so we've got in both of the plays we've got obviously a lot of resource there that we can book in the future.
But obviously one of the things that comes into play is what you can get done in a 5-year period.
We got -- and that's something that we'll obviously always be addressing.
But I do think that what you're going to see is with increased reserve booking out of per well basis across our company you're going to see continued growth and I think it that we're going to be in really really good shape to meet our 5-year plan.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
Harold Hamm for closing remarks.
Thanks Vanessa.
Again I'd like to thank everybody for joining us today on this conference call.
Continental delivered another very strong year in 2013 and we look forward to record achievements again next year.
By the way you may have noticed 2 new titles in introduction today and I'll address those.
Along with a number of other promotions here in the company last week.
We have a John Kilgallon to the leadership role in Investor Relations.
Warren Henry takes on a new challenge as VP of Research and Policy.
He'll remain heavily involved of course with IR but he will also support public relations governmental affairs and executive group with research and proposals for addressing state and federal issues such as transportation exports regulation and others that impact Continental's growth strategy.
It's just a great fit for Warren's background and John has proven he's already detective range in IR.
I know our investors have very strong relationships with both Warren and John so please feel free to call either them with your questions.
They'll continue working together closely.
That completes our call today.
Thanks again and we look forward to speaking with you again in early May.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Continental Resources First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I now would like to turn the call over to John Kilgallon Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Brandon and good morning.
And welcome to the Continental First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today with prepared remarks will be: Harold Hamm Founder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rick Bott President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also during the call we'll have a Q&amp;A session and other members of management who will be joining us: Jeff Hume Vice Chairman of Strategic Growth Initiatives; Jack Stark Senior Vice President of Exploration; Gary Gould Senior Vice President of Operations and Resource Development; and Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land.
In conjunction with the earnings press release and our call this morning we have posted a summary presentation that can be found on our website at clr.com underneath the Investor Relations section under Presentations.
It's also available within the webcast portal for your quick ease.
Today's call will include forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the SEC for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Also in today's call we may refer to EBITDAX cash margin adjusted net income per diluted share.
For a reconciliation of EBITDAX to GAAP net income and operating cash flows and a description of the calculation of cash margin and a reconciliation of adjusted net income per diluted share to GAAP net income per diluted share please refer to the presentation materials I mentioned earlier that can be found on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us on our call today.
Continental's first quarter of 2014 was characterized by strong financial results solid execution in operations and the achievement of several significant milestones in our exploration programs in the Bakken and SCOOP plays.
Continental generated EBITDAX of $775 million in the first quarter of 2014 benefiting from solid production growth strong oil prices and strengthening natural gas prices.
The Continental team did a great job managing the operating cost during the quarter.
And we expect continued solid performance throughout the year.
Our CFO John Hart will provide further detail on our financial results.
I just want to congratulate the teams on their outstanding discipline and execution focus this last quarter.
We increased first quarter production 25% over the same quarter last year.
During the first we experienced production interruptions and rail transportation delays due to weather at various times in the quarter.
I assure you we're almost done talking about North Dakota weather.
Now that temperatures are finally climbing with the spring thaw trucks are running with reduced load restrictions in several counties in Northwest North Dakota.
We anticipate much better operating conditions in the next several weeks.
We're ready to shift into high gear.
As we noted in the press release our annual guidance of 26% to 32% production growth remains in place.
As you saw on our press release we had plenty of downspacing news to announce.
Our first test the Hawkinson is still producing very strongly.
The Rollefstad had very impressive early initial rates led by enhanced completion designs.
And while the Tangsrud wasn't as big as we had hoped the project was designed as a step-out to the North to further test the Lower Three Forks as well as 1 320-foot spacing.
Looking to the remainder of the year you should expect solid production results in the second quarter with growth accelerating in the second half as we get the full benefit of these multi-well density drilling pilots and as we bring additional density pilots and projects online.
Next SCOOP production should continue to accelerate.
We continue to expand the play through exploration held by production up on our acreage with our increased rig count.
Finally we will remain focused on spending discipline in both CapEx and operating expenses and strong EBITDAX growth.
2014 is shaping up to be an excellent year.
Just before turning the call to Rick I'd like to welcome Gary Gould to the call on his new role as Senior Vice President of Operations and Resource Development.
As we announced last week Gary is stepping up to a great opportunity and has already established himself as a valued member of the leadership team here at Continental.
Welcome to the table Gary.
Thank you.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Rick Bott.
Rick? Thanks Harold.
First of all we apologize to the audience I've got a bit of a cold.
So if my voice sounds under the weather it's because I am.
So I'll start with the Bakken.
Operating results in the Bakken were solid for the first quarter with 4% growth quarter-over-quarter and a 27% year-over-year growth in total production to roughly 97 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As Harold and other companies have mentioned we've battled the weather since the beginning of the year but we're getting past that.
Our drilled but not producing inventory is currently at 100 wells down from February but still higher than our normal.
We hope to work down the bulk of the excess during the second quarter and we have 8 completion crews working to accomplish this.
Let's now talk about the 3 density tests that we've completed all of which are on 1 320-foot spacings between wells within zones and including 4 zones: the Middle Bakken TF1 TF2 and TF3.
In the slide pack that John mentioned if you want to see a graphic representation of each of these pilots please refer to Slide 6 7 and 8.
First the Hawkinson.
After 150 days of production we're exceptionally pleased with the overall unit production in the Hawkinson density test.
Production remains strong and the wells are maintaining their trends.
As we expected when some of the wells were put on pump production normalized.
Notably half of the 14 wells in the unit are still flowing on natural pressure including 1 of the original legacy wells which shows just how prolific this area is.
We continue to believe the Hawkinson will be an important template for our future density test and ultimately fulfill field development in the Bakken.
Next the Rollefstad density test at McKenzie County let's talk about that.
In that we had 3 legacy wells and 8 new wells in this test.
The location is in our Antelope field and was selected as kind of a kickoff for our Ears Back program in Antelope.
Rollefstad was completing using enhanced completion methods notably 2x the proppant in 7 of the wells and 3x the proppant in the eighth well.
The IPs for these wells range from 1 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day to as high as 4 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Given our belief that these wells would have very strong initial rates we conducted the initial test in a high-volume vessel in order to see what these wells could really do if not limited by infrastructure or facilities.
I mention this because Continental's philosophy typically is to standardize our completion in facilities.
However given the day that we have seen from our initial test and from competitors we felt this was a unique opportunity to allow the wells to flow normally at maximum rates.
As a reminder this test is in our Antelope area which includes currently 4 rigs today and is planned for 6 rigs by the year end.
Finally the Tangsrud density test in Divide County.
I think it's important to characterize the Tangsrud density test as a true step-out not for the Middle Bakken and TF1 which are productive in this area but for the second and third benches of the Three Forks.
It's outside of 3 800 square mile area of the productive footprint that we established with our exploration program yesterday and we've shown you in the past -- or last year and we've shown you in the past.
We were trying to extend the lower TF productive footprint to the North.
And based on the results we've got some work to do.
These wells were all completing using our standard well completion design with 30 stages and approximately 100 000 pounds of proppant per stage.
The new Middle Bakken and TF1 wells in the Tangsrud unit are similar to existing wells in the area which have lower initial rates but flatter declines.
Future deeper bench development in this area will be assessed based on economic returns any ideas that come out of our completion design test and commodity prices at the time.
The other key headline in the first quarter involves our enhanced completion testing program.
Last year we told you we are embarking on a large program to test a number of completion designs totaling 20% of our wells in the Bakken.
We planned a pragmatic approach in several areas to test these new designs and in order to maximize returns.
If you refer to Slide 9 of our supplemental slide pack on our website where we gave early results from 1 of these designs using slick water completions from 2 wells in Williams County both wells are trending well above our standard expectation for completion in that area consistent with what other companies have reported on this particular technique.
We are continuing to test and evaluate other designs primarily involving higher volumes in different types of proppant different fluid types and different stage lengths.
Let me put this testing in context.
As we indicated this is a programmed approach and therefore we want to build a statistical database with adequate production history.
Our goal ultimately is to combine our completion design tests with our downspacing pilot results to maximize recoveries accelerate production and then thus drive higher-realized returns and greater net present value.
Therefore these tests will be important elements as we move forward into full-field development.
Although we are early in our program we are encouraged by the uplift that we and other operators are experiencing.
The impact of these efforts has potential to add significant upside to the field.
Now switching South to SCOOP.
SCOOP production continues to grow up 24% sequentially and 106% year-over-year.
We had the opportunity to high-grade part of our rig fleet in the first quarter and have done that bringing in high-caliber rigs to drill this complex play and support our increasing desire to drill more extended laterals.
For the quarter about half of our wells were drilled in the condensate window and half in the oil window.
Referring to Slide 10 in our presentation we highlighted 2 first quarter liquids-rich wells that IP-ed over 1 600 million cubic feet of equivalent a day and a third strong well in the oil window.
The first quarter wells -- take all the wells in the first quarter and the oil window had an average IP of about 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day and all the wells in the condensate window averaged about 1 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
So as you can see the exploration program continues to be successful.
In summary the things to watch at Continental for the remainder of the year are: firstly in SCOOP we'll continue to explore an HBP with a larger percentage of our cross-unit laterals -- our wells drilling cross-unit wells as well as starting a few spacing tests and a downspacing pilot; in the Bakken we have 4 more density pilots as well as a large program to test completion designs that should be important data to guide full-field development; the Ears Back program in Antelope is underway targeting the Middle Bakken first bench second bench and third bench.
We'll have a lot to talk about at our Analyst Day in September that Harold mentioned to you last quarter.
Now let me turn it over to John to discuss our financials.
Thanks Rick.
2014 is off to a good start setting the base for achievement of our annual goals.
During the first quarter we maintained capital discipline with CapEx slightly in excess of $1 billion.
This is in line with our expectations and supportive of our annual budget of $4.05 billion in nonacquisition CapEx for 2014.
Harold talked about our first quarter production.
Our guidance for production growth remains 26% to 32% for 2014.
Supporting our expectations are the growth in our inventory of wells awaiting completion which will begin providing incremental production as they are completed in the second and third quarters.
Accelerating growth should also result from our ongoing capital plans in the Bakken and SCOOP.
As noted in our release our sales volumes were less than production during the quarter due to an incremental inventory build of 363 000 barrels.
While this impacted the first quarter earnings per share negatively and largely accounts for the differences with consensus estimates these volumes will positively benefit future periods as they are sold.
Future sale of these volumes will help to offset incremental pipeline fill that we expect through the remainder of the year.
We anticipate this projected line fill could impact earnings per share by 5% to 10% over the remainder of the year -- $0.05 to $0.10 over the remainder of the year.
We note that inventory build and draws are a positive reflection of the infrastructure build-out of the Bakken.
The average oil differential for the first quarter was a discount of $8.98 per barrel versus the NYMEX daily average.
And the average realized gas differential was a premium of $2.14 per Mcf.
Our realized oil differential was towards the low end of our annual guidance of $8 to $11 per barrel while our gas differential was positively above our guidance of a premium of $1 to $1.50.
The strong differential performance was reflective of the productivity of our marketing efforts and the quality of the crude oil and rich natural gas we produce.
Our other financial metrics LOE G&amp;A and DD&amp;A to be specific are in line with our expectations for the first quarter.
We expect DD&amp;A will positively benefit from incremental SCOOP and higher-productivity Bakken oils as we move throughout the balance of the year.
We expect these will provide a positive trend in DD&amp;A.
Year-to-date commodity prices have remained strong.
This has provided us the opportunity to continue layering in hedges to support our capital plans and cash flow needs for 2014 and into 2015.
We will continue to layer in hedges as market opportunities allow consistent with our long-term philosophy.
We anticipate 2014 will be a strong year for Continental as we move forward in the growth and expansion of the company not only in the execution of our current 5-year plan but also with a view towards the development of our multi-decade asset base.
Continental is well positioned in repeatable low-risk oily resource plays which generates industry-leading cash margins for our company.
The first quarter is consistent with this trend and positions us to build on that success in the balance of 2014.
With that operator we're now ready to turn back over for any Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And from Bank of America Merrill Lynch we have Doug Leggate on line.
Research Division</strong> I guess the cost of the -- you described yourself as a fast follower in terms of stepping up the intensity of the completions but the costs obviously is a little bit higher.
So what I'm trying to understand is the results early as they may be have been confirmed across the industry not just for Continental.
So how do you see yourself allocating capital as it relates to more aggressive on the fracs as opposed to the number of wells that you drill? And I've got a follow-up please.
Sure Doug.
Let me take that and I'll see if Gary has anything to add to it.
Yes we are anticipating continued success from our teams in driving overall well costs down in the Bakken to achieve the goal that we talked about for 2014.
And we're also seeing some positive signs in the supply chain for those additional completion designs.
So we're anticipating that -- we're hopeful and optimistic that that cost savings will be applied to this testing program and into designing a new -- any new designs that come out of that.
And of course for us the most important thing is that whatever we decide to do that we apply what you've seen us do over the past several years.
And we make sure that that is scalable and we're able to drive down cost.
Research Division</strong> And that really -- go ahead Gary sorry.
Well I was just going to say I think in any play there's a natural time when you move from HBP to development drilling where teams start looking together and working together to determine what the optimum density is and what the optimum completions are.
And of course the bottom line is the incremental economics associated with that.
And so what we've done is we've established some multidisciplined teams made up of geologists and completion engineers and resource development engineers.
And they're working together to try to figure out what is optimum for each area.
And that's going to vary area-by-area and possibly bench-by-bench.
And so we have lots of good people working on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate those answers.
I guess my follow-up is kind of related Rick.
I mean what do you guys need to see to declare victory on the change in the completion design? And again I'm really basing this on the fact that a number of your competitors have kind of already done that and not similar areas to where you guys are operating so I'll leave it there.
Great question Doug.
I mean I think as I said we're taking a programmed approach.
We see quite a lot of uplift from us in the industry with a whole number of techniques.
So we've tried a lot of things and almost everything has been successful.
So as Gary sort of alluded to there we think that we're going to go about testing this based on the particular area and the particular geology in that area and try to figure out what we think is optimal to be able to ultimately drive down cost in that given area and then across the field.
So I think that's perhaps the difference is that our footprint is probably the largest in the play.
And I think that we've got 1.2 million acres out there.
So what we do we want to make sure it's applicable as Gary said apples-to-apples in an area and then that we're able to expand that and leverage that across the play.
From Goldman Sachs we have Brian Singer on line.
Research Division</strong> First on SCOOP you talked about a few wells here where you gave 1-day rates.
It may be too early but could you characterize how the 30-day performance is looking or how your expectations for the 3 wells that you mentioned relative to your type curve and give any more color with regards to what you're looking for in your spacing and tests and density pilot? Well I'd say that we are really pleased with the outcomes and these wells are holding up very nicely.
And these are some of the best IPs we've seen in the play these couple of gas wells -- I mean the 2 condensate window wells.
And so really we're assessing these results and saying if that is going to make us if we're going to move our type curve up.
But at this point right now we're sticking with where we're at and plan on having more discussion about that when we get to our investor conference here in September.
Let me add to that Brian.
I mean I think the key takeaway for you is the production growth is up 26% quarter-on-quarter.
Almost all the wells in the play are holding up very very nicely.
These are just some good strong areas -- these are good wells in an area.
They're close together so it's a strong area.
But it's a large acreage position we've built and so there's a lot of exploration ahead of us.
And as you see with lots of programs of this type you'll have some areas that work real well and others that don't work so well.
So as we told you all along we're going to continue to explore this type of play and then we follow on right quickly behind it trying to HBP our acreage.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up goes to the Bakken.
I'm trying to just further hone in on how you're thinking about the variability in performance or expectations between the Three Forks 2 3 versus the Middle Bakken Three Forks 1.
Just looking at some of the numbers that you talked about on the Tangsrud and the Hawkinson.
On the Tangsrud you talked about a 50% haircut or so it looks like in just the rates the 285 from the Three Forks 2 and the Three Forks 3 versus the 670 from the Middle Bakken and Three Forks 1.
In the Hawkinson pad you talk about 13 of the 14 wells producing 50% above the type curve.
I want to see if you could characterize a bit more of the variability you're seeing between the zones and how that impacts your thought process on relative EURs? Well I think I'm going to let Jack supplement here.
But let me pick up Tangsrud.
Tangsrud was an attempt to extend the footprint of the deeper benches.
It's a good area.
We've got lots of offset wells from Middle Bakken and TF1 so that wasn't a big step-out.
But with TF2 and TF3 that was a step-out to see if we could establish commercial production.
The wells didn't work very well there.
So as I said we've got some planning.
And ultimately we may have a different -- we still may drill in that area in the TF2 and TF3 but it may not be with as many wells per zone.
We'll have to go back and figure that out for that area.
The Rollefstad and Hawkinson areas were very strong in all the benches.
And so those are further into the basin there's more pressure there there's thicker interval.
And so we're quite pleased with the results of the second and the third bench.
And as we've talked about in Antelope we will be developing full-field development on the 1 320 feet spacing for those deeper benches.
And that's kind of in and around that Rollefstad area.
Jack do you have anything to add to that or Gary? No that sounds good.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And there was no variability between what we see in the Three Forks 2 3 of the 13 to 14 wells...
Yes.
There's always variability by wells.
There's a little bit of variability.
But it's sort of characterized within that statistical average that we told you about.
I mean there's nothing dramatically different about those.
No in fact we have a slide.
Slide #7 just shows for example the Rollefstad.
You can see the comparison Middle Bakken and TF1 to the TF2 and TF3 just based on initial rates there.
And that's early days.
Yes.
They're very early.
And you can see they're very very close.
So we're not really seeing a significant difference there at least in the Rollefstad area there.
From RBC we have Leo Mariani on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the Rollefstad here.
You guys kind of mentioned these are sort of I think IP rates.
I mean how long has this actually been producing here from these different wells? They've been producing just in the range of about 30 days.
And so what we've seen is some very good initial completions.
And we're excited about where they are.
And they're all still flowing right now.
So that's a good sign and look forward to watching them as they continue on their trends.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the rates that you guys provided as IPs these are just 24-hour rates I'm assuming? Yes that's correct.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess could you guys share any of the longer-term data like the 7-day rates or the 30-day rates? Have you got that available? I don't have those available but we can get those to you later.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess you guys talked about production downtime in first quarter and things came back on track in the Bakken in a number of weeks here.
Could you guys quantify what the production downtime was in 1Q and maybe give us a sense of how things have improved maybe what current production is? I don't know if there's any production downtime.
I think it's just -- it is the pace of the completion crews completing new wells.
And basically if you talk about drilling we had 0 downtime on any rig.
All rigs kept running and kept drilling which as we talked about on our last call built an inventory and that inventory sort of peaked in February as we could not move trucks couldn't move water and things like that because of the extremely cold conditions January February March.
So that is -- and that's what I talked about.
Now we've added back 3 additional crews so we're at 8 crews now.
And that has essentially allowed us to work that inventory down and we'll continue to work that inventory down.
As we always talk about the spring time has the thaw restrictions in several counties.
We're starting to see that as Harold mentioned so that essentially sort of delays that ramp-up when you can get those frac crews back to working.
And so that's primarily the -- there's been no real production downtime.
In a couple areas you may have to shut-in a few wells because of frozen valves and things like that.
But it's really Leo pretty much a small factor.
I think Jeff talked about last quarter occasionally we'll have delays in railcars showing up.
And so that would mean that we're potentially at risk of shutting in production.
But that's -- some of the tanks that we've just talked about building is exactly to manage that type of issue where we can keep producing to those tanks and then sell it in future quarters if we have any crude logistic issues.
So we're building that.
We talked about a portfolio approach to our marketing.
We're building that and the infrastructure supports that portfolio approach.
So I hope that characterizes kind of the various elements of the weather slowdown that we've seen in North Dakota.
LLC Research Division</strong> No I think that's helpful.
So I mean I guess should I interpret that to mean that you'll get more of a production bump in the Bakken in 2Q and then it further accelerates in the second half? Yes.
That's exactly what Harold has outlined exactly right.
And that's what gave us confidence Leo to basically say we're still on target to hit our overall yearly production targets.
And remember we don't guide quarter-to-quarter we only guide year-to-year.
And we're in the second year of our 5-year plan and we're well ahead of our 5-year plan.
From JPMorgan we have Joe Allman on line.
Research Division</strong> So looking at the Rollefstad pilot and comparing that to the Hawkinson how much of the improvement in production is geography? And how much do you think is the completion technique? I think that's going to be a little bit hard to characterize at this point because we are early.
Certainly both areas are very good areas for us.
In general in the Rollefstad area we see very high ranges of EUR.
So we also see that in the Hawkinson area also.
So they're both good areas.
As we would expect when we frac-ed with a larger design with a 200 000 pounds of proppant per stage and the 300 000 pounds we saw higher results.
And so that encourages us on the completion technique side.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then in the SCOOP are you trying any of the new completion designs there? And if so have you seen any results and what do those results look like? We're trying a few things in SCOOP but they're not big material-type things.
The SCOOP fracs in general are already essentially 3x the Bakken.
They are a slick water frac so we're already doing that on a routine basis in those areas.
More of the things we're doing are trying to optimize the drilling and completion and integration of that as we drill in more complex areas and with higher pressure.
So that's the story in SCOOP.
And we'll see -- we anticipate that we'll have future uplifts as we sort of get through this exploration phase and then start in focusing on optimizing as Gary talked about the evolution of the play in the Bakken the SCOOP will follow behind that.
From Heikkinen Energy we have Marshall Carver on line.
LLC</strong> You usually give a current production rate on your conference calls.
Do you have that for your company for right now? Currently we're between 155 000 and 160 000 a day.
You have variability at any given time but we're right in that range.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And one other question how much of your loss in acreage the 1.2 million acres would you say has been condemned or is unlikely to be developed in the Three Forks 2 and Three Forks 3? Marshall I think it's really too early to talk about that.
I mean there's only -- I'm going to let Jack comment on that.
But I think what we've said is there's a program here to try to determine the commercial productivity in those intervals.
We know there's oil we know there's good rock in that oil.
It's just a question of whether or not you can get it out at commercial rates.
We've outlined a 3 800 square mile productive footprint and we drilled about 25 exploration wells in those deeper benches last year.
This year we'll have about the same number and that's more going in and trying to confirm area by area.
So I think it's really pretty early.
The Tangsrud was as I talked about trying to extend that see if we'd extend that.
And so that -- and we kind of drew a hard line but as you know the geologists like to have a fuzzy line there and so that line can move back-and-forth and so but we are optimistic that in these deeper benches where -- in the right part of the basin you have good pressure and good rock that is going to be a very significant contributor.
Let me let Jack comment.
Marshall this is Jack.
And yes that's a good question.
And we're obviously working towards that end but you got to keep in perspective of where we're at in the play right now with these lower benches in particular.
I mean there are 54 producers right now in the basin as a whole.
That's not even 1% of the wells that have been drilled to date.
And so -- we've got I guess another 68 up I've got it written down right here in progress right now.
So the data is building but it's way too early to be able to do the things that be able to sit and really categorize our acreage at this point.
But that's exactly what our exploration program is designed to do and others are doing it as well.
We're seeing them also targeting second third benches of the Three Forks.
And so in the next 12 months we're going to see a lot of data build that's going to help us get down that road.
But I can reiterate what we have said before Marshall if this helps you I hope this is helpful.
Within that 3 800-square-mile footprint we have said we believe there will be at least 1 deeper bench productive i.e.
one of either 2 or 3 in some of that area you'll have both of those deeper benches productive.
And then in some -- maybe in some sweet spots you might find the TF4 productive but it won't necessarily be -- it will be a sweet spot-only type thing.
So that's the kind of guidance we've given before within that 3 800 square mile area and that if you want to refer to our slide on the website currently it's Slide 5 in that.
And I'll just add on to that this is Rick because it's an important point.
But we're seeing -- let's not lose sight of what's actually happening here.
Right now evidence is building that supports not only 320-foot inter-well spacing I mean -- and people are even working it tighter but we're also seeing evidence not just from Continental's work but from others' work that the lower benches are contributing and that -- we've got a much broader footprint that's evolving now with these density tests.
And so right now our density test from the South to the North is about 100 miles between the one in the South and the one in North and it's about 30 miles between the East and West.
And when you combine everyone else's in there we're really -- I'm real encouraged of what we're seeing from a results of the test in these density projects that are going on right now results from these lower benches.
From Simmons &amp; Company we have Pearce Hammond online.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on Brian Singer's question from earlier.
But given the better IP rates from these new completion techniques and strong results from Rollefstad and Hawkinson but also taking into consideration Tangsrud do you still believe the 603 000 Boe EURs is appropriate across the basin for the Middle Bakken and the benches of the Three Forks? Well Pearce I appreciate the question that's a good question.
We -- I mean the database for us as we talked about on these new completions is really very sparse even on a industry basis and there's a lot of options out there that people have been testing and a lot of those have been successful.
So I would say that -- but they haven't had a long production history.
So if you're going to change an EUR model you really need to be able to understand that you can look forward -- to have enough production history to look forward and be able to predict what that decline curve is going to do.
And so I think it's probably a little bit early time for us to think about adjusting that EUR model and we've got approaching 10 000 wells in the basin that we have access to in the database and then of course all our operated non-operated wells.
We probably have the largest database there and we don't see any real reason yet to move our 603 model but let me remind you 603 model is for North Dakota.
We have a 430 model in Montana because it's a bit shallower and a little bit less pressure but of course cheaper to drill.
So we've kind of -- I guess at this point we don't really see any reason to move that.
The completion designs if anything probably increase your MVB [ph] because you're getting that oil back faster.
And so that's the real benefit of continuing to pursue this testing program.
But it's probably way too early to say whether or not that EUR moves at least for the data set we've seen.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up is just a housekeeping item.
But in Q1 it looked like DD&amp;A ticked up a little bit.
What was behind that? It's actually down a little bit.
It's just the focus of where we drilled last year.
If you look to the fourth quarter you would have seen that it went up a bit as we were testing some of the fringe areas in the Upper Bakken Shale and some areas and some other concepts.
We saw a little bit of a tick up in DD&amp;A.
As we indicated on the call we expect that to trend down throughout the balance of the year with our focus on SCOOP and higher productivity areas in the Bakken.
From Morgan Stanley we have Drew Venker online.
Research Division</strong> And just going back to the Rollefstad pad.
The higher initial rates on the bigger proppant volumes give you confidence to create more wells with much greater proppant volumes? And have you seen that initial improvement sustained over the early production history you've seen I guess roughly double the rate in most of your wells? Well as Gary said we've only got 15 to 30 days production on that so it's probably a little bit too early to tell.
In terms of whether or not we're going to do more yes we are.
As we said we've got a 60-well program out there in 20% of our completions and we're looking at whether or not we will upsize that based on the particular testing methodologies that seem to work in a given area.
So I think the point is we have a big program there it's just very early days for us to say what any additional results are.
We just think the results that we had from the slick water compared to some of the end combining with some of the other results industry has put out there that the industry is testing a number of these things and that is going to be significant and impactful for the basin.
Research Division</strong> So was this performance uplift due to the higher proppant volumes a surprise to you? It's -- maybe I'm remembering it correctly but I thought you had tasted much bigger proppant volumes in the past prior to this year.
So is this uplift meaningfully different from what you had seen in prior tests? We're pleased.
These were some of our first large proppant amounts that we tasted.
And so it was not a surprise for us that's why we went out and got a larger vessel to test them through.
So we were expecting these type of significant results.
From Howard Weil we have Brian Corales online.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of a follow-up to similar type question.
I mean what's the main different in costs? Is it just more proppant and more horsepower or is this something that the incremental cost could be decreased going forward? The main cost for the incremental horsepower like you said the incremental water and then also the incremental proppant.
So those are 3 largest drivers.
And certainly there's additional cost efficiencies that we can see part of it will come from doing pad completions along with the pad drilling and then part of it will be just continue to optimize as we continue to test various -- different methodologies.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the SCOOP.
You all talked about doing some sort of density pilot I'm assuming just aerially.
Are there multiple zones that you all plan to test in the SCOOP play? I think it's a pretty thick section so is that part of the test you'll be doing this year or is that down the road? Well good call Brian.
Actually as we talked about the Woodford -- this is the Woodford interval where we'll do a spacing test.
It's a very thick.
Again it will be up to 400 feet thick and it has got 2 sort of main zones in it but it's all within -- we call it within the Woodford Shale.
And so that is one things we'll be looking at it's how you optimize and where you place the wells in that pilot.
We've talked about a pilot when we first enrolled our 2014 program but the team is still working on what that design will look like.
So I'm going to let them finish their work before we sort of characterize it for you.
From Ladenburg Thalmann we have Noel Parks online.
Research Division</strong> As you begin to accumulate a bit more data on the Lower Three Forks I was wondering do you have a sense at this point that you might have areas of the play where the completion -- well the ideal completion method could vary substantially between the Middle Bakken and maybe the deepest Three Forks that works? We are working on that you're exactly right.
And I think Gary alluded to that in his previous comment that the completion design may vary by zone and it will certainly vary by area -- it may vary by area say it that way.
Research Division</strong> And so even within a particular pad for instance you might be I don't know slick water frac in one formation and something different in another? Yes that's a possibility.
I don't want to rule that out let me say it that way.
Research Division</strong> Sure sure fair enough.
And could you -- I'm sorry if this was touched on earlier I did get on a little late.
Could you talk a little bit about gas takeaway in the SCOOP just how the status of the infrastructure build-out is in the various parts of the play? No we have very good gas takeaway out of the SCOOP.
There's several proposed pipelines to move gas to the Southeast that will be coming on if built and I'm sure they will because they're getting a lot of interest from the industry.
So it should stay ahead of our growth rate that we've got projected.
We as a company have secured ample takeaway capacity to move out of the basin as well as furnish gas to our intrastate market that we've developed.
And so we feel real well on keeping up with our growth as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify so to sort of what horizon of looking forward would you say you're pretty much set where the capacity is committed and -- there are you good for sure through '15 for instance? Yes yes.
We're real solid through '15.
We'll be making decisions on other opportunities over the next 6 months to 1 year and new opportunities are coming in everyday.
I had a call this morning with another opportunity so lots of interest in building pipe out of Oklahoma as we continue to grow as an industry and a state.
And so I think we're going to be well ahead of it.
And as I said I'll reiterate Continental has already secured good space to get out of the state and should take us out through '15 easily.
From Capital One we have Phillips Johnston online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> You talked about how your completion design might vary by zone.
In terms of your completions on the Wahpeton unit and the 3 other 660 units later in the year are those planned for standard completion designs? Or are those -- are you planning on using enhanced completion techniques on any of the units like you did in the Rollefstad? It will be a variety.
We want to test a variety of different completion techniques in a variety of different areas and so that will be part of our analysis to test multiple different types of designs in those areas.
So yes.
We'll be testing some new ones yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you look at the 5 Tangsrud wells in both the Middle Bakken and Three Forks 1 as you mentioned those weren't step-outs given other wells you drilled in an area but how does the 670 IP rate for those 5 wells compare to other Middle Bakken and Three Forks 1 wells nearby in Divide County? And just as a follow-up what sort of EUR would you expect for those wells based on other nearby wells that have a longer production history? Nearby wells in that area tend to IP around 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
So it's pretty close to the range of what we're in.
And as far as the EURs it's just real early to be able to tell.
So we're just too early to be able to quantify that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess as of now there's really no sign that there's any communication between any of the 4 zones there right? No signs that we've seen at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up did the results of Tangsrud change your thinking at all in terms of how you're going to approach the Lawrence pilot? Well as far as our various tests we're just going to look at these results.
We're going to test multiple options and the Tangsrud we used more the standard design the classic design we're -- historically we've used 100 000 pounds per stage and so as we move forward we're going to test some of these new designs that have had better results.
From Raymond James we have Andrew Coleman online.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First can you just give us a little bit of color just refresh my memory on maybe the difference in the thickness of the shale kind of across those 3 different pilots the interbedded shales? And I guess if you can speak to -- if you've given any thought or you can give review on whether maybe it's pay thickness or water saturation kind of driving some of the performance if you're using the same fracs as you look at across those pilots? This is Jack and I was just going to say that Rollefstad and Hawkinson the thickness is -- I know you're asking specifically about the thickness between -- of shale between the Three Forks benches is that correct? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay it's pretty comparable then in an area.
I can't tell you exactly.
I'm going to say it's 25-foot thick just my best estimate right now.
But the distance between well bores is typically in that 65 foot range.
And so really I don't see a big difference there.
What was your other -- what was the second part of your question? Inc.
Research Division</strong> If you're using the same frac effectively methodology frac recipe I mean is it possible or have you seen in your core studies that there's any difference in water saturation or other data that might speak to some of the performance differences that you all saw between...? Sure yes.
We've said before we see the second bench looks very much like the first bench as far the dolomite development and the uniformity of it and the fact that saturation could be very similar in many of these areas to the TF1.
But the third bench as we've always said too it's a thicker zone.
It has more shale interbeds and as a result we're seeing -- I think we see lower permeability in there and I think we do also see a bit higher water saturation in it.
But that's irreducible water doesn't necessarily mean it's going to be producible.
So right now there are characteristic differences between them that we're working on to determine just how does that influence production and that's what this exploration program again is all about is.
We're trying to assess just exactly what you're saying here is how would these wells perform? But keep in mind these are all part of this Bakken petroleum system and that's what's key here is that we've defined that there are more oil in place.
And because of the oil in these lower benches and so we're assessing how do we incorporate this in the total development of these drilling and spacing units.
I mean just ride with us here and more information will come as we get more data and more wells drilled.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right good.
I guess the second question I had is obviously the Rollefstad wells were very nice.
And I guess how close is that to the Colter unit? I guess the Colter unit it looks like it's kind of between the Hawkinson and the Rollefstad pads and I guess if you saw some communication that the Colter I guess obviously those are different fracs and some different kinds of wells drilled but I guess give me a little bit of color on I guess how you underscore the confidence that I guess putting the bigger fracs in that area that has more natural fractures? I guess still works and I guess if that's a clear question sorry about that.
I'll start.
I think it's a good question as far as how will larger fracs affect areas with more natural fractures.
And I guess one thing I would say is the way we're viewing these fracs right now is that its incremental profit that helps connect natural fractures that's out there.
And so if you got an area of high productivity we think those have a great chance to be even more successful by just connecting up the natural fractures that are out there and keeping them propped.
And so we're very optimistic about doing the larger fracs in the better productivity areas.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So still -- it definitely sounds like a work in progress across the entire basin but you guys have good results there and we'll keep watching to see what comes out down the road.
From TPH we have Matt Portillo online.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up question.
I know that you guys had a number of pilots on stream in 2013 such as the Charlotte pad and some of the others testing kind of the second and third bench and I know there's been a quite a few questions on the call so far around this.
But just hoping to get an update as to how you guys are thinking about the productivity there with the data you've seen so far and just wanted to see how that compares to the first bench if that's still kind of holding to your trends? Charlotte bench can you answer that? I really can't tell you.
It's just right now off the top of my head.
I know that the wells are performing very nicely in the Charlotte.
We've been always very pleased with the outcomes that we've seen there both in all the benches.
And so quite frankly I just can't tell you right now.
But I can sure follow-up we can follow-up and get you the comparison there but they are strong wells.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just a second follow-up question in regards to the SCOOP.
I was wondering if you could provide maybe some context around how you think about the percentage of your acreage that you've de-risked so far? And then as you think about this large footprint and the relative economics of this play how should we think about the long-term kind of drilling potential here from kind of the 18 rigs today? How large of a program could this potentially become for you? Well let me answer the last question first.
It's a little bit too quick too soon to determine how big of a drilling program.
It all depends on the exploration results.
So I think it's probably kind of where we sit at the moment.
In terms of what we've de-risked I think we put out there that essentially it's kind of Northwest to Southeast but we've got about 100 110-mile play fairway where we're concentrating on the condensate and oil windows of this transition play.
And as we move South we're about 60 miles of that 100 miles so you might -- you could almost generalize that to 60% de-risk but that's a little bit over optimistic because we're still exploring in some of those areas because you have sub basins in there where you've got a little bit different complexity there and we're moving -- kind of we're moving East a little bit more into the oil window.
We've yet to test some of that.
So I'd say if I'm characterizing it we're in that 50% to 60% de-risked on the play but let me ask Jack if he would...
I agree that's my number as well and we're pushing it South.
From Wunderlich Securities we have Jason Wangler online.
Research Division</strong> Just had one quick question on the SCOOP.
Going to the spacing tests and the density pilot are those going to be started off as 1 mile wells or are you going to look to maybe extend your reach on those or maybe that to come down the line? As much as we can we're going to the 2-mile laterals.
From Jefferies we have Gabe Daoud online.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to the SCOOP.
It looks like the Green Acres well had a higher oil cut I guess than what the type curve indicates.
Just wondering if you anticipate the GUR increasing over time? And how does the Green Acre oil mix compare to the other completions in the other oil window during the quarter? Well the Green Acre well is the oil fairway so that's the first statement.
The second statement is we kind of put out in our general slide pack what the percentage of oil is in the oil window but that's an average.
So there's a range of oil cuts within that overall window and that's just the area with a high oil cut.
Jack you want to add to that? As far as GUR.
Yes GUR.
GUR increasing over time we're just going to have to watch.
There's going to be a variation throughout the play whether -- what gas there or oil.
So there'll be variations across that and we'll just watch the GURs to understand how it performs.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's helpful.
And that's black oil flowing in the oil window correct? We don't talk about condensate that's in -- we talk about condensate I can tell you that it's pretty transparent within that black oil.
From Macquarie we have Paul Grigel online.
Realizing you don't want to give quarterly guidance but could you speak just given the weather issues to the number of wells completed in the first quarter versus the expectations for the second and third quarter in the Bakken? Let's see if we've got it to hand we will.
Yes so for the first quarter for the Bakken we completed 70 wells.
And most of those were completed in the last part of the quarter in March.
And December last year we went from 6 frac crews to 8 and so the combination of the increased frac crews as well as the better weather that we expect as summer approaches in the North Dakota is going to help us complete more wells going forward.
Would it be fair to say in the 90 range would be a fair expectation? I don't have an exact number.
Okay.
Perfect.
Could you guys elaborate on the drivers of the productions versus sales issue as well if it has to do with filling Continental infrastructure and if this is kind of a more permanent requirement to have these barrels in storage almost like a working capital need going forward? Well the storage growth in the first quarter was due to the weather constraints and the increased stricter requirements on rail transport.
We're doing a lot more inspection on rail cars and the combination of that and -- so it had fewer unit trains running due to that plus weather constraints clogged up a lot of that traffic going to the East Coast and back due to the winter.
So when the trains didn't show up we put the oil in storage we kept the field 100% producing we had no -- 0 production curtailment from that end but we put the oil into storage.
That will come out this quarter.
Most of it will be out by the end of this month.
So we have that capacity and as we talked -- put in our press release we built increased storage that we totally control that compliments what we have that we have leased from at both the rail terminals and [indiscernible] so we have lots of space now that we can work with.
So weather interruption shouldn't hurt us at all on the marketing end of it so we'll absorb it maybe during -- just depends how it falls from month-to-month if it falls on a quarter end or not.
But we'll see that go up and down and we have that capacity to do that.
We can also work market a little bit that way also.
So we will as John spoke to we will be adding line fill.
There's more and more infrastructure being built out of the basin and to the extent that we're participating in that infrastructure we'll have obligatory line fill with that and that will breath.
It will be up and down.
It's not an exact number but it will be significant throughout the year because there's quite a bit of infrastructure coming in which is very good news.
And are those line fill barrels sold by Continental before they're in the pipe or is the third-party marketing company purchase those for the line fill? No they are Continental Resources barrels.
Okay.
And then last one if I could sneak it in.
On the Hawkinson down spacing test you mentioned it's 50% above the 603 type curve.
Could you compare that to other wells in the area on where their EURs are heading? It's pretty hard to do that but I think -- I mean that's a good area to start with but I think they are a little better than other wells in the area.
From DISCERN we have Gil Yang online.
Inc</strong> You said there is acceleration clearly in some of the results you had recently with the bigger fracs.
If there's no EUR benefit so just acceleration does that pay on an NPV return basis for the higher costs? Definitely.
Inc</strong> So you don't even need to see any EUR to make it worthwhile doing? Correct.
The rate of return on that is -- most of the ones that we've done is we've looked at some of the things we've had a little bit better results like the slick water and some of these larger prospects [ph] the rate of return is quite attractive.
I think we should let Gary maybe talk to the EURs here too.
I'm going to say one more thing.
Acceleration means different things different people.
I think one thing that Rick was talking about just accelerating and bringing forward the complete recovery within a unit to where we're developing in a quicker time.
As far as EUR performance and accelerating production from an offset well to a new well it's way too early in the data to be able to measure those things.
Those things take years to evaluate and we'll certainly be watching for those type of things.
Inc</strong> Okay.
So basically you're -- effectively your sort of -- that's an inconclusive at this point but the acceleration makes it worth doing at this point? Yes.
In other words regardless of the EURs in the well your rate of return and cash flow economics are really driven by what's produced in the first 6 or 7 wells.
So even if you were to have a significant acceleration component the significant rates we're seeing right now still results in very good well economics.
Inc</strong> Great great.
And for just sake of [indiscernible] if I could quickly.
For the Tangsrud well the Middle Bakken and Three Forks results were a little disappointing versus the existing wells.
Is there a -- do you have an explanation for that at this point? No I'd say that they are really not that out far off line at all with the surrounding wells.
What you see up here is you have lower IPs but much flatter declines.
And so these wells just they perform differently.
The permeability is higher here in these rocks and so they're not -- and the pressure is a bit lower.
So they perform differently than the wells that are right down more near the kitchen [ph].
Inc</strong> I just meant that the existing wells as you said were 1 015 barrels a day and the new ones were 670 for the Middle Bakken Three Forks -- for Three Forks is that not a significant difference or...? Maybe I didn't understand your question.
Part of that also have -- we've talked a little bit about IPs and how -- it depends how you test them and I'm not sure how those original wells were tested but the real measurements is going to be more of a long-term production over time rather than just comparing IPs.
Well thanks everybody for joining our call this morning and I appreciate very much.
And this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Continental Resources Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
John Kilgallon Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Richard and good morning.
And welcome to the Continental second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Joining me today with prepared remarks is the company's Founder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Harold Hamm; Rick Bott our President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also available during the Q&amp;A session will be various members of the senior management team: Gary Gould Senior Vice President of Operations; Jack Stark Senior Vice President of Exploration; Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land; and Warren Henry Vice President of Research and Policy.
Jeff Hume our Vice Chairman of Strategic Initiatives is traveling today to North Dakota and unavailable to join us.
In conjunction with the earnings press release and call this morning we have posted a supplementary presentation on our website as a reference.
All these slides are included in the portal within the webcast and are available on temporary buttons that are on our home page at clr.com.
Let me remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Also on the call we will refer to EBITDAX cash margin and adjusted net income per diluted share.
For a reconciliation of EBITDAX to GAAP net income and operating cash flow and a description and calculation of cash margin and a reconciliation of adjusted net income per diluted share of GAAP net income please refer to the summary presentation I mentioned earlier that's posted on our website.
And lastly before I turn it over to Harold I'd like to extend an invitation to our Analyst Day which will be held on September 18 here in Oklahoma City.
A registration link is on our homepage and has details and agenda.
With that I'll turn it over to Harold.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us on our call.
The Continental team delivered a solid second quarter distinguished by several key highlights.
We maintained strong production through the late winter and spring months accelerated in June with the benefit of good operating conditions.
Now with the ideal summer working weather we're continuing to drive our production growth at strong rate.
Sequentially in the second quarter we increased production by roughly 15 500 Boe per day compared to the first quarter a 10% increase.
This absolute increase 15 500 Boe per day in the second quarter is almost double the sequential increase in production that we achieved during the fourth quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014.
Our strongest growth in the quarter was in SCOOP where we are increasingly drawing extended laterals which has a significant impact on well economics.
Next highlight in the second quarter we made great progress with our Bakken enhanced completions testing program.
Initial production results have been very encouraging.
At our September 18 Investor Day in Oklahoma City we plan to provide detailed summaries of our enhanced completion results in various parts of the Bakken and have these results reshape our future plans.
The third highlight of the quarter was the successful first 660-foot Bakken density test the Wahpeton project in McKenzie County.
As we noted in the press release the 12 new wells averaged more than 1 000 Boe per day in their initial testing period.
We expect to have results on our remaining 3 660-foot density test by year end.
In SCOOP we've initiated our first density drilling test at the Poteet unit in Stephens County with 5 wells in the upper Woodford and 5 wells in the lower.
We should have results from this test in late 2014.
Our production growth is obviously impressive and our downspacing and enhanced completions will catch the headlines but equally important is how Gary and the operation teams are continually reducing costs analyzing and more aggressively deploying artificial lift to enhance production and overall focusing on managing a complex fast-growing operation to maximize capital efficiency.
Rig efficiency continues to improve.
Our Bakken team has upgraded the fleet and on each -- on an average each rig is now drilling 14 wells per year compared with 11 at the end of 2012.
I'll have Rick give you the details on our operating results and John will cover the key financial points.
I just want to emphasize that we are solidly on track to achieve our 2014 goal of 26% to 32% production growth and our 5-year commitment to triple production and prove reserves by year end 2017.
Looking to the remainder of 2014 we expect continued strong production growth particularly in the fourth quarter.
Given the timing of our large pad projects most were -- growth acceleration will be later in the year.
Before closing I'd like to highlight a couple of significant milestones in the Bakken and specifically North Dakota.
North Dakota oil production surpassed the 1 million barrel per day milestone in second quarter 2014 and the Bakken has now produced its 1 billionth barrel of oil.
We are obviously proud of Continental's contribution to these records and the jobs and other economic benefits that resulted from the development of the Bakken petroleum system.
We're proud to be helping move our country toward greater energy security and independence.
According to one expert the Bakken is 1 of the 3 American oil fields to have recently surpassed 1 million barrels a day of production and there are only 7 others in the world that have achieved this milestone.
The American Energy Renaissance is literally changing the world's energy industry landscape.
I've been intentionally brief with my remarks today because we're anticipating giving you a comprehensive overview of operations and strategic growth opportunities at our 2014 Investor and Analyst Day.
Looking ahead to Investor Day let me leave you with 3 strategic things on which we will focus: one Continental's continuously exploration focus working not only in promising new plays but also pushing the extent at the Bakken and SCOOP through density drilling and the implementation of enhanced completions that accelerate early production and may improve overall recoveries; two in SCOOP we're just now revealing the value-creation potential of the play that we unveiled only 2 years ago.
SCOOP's importance continues to increase as a major growth driver in Continental's future; three and finally the knowledge acceleration as we implement new drilling and completion technologies is simply tremendous both in terms of increasing well productivity and improving capital efficiency.
In the Bakken it took us 8 years to demonstrate the enormous potential of the entire petroleum system and now we are shifting into a higher gear as we enter full-field development.
We're on a much faster track in SCOOP benefiting from all we learned in the Bakken.
We will outline what impact these may have on our 5-year plan and beyond.
I hope you will be with us in Oklahoma City for our 2014 Investor Day.
It's going to be an exciting and informative big day.
With that I'll turn over the call over to Rick Bott.
Rick? Thanks Harold.
I'd like to echo some of Harold's comments and give you additional color on our emerging opportunities.
We've mentioned that Continental is on track to achieve its 5-year goal of tripling production and proved reserves.
As we laid out these goals in late 2012 we pointed out our strategic objectives in the Bakken and the SCOOP.
In the Bakken we said we would focus on expanding the limits and exploring the deeper potentials of the Three Forks; that we would execute a series of density tests; we would continue to reduce well cost and focus on expanding our access to key markets on the West East and Gulf Coast.
This past year we added a focus of enhanced completions to accelerate production and further improve the capital efficiency as Harold outlined.
In introducing SCOOP 2 years ago we said the first priorities were to explore and delineate the play; to increase further our leasehold footprint; and then to focus on extended laterals and density drilling to understand the true potential of the play long term and accelerate our understanding as Harold mentioned.
These strategic objectives however had to be met without us sacrificing the production and earnings growth of the 5-year plan.
In the second quarter 2014 we significantly advanced our strategic efforts in all of these areas and we accelerated production growth hitting our stride in the second quarter averaging approximately 168 000 barrels equivalent per day in the second quarter 2014.
June production averaged approximately 177 000 barrels equivalent per day.
We expect moderate production growth from the level -- from this level through the remainder of the third quarter given the timing of large pad projects followed by strong growth in the fourth quarter.
Sequential production growth was driven by strong results in both the Bakken and SCOOP.
In the Bakken we increased production 11% from the first quarter to the second.
And for the first time we broke through the 100 000 barrels equivalent per day barrier for an entire quarter.
Our net Bakken production was approximately 109 000 barrels equivalent per day for the second quarter.
In June Bakken production was approximately 116 000 barrels equivalent per day contributing almost 2/3 of the total company production.
In SCOOP production increased in the second quarter by 17% sequentially from the first quarter and almost 2x over production for the second quarter of 2013.
This achievement reflects our shift to extended lateral wells in excess -- success of the exploration program as we delineate the play to the South.
I would also remind you that our SCOOP wells have a slower average decline rate than the Bakken wells which facilitate our growth momentum particularly in the Oil window.
Related to higher production in both areas of course is the issue of growing transportation and oil and marketing needs.
Timely access to trains continues to be a challenge in North Dakota given increased demand from multiple industry sectors.
New pipeline capacity is being commissioned in the second half with additional capacity anticipated in 2015 and 2016.
Midstream companies are also adding gas gathering systems and processing capacity as quickly as possible assisted by more favorable weather the past several months.
Expanded processing capacity is the critical factor as the industry works to capture value.
This is another key area in which Continental is leading by example.
The key factor is simply time as midstream investment catches up with the unprecedented growth in the play.
The Bakken is truly a world-class oil and gas play and its growth momentum has exceeded everyone's expectations.
In terms of getting more produced gases to the market we support proactive steps by North Dakota Governor Dalrymple to require operators to file a gas capture plan prior to the issuance of drilling permits.
Continental has been submitting such plans for a long time.
And as a result approximately 90% of our produced gas is routinely delivered to market.
Continental is already near the Governor's long-term goal for the entire industry.
Next let's discuss our operating accomplishments in a little greater detail.
You might recall that we spent the majority of '12 and '13 standardizing our drilling completion methods which resulted in lower cost and strengthened capital efficiency.
Since late 2013 we've tuned our attention to the Bakken to improve recovery rates by modifying our standard completion design and incorporating enhanced completion technologies.
And as John mentioned we've put out a pack of slides.
If you refer to Slides 5 and 6 for my next few comments you'll see what I'm talking about graphically.
Given our vast acreage leasehold and drilling programs we stand to benefit more than any operator from the optimization of well recoveries in the Bakken and SCOOP.
Consequently we are systematically testing various elements in the completion process.
We want to be able to measure and analyze various components and see how they impact results in different subplays across the Bakken.
We've seeing significant uplift and early production in most areas compared to typical wells in each region.
The application of different techniques has positively impacted earlier production and now we're honing in on the combination of fluids in profit in each area that have the best cost-benefit characteristics.
Our original 2014 plan was to use enhanced completion techniques to complete 16 net wells or approximately 20% of our completions in the Bakken and we stated that this effort will be front-end loaded in the first half of the year.
Through the first half in terms of operating wells Continental completed 59 net or 75 gross using enhanced completion techniques and we are monitoring production results at this time.
Referring to Slide 6 we highlighted a half-dozen examples of the enhanced completions in yesterday's release.
3 sample slick water completed wells generated earlier production that was 35% higher than the production trend for our 603-barrel equivalent production model for North Dakota and 25% higher than nearby offset wells completed with our standard design.
Another 3 sample wells completed with larger proppant loads generated early production 39% higher than the 603 barrels equivalent model and 30% higher than nearby offset wells completed with the standard design.
The endgame is to determine the specific completion approach is most cost effective for each part of the play as we transition into full-field development.
As Harold mentioned we'll give more information on this at Investor's Day.
Backing up to Slide 4 I want to highlight our Wahpeton density project in McKenzie County and we're very pleased with the results.
This was our first 660-foot density drilling test with a total of 12 new wells in the Middle Bakken and Three Forks first second and third benches.
The average IP rate for new wells was 1 730 barrel equivalent per day in the Middle Bakken zone 935 barrels equivalent per day in the Three Forks first bench and second and third bench wells averaged 700 000 barrels equivalent per day.
This is a solid test result especially considering that the Wahpeton wells were completed with the standard completion design.
It's too soon to talk about conclusions on the Wahpeton well much beyond IPs but we plan to conduct post-testing and we'll be watching our production results after we put these wells on our official list.
The next three 660-foot test the Lawrence Mack and Hartman pilots will be completed with enhanced completion designs.
Our goal is to integrate the knowledge gained from our completion design test with our new downspacing pilot results to maximize recoveries accelerate production and thus drive higher realization returns and greater MPD as we transition into full-field development.
Referring to Slide 8 and talking about down-spacing opportunities in Bakken to those in the SCOOP.
We've commenced drilling our first density pilot in the neck area of the SCOOP in Stephens County.
The Poteet project involves drilling 5 separate 2-well pads.
We expect drilling to be completed by the end of the third quarter.
In this area of play the Woodford's approximately 380 feet thick leading us to believe it should be developed on at least 2 levels and we're testing that concept.
As our exploration program is progressed to the south of play we found other areas where the Woodford has even greater thickness.
We'll talk about this in greater detail next month but the headline is that SCOOP is a world-class repeatable resource play who's potential we are just beginning to unlock as Harold mentioned.
You've seen the impressive production growth over the past 2 years and we're just getting started.
We're in the very early days of understanding the geological potential of the SCOOP petroleum system just beginning to realize drilling and completion efficiencies and just beginning to unpack the tremendous value creation opportunity that we have in SCOOP.
We pride ourselves at Continental in terms of innovative exploration thinking pushing the technical envelope and execution in the field to create value for our shareholders.
Results from our density pilots and enhanced completion programs illustrate the power of this strategic approach.
We think this combination of efforts provides us a unique opportunity to maximize recoveries enhance returns enhance capital efficiency and maximize that NPV of the premier assets that we have assembled in the Bakken and SCOOP.
It's already in the game but Continental is an early-stage growth company.
As Harold said exploration of these resource plays can take many forms but all hinges on the drill bit.
We look forward to giving you an update in September.
With that I'll turn it over to John Hart.
Thank you Rick.
The second quarter of 2014 was a solid performance with record EBITDAX totaling $868 million.
Our cash margins remained strong as well at $55.45 per barrel and 75 percentage -- 75% on a percentage basis.
As mentioned earlier our production trend has gained momentum since the first quarter setting the stage for the back half of the year.
We're very focused on ensuring we are capturing the highest price possible in our oil and natural gas marketing efforts.
As other peers have already announced we did see weakness in NGO process in the second quarter especially compared to the first quarter with a heavier-than-usual winter demand on the heating-centric NGLs.
This weakness had a larger impact than usual on our financials.
All differentials were higher as well but this was on a higher absolute commodity price so above our internal forecast for net realizations.
These trends may continue through the remainder of the year.
Last quarter we mentioned we anticipated a large amount of new infrastructure line fill to begin in the second quarter.
It turned out that this was not the case due to delays from the midstream operator.
Instead in the second quarter we sold roughly 78 000 more barrels of oil than we actually produced.
We expect oil inventories to increase in the second half of 2014 as line fill requirements are satisfied for new pipeline infrastructure being developed in key operating areas.
This may result in reduced sales volumes in the second half by an aggregate of approximately 500 000 net barrels.
Although the impact may be partially offset by sales of stored production.
In the quarterly results our LOE production tax and G&amp;A were within previously disclosed annual guidance and improved in many ways.
DD&amp;A increased in the quarter for several reasons: DD&amp;A was impacted by our exploration efforts to push the limits of our plays in the Bakken and SCOOP as well as by the larger density pilots in the enhanced completions program in the Bakken which entails an incremental cost of $1.5 million to $2 million per well.
We have limited well production history with these new completions and we have a similar situation in other areas where we are doing exploratory work.
Given all these factors we have taken a conservative stance on estimating reserve bookings which yielded a higher DD&amp;A rate.
Annualized net debt-to-EBITDA at the end of the second quarter was 1.5x approximately with debt per flowing barrel remaining strong as well.
So we're in a solid position for our key debt metric.
During the second quarter we issued our first 2 tranches of investment grade debt $1 billion of 10-year paper at 3.8%; and $700 million of 30-year paper at 4.9% extremely attractive rates.
With the proceeds we paid down our revolver to 0 and we also called our 8 1/4 bonds previously due in 2019.
This will flow through our financials in the third quarter of 2014.
We finished the second quarter with roughly $780 million of cash on the balance sheet $324 million of that was subsequently utilized in July for the bond goal.
Concluding our call we are pleased with our progress year-to-date and very excited about the upcoming opportunity to meet you at Investor Day on September 18 when we will discuss our activities in greater detail.
Thank you for your participation in the call this morning.
With that we'd like to turn it back over to the operator for a Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question online comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm guessing we're going to get a lot of details in September but I'll try a couple if I may.
Rick you talked about the 59 wells that you used the enhanced completions I guess in the first half of the year but you only called out couple of the well results in the presentation.
I'm just wondering if you can give us some kind of more of an average for the wells that have got enough production history.
And just related to that in the past you've kind of talked about whether you were accelerating production or actually improving recovery I'm just curious if you'd draw any conclusions from the tests that you've seen yet? I've got a follow-up please.
Sure.
Well on the wells that we've got what we gave you is just a selected group from the 2 of the completion designs that we've seen wells more -- that we've been very very pleased with the results a lot of the other 59 wells that we've done are just really don't have enough production therefore is yet to be comfortable in giving an average.
Continental likes to have a little bit of production under our belt before we confidently come out and say what that uplift will be.
But I think Gary can the range is quite broad but most the results are quite exciting.
So let me let Gary to give some color on the range of outcomes we've seen on completion design.
Sure.
A little bit of comment on that.
We are tracking all our various tests.
And as we look at the data most of the wells to date just have about 30 days of production back so it's very early.
The range we're seeing on slick water as well as larger profit amounts is between 0 -- or I should say positive 2% to over 100% based on all the wells we've looked at to date on this particular technique.
So we're especially encouraged by putting more proppant into our completions as well as testing slick water.
Research Division</strong> Is there a regional variability behind that Gary? It's quite a wide range.
Well it is a wide range.
A lot of that has to do with the number of wells we've tested so far.
It's -- oil and gas is very statistical in nature and so the more wells we test the more we're going to be able to hone in on.
Research Division</strong> So and then the recovery rate? Sorry go ahead.
So what’s your question about recovery? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry my question on the recovery was I think in the past you said you haven't quite figured out if the additional cost was going to be -- how the economics are going to play out determining whether this was an actually increasing recovery or if it was accelerating the production of the same amount of resource if you see what I mean.
So it may be little early to figure think about.
I was just curious hope you had get some thoughts that you could share with us.
Yes it's very early.
I think that takes a long period of time to see as we measure declines to figure out how much of this incremental production is truly incremental reserves versus how much is accelerated.
The second thing is it's very important as we evaluate these to look at spacing at the same time that we're looking at completion analysis.
And so we're already are combining our looks on that to understand how do we maximize the profitability with that combination.
And so these are things that we continually evaluate.
We have multi-disciplined teams working on this.
I mean a combination of geologists operations engineers and resource development engineers and as -- has been mentioned earlier we're going to be presenting a lot more of that information a lot more detailed data here in September in about 6 weeks.
Doug if I can pick up on one more just -- I'm going to add one point to Gary's comments then.
It was perhaps commented by John in his comments.
As that rolls into our financials we've essentially taken a conservative approach for our reserve bookings and all those wells and so that conservative approach is the way we translate into our financials.
We are optimistic however and it's kind of consistently if we took an average we're seeing that 25% to 35% uplift.
Basing this on Harold's 50 years’ experience he made the comment that rarely in these plays have we seen an uplift that's that significant in the near term that doesn't at some ultimately point translate into reserves and into recovery.
So we're very optimistic.
We're currently evaluating all the results that we have doing some testing evaluating those a little bit more production history and we'll try to give you a lot more guidance on the recovery factor and reserve impact and uplift for the whole play -- for the play as a whole when you come in September.
Our next question online comes from the line of Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First question was has any of your results from pilots changed your view on the first bench of the Three Forks EURs or should we still assume a 603 mBoe EUR? I think the reserves are going to vary throughout the play.
And so what we're doing is we are evaluating -- with another multi-disciplined team that we have made up of geologists and resource development engineers we're evaluating the original oil in place the reserves performance throughout multiple geodomain areas to understand what type of type curves we have throughout the play.
So there's variability throughout the play because geology varies throughout the play and that's why our tests are being performed throughout the play also.
So there'll be more information to come and more details in September but we are evaluating that variation.
So Pearce there we're optimistic there.
When we get to the September we will be able to sort of break this down by zones and give you guys some of that guidance on whether or not we think the facts should improve.
That's one of our targets that we're working towards.
Research Division</strong> And then my follow-up and I know you're going to address this next month at the Analyst Day in Oklahoma City but if there's any help that you can provide us just maybe even some guardrails around what '15 CapEx and production guidance might look like or what are some different ways we can think about it from our perspective? Yes we will.
We certainly intend.
I think we came out ahead of -- most of the players last year to let you know what the 2014 will be and that's one of the plans that kind of Harold outlined there that we will give you a look on how has all of this thing that we're doing going to translate into the near term the 2015 budget and then it how is it going to impact our 5-year plan and then what does it look like for the whole play and what does that mean for Continental beyond that beyond 5 years.
So we've got a lot of moving parts.
There's a lot of things that are -- that we’re working on and we are hopeful that this will be as Harold says an information rich event for you.
So please do come.
Our next question online comes from Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys just in terms of the enhanced completion practices it sounds like you guys did your roughly your budget of wells here in the first half.
Sounds like you're encouraged.
Should we still be expecting to see more wells in the Bakken with enhanced completion techniques in the second half of the year here? Well that's exactly right.
As we mentioned in the statements there the Lawrence Mack and Hartman those will have some new completion designs in there and then we're kind of evaluating on what the program is going to be going forward.
So we'll give you guidance on that again in 6 weeks’ time.
But the teams are working on that.
Leo -- we're moving about as fast as the equipment will allow us up there in the play and there've been some equipment limitation for these bigger jobs high-volume jobs.
So we're moving as fast we can.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's good to hear for sure.
I guess just looking at the Bakken I think you guys talked about completing 159 wells in the first half of the year.
You've got 287 scheduled for the full year.
I guess it implies a modest slowdown in the second half.
You guys talked about out [ph] production accelerating more in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.
I guess can you maybe just talk a little bit to completion sort of cadence here in 3Q versus 4Q.
And are you going to see something similar in the SCOOP as well? Is that also more kind of fourth quarter loaded? Yes and that's basically driven by the timing of pad.
So you should be encouraged by the production growth that we've already seen.
We've already mentioned what our June number was.
So currently we have production approach at 180 000 BOEs per day.
So that's already strong growth over our average for the second quarter.
But it was up -- as was also mentioned earlier we expect a little bit of flattening due to the timing of all our pad developments through the third quarter and then accelerating again in the fourth quarter.
And so we're well on our path to meeting our production guidance and expect future growth to continue into next year and look forward to showing you that next month.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow-up on the Wahpeton pad.
One can certainly look at the middle Bakken rates that seem positive and the 9 wells elsewhere perhaps less so.
This seems very early on but can you provide a little bit more clarity on how and what you're seeing at Wahpeton compares to what you expected and what you were seeing at some of the other pads less about the middle Bakken and then more color with regards to the Three Forks zones? Well especially for the Wahpeton that one is very early for us.
And so what we have is we have wells sort of flowing back.
They're not all on artificial lift yet so there's a lot of optimization yet to prove on.
And so what we see is very strong initial results that we're pleased with and we expect that that will continue to improve over time as we put wells on artificial lift and pump them down.
Yes and Brian this is Jack.
I just might add that these initial rates are fairly similar to what we experienced in the Charlotte unit just to the east of here.
And so my feel here is that really things look like they're right in line of what we experienced there.
And what I'm really encouraged about here and a lot of times people lose sight of this when we see these varying different IP rates coming from these different layers different benches.
To me what that's indicating is that we're tying into reservoir rock that hadn't previously been tied into.
We're getting some unique reserves because these different wellbores are performing differently.
So I think they're reflecting the rock that they're in.
And I think it just adds to the -- I guess the the thesis that we have here is that there's oil in place in these lower benches for us to harvest.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my follow-up is with regards to the rail bottlenecks that I think Harold mentioned in his opening comments.
Is this a heightened potential constraint here to Bakken growth in the second half? And can you just talk about how you see transportation costs evolving over time here? And then how much is related -- how much of all this is related to regulatory changes/clarity versus economy driven just competition to use the rails from other industries.
Well what we're seeing -- what we're looking forward to in the second half of the year is additional pipeline capacity coming on and which will take a lot of the heat off the rail.
And so we're seeing the rail movements improve continually.
We've seen that through the summer here but occasionally you have a slowdown in that.
But I think the addition of other pipelines coming on is going to help that whole situation.
So you take a couple of hundred thousand barrels off of the -- and put it on pipe it helps a lot.
Building on that Brian just we talked about this last quarter I don't know if you picked up on it but we kind of anticipated the if you will the inconsistency.
And so we built infield storage so that we're able to manage this.
When we talked about filling that last quarter.
We continue to do that and so we continue to stay ahead of this game to make sure that we're able to get our production and be able to optimize and manage the logistics.
But the crude logistics has clearly always been an issue for the Bakken and we continue to work those issues both at the field level and getting into the -- maximizing the different market we can get it to.
Our next question comes from Subash Chandra from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> First question is the SCOOP well results that you divulged.
How did that compare to expectations.
And the lateral length of those I believe Grady County wells are those in line with what you intend to do down there and were there some quarter low results as well during the quarter? As far as initial results we're very pleased with how the wells are coming in on the SCOOP.
And when we look at our wells we've got some oily wells that are declining at a much flatter rate than what we would have expected if we looked at some of the gassier regions down there.
And so we're very pleased with the overall economics.
In the -- to the lateral lengths we continually moved up more and more the wells been drilled have been long laterals.
And we're able to do this successfully across much of the play down there so we're very pleased with what our team has done in that regard.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So the Colt and the Mackie being in that 4 000 -- right around 4 000 feet was that because of lease consideration? Is that just sort of a -- an initial view of the County with intentions to increase that lateral length meaningfully? Yes Subash this is Jack.
They were limited both by lease and also geology in those areas.
And I might mention too in the Mackie well we've got 4 200-foot of lateral there but about 3 000 of that was actually in the Woodford.
So that the area is a little more structural complexity and so we didn't have those 4 200 in zone.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as a follow-up for Harold can you help me interpret I guess the studies that you guys had sponsored as well as others? And I guess the final study talking about again the oil being very very similar but raising the packaging risk on it risk number or however they measure it but then still saying that it could be transported on more 111 cars.
Could you just sort of talk about your current view now that the study has been done and if there's anything else in the works to debate your point? Well we -- these are very light -- call it a high-quality oil up there and that's why refineries like it so well.
And the study has basically shown that similar oils I mean this falls in the category and we've been -- it's been labeled properly and now people want to compare it to other oils but they didn't do the study on the other oils.
So like a Permian and West Texas intermediate for instance.
So that will be done but the volatility range is much the same as other oil similar gravity oil so that's been done.
We feel good where we're at with the -- as far as the new regulations we feel like we need proper time to upgrade cars and as -- but we're not seeing anything come out of that.
That's -- you know rail was quick to respond to all safety measures: stolen trains improving track all those things.
They were quick to do.
And so it's coming about we feel like in a good manner and -- we're getting information out getting it in the right hands and the final report's out so we think those things are going to help and bear out that this be a safe way to move the oil and that's been borne out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can just finish with asking to elaborate on the rail bottlenecks: were they -- Chicago moving East moving West or did it have to do with these regulations could you speak more to it? I can touch that Subash.
No they weren't associated with these regulations at all.
They were more weather related and just demand from all the different industry sectors and there's more about trains in the field not showing up.
And so essentially the rail industry has responded by looping tracks building more tracks building more cars loading facilities are getting a lot more efficient.
So long term we don't see this as a problem.
Is just you've got to -- sometimes you got to cycle through as everybody hits production at the same time.
Can I pick up Subash on one of your questions? I just want to come back to those Colt and Mackie wells that -- your point there about one thing that just to realize is we explore this oil window those wells we don't -- again like we don't necessarily like the Bakken we don't necessarily go out there for a huge IP rate.
These are very very good wells and the nice thing about this oil window and we might define the oil window slightly different than some other operators.
But our true oil window is true oil window [ph] Bakken well.
And the declining curve on these wells are really very very low.
And so and that's why you're able to see the production adds with not a whole lot of new wells.
And so this production growth is because we have very flat decline in these oil window wells.
So we're very excited about those counties that you mentioned there as well.
Our next question online comes from Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One on the SCOOP.
Have you all drilled or put the lateral in the upper portion of the Woodford? And if so I mean did you have similar results as the lower Woodford? Yes Brian we have tested both the upper and lower halfs of various wells throughout the play and we do see similar results.
We're looking at just now as with our test here to try to determine where we're in areas that are over 200-feet thick or so.
We're thinking we're probably going to need to have wells in the upper half and lower half.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And then with all these down-space tests I guess the next step is when does this go to kind of full-field development or at least in that area where -- when do you think you're going to see another Antelope-like development? Is that something that's beyond 2015 or is that kind of what we're all setting up for at the Analyst Day? Well I think it'll be a balance.
We'll have to look at -- we'll probably do just like we did in the Bakken where you have to balance the HBP requirements the rigs that are available and moving into full-field development.
But I think you'll see us come out with more larger drilling programs in a concentrated area because we feel like we've de-risked the play significantly.
We'll probably be in and around that neck area to start because we have the most data there.
But I think you'll see a combination of both and we're in the process of debating that internally as we put together our long-term plans.
And to follow-up on that Brian we certainly will be talking about this in Analyst Day.
Our next question online comes from Drew Venker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I guess you guys noted some very big rates in the gas condensate window in SCOOP.
Curious if those were above your expectations and if maybe that won't change how much cap rate you directed to that window of the play? I think to your -- quick answer is yes they were very good rates and met our expectations at least and some were better than that.
And of course the better the wells you drill the more money you're going to put there so yes to both those.
Research Division</strong> And then Harold as a follow-up.
Can you speak to how much of your activity is directed to the oil window and the condensate window this year? 50-50.
50-50.
Our next question online comes from Joe Allman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> In terms of the new completion designs if you found the economics have improved what would prevent you from adopting the new techniques right away and drill just better economic wells instead of just really good economic wells? Nothing would prevent us from doing that so that's why we're continuing to experiment with the new completions.
And from what we're learning in the Bakken we're also applying that quicker down south in the SCOOP plays as well.
And so we're very focused on maximizing the profitability.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So are you saying that you're already going beyond the 60-or-so wells and you're like immediately adopting them and say instead of just using that technique on those additional pilot wells you are actually more widely using the new completion techniques? So that's one.
And then back to the Wahpeton could you just talk about the -- how those downspaced wells compared to nearby less densely drilled wells? And have you seen any communication and any -- do you expect any EUR degradation there? Sure.
Joe I think the way we'd answer that is as we mentioned in the initial description there we do have more completions planned.
We talked about the Lawrence Mack and Hartman those pilots.
We've got some other things we're working up some plans.
Gary talked about trying to get an understanding by the different areas of the different subplays in the basin.
So we are building all those plans and I think that's one of the things that we're saying.
To put that in context it's best done at an Analyst Day where we can show you the data and we can talk about that.
So that's where we'll be doing that.
With respect to Wahpeton I don't know at the top of my head what nearby wells are but those are in line or better.
Haven't seen any interference or anything like that.
So no we will -- but these are only IP rates.
So we haven't done post-testing which is probably the best way to answer your question and we will be doing that in the near term and hopefully getting an answer on that.
But we are -- we're pretty optimistic that this downspacing continues to give us results that are encouraging as well as surprising.
And so it helps us hone our ideas.
And if you think back about our outcomes from that very very large microseismic program we did where we basically saw on the subsurface that we were not stimulating and touching as much of the rock that previous models had thought.
And so all of our efforts here both in downspacing as well as the larger and larger completion designs are really trying to get at that question and trying to get what is optimal? And of course that all translates into capital efficiency but we will try to make sure we're getting the most oil out of this rock as we possibly can in a cost-effective and timely manner because of course oil is worth a whole lot more to the investors if we can produce it today and next year then years down the road.
So we're trying to bring as much acceleration story to that as possible.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Jason Wangler from Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just had one quick one in the SCOOP.
Moving more and more towards the extended laterals.
Is there any constraint besides permitting there or acreage or is it maybe more just as you get more HBP done you'll kind of start moving toward that given the economic benefits? Well I think I'll let Jack comment on it.
But as you move down to the South this is a tectonically much more complex structurally much more lateral changes because of the -- because you're in a big fold belt there.
And so those are -- it's probably more a geologic constraint.
All the leasing in the spacing units is essentially you can do that to an administrative process.
So it's more about the geology and trying to make sure you tie and get the right length of well in the right area.
So 3 seismic is important here but our program is running and we're understanding this as we move further to south.
So but the good thing about that is it provides really an enhanced fracturing and a whole lot better well.
So there's operational constraints but I think we're figuring those out as we move.
And I would say Jason that about 50% of our wells right now are drilling cross lateral -- across unit wells and I can see that easily get into 75%.
So we will be able to play it broadly across the play.
Our next question online comes from Marshall Carver from Heikkinen Energy.
LLC</strong> On the SCOOP acreage how much of your SCOOP acreage is picking up so that it can potentially accommodate wells in both zones like your downspacing pilots going to be? How much is in that 380-foot thickness range? Yes we're kind of right now are using 200-foot as a cutoff in our minds right now and we'll see how that falls.
But right now that would represent about 40% to probably 50% of our acreage.
LLC</strong> Okay.
On the -- any comments on go-forward expense guidance? Should the DD&amp;A track the 2Q level going forward? And any comments on 3Q and 4Q on other expense lines? On DD&amp;A if you look at the annual guidance we're clearly above that year-to-date.
For the full year I think we'll probably end up being a bit above that top-end guidance.
It's early on a lot of these wells were very optimistic with what we're seeing in the early time production results.
So we hope to see some improvement there as we go forward.
The back half of the year we're focusing -- part of the component we talked about was the exploration area testing some of the extent of our positions in different areas.
Our drilling in the back half of the year is more focused in areas that we know that are strong and we should see improvement from that.
So we're optimistic about that.
Before 2014 I would expect we'll be above the top end.
That's something that we'll look at -- we're looking at very closely.
We'll give you some updated guidance at Investor Day.
I think it's important for you to also note that on DD&amp;A being a little bit above you're seeing the other variables uh lifting cost G&amp;A production taxes they're all towards the tight side of guidance or in some cases better than the guidance.
So there's a little bit of a give-and-take but just the nature of where we're at.
We're very early and but we're very excited about what we're seeing.
Our next question online comes from Matt Portillo from TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on the DD&amp;A side.
I was wondering if you -- if it's possible to provide a little bit of color on how much of the increase potentially came from the enhanced completion cost increases about the increase in the EURs versus how much kind of came from acreage delineation or deeper zone delineation.
I'll comment on that first and see if anybody else wants to comment.
I would tell you that my valuation of it is that we -- the wells that had first production in the first half of this year were scattered in a lot of areas where we were holding acreage or testing areas around the outside trying to make them more economic.
And so I know our teams are working on multiple things to improve the economics.
And so one thing is shifting rigs from HBP new acreage that might be more on the fringes to concentrating on the highest rate of return areas.
So that's going to help improve it.
And then the completions themselves are helping to improve it also.
Yes.
Go ahead.
As far as the spread I think it's spread amongst those across the broader basins so it's hard to give you a set percentage.
There's some variability on that.
Because some of those projects can overlap in what categorization you're looking at.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just back to the Anadarko Basin I know that the SCOOP is obviously a very important part of your drilling program.
Just curious with some of your acreage to the North in terms of the stack potential within the Merrimack or kind of the Cana I was wondering if you could provide maybe an update or any thoughts around either kind of testing the Merrimack or kind of testing some of the upside fracs in the Cana as well? Sure.
Just as far as the stack is concerned we've got 102 000 net acres in there and we're -- really we are just watching activity.
Activity has started to pick up up there.
I mean obviously we've had some initial wells drilled and so we're seeing more and more activity up there.
And so we're encouraged with what we're seeing up there as far as some of the early time results.
And I will mention a lot of that acreage we have up there is legacy acreage so a lot of it is HBP.
So we have the luxury of being able to focus our dollars where we have higher rates of return right now and then we can build on this as time allows.
Our next question online comes from Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
In the SCOOP I want to get an update on your thinking about NGL marketing.
I'm just wondering as we get close to looking into 2015 and you think about how things looked a year ago I just wondered if the outlook has played out about like you you guys expected for NGL processing going forward or has the market unfolded differently than you were planning? We've got -- I think there are a number of key variables there.
We've got plenty of takeaway capacity.
We're seeing some potential for incremental capacity going to some very good markets.
We like that optionality.
There's plenty of processing and more is being -- is coming in.
You've seen some announcements over the last month of different plants on that.
Yes there is a little bit of seasonality with the weather last winter certainly benefited us with a colder winter.
And we were certainly hopeful of that this year but blended in with our overall view on the play.
It's a component of the economics there.
And this is an area we're very excited about it has great economics for us and pleased with the infrastructure and we're pleased with the incremental infrastructure that's coming.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess sticking with infrastructure a little bit.
Could you clarify for me what the status is right now with line fill for example in Pony Express I know you quantified sort of the effect that that line fill might have on fills volumes second half of the year.
I wondered if that -- that figure the $500 000 you gave also included any other pipelines or whether that was all Pony Express.
It includes some field gathering things as well.
So there's a lot of things included in that number so perhaps we're not the best to comment on that but those lines are being filled and we have a little bit of contribution to it.
Research Division</strong> Is that process about wrapped up? No on Pony Express it isn't -- have some [indiscernible].
No it will be going on for another couple of months.
Yes.
Just one other point Noel on SCOOP.
You asked about -- just one point that John talked about that incremental infrastructure that's coming as well.
So the strategy is essentially the same as it was in the Bakken and that is being able to have a portfolio approach in flexibility markets.
So with that we'll be able to get to both Mont Belvieu or Conway so we're going to have pricing in either and we can take advantage of those -- both of those markets to be able to get our gas and our NGLs too.
Our next question online comes from Ryan Oatman from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the rules on pilot can you describe how those results are informing your completion designs and spacing assumptions moving forward I know there a couple of variables there.
Just wanted to see if you can comment on both the completion designs and the spacing.
It's still a little bit early on that.
It is something that we'll be able to comment on next month.
As you know it's a combination of both 1320 spacing but we also have done multiple different types of completion analyses and we're just continuing to evaluate that and we'll be able to report out those details next month for you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very good.
And then I don't want to beat the Wahpeton question to death.
But can you describe just maybe the variance between the benches of the Three Forks 1 2 3? Are those wells producing similarly or do you see variances between the benches? It's hard to comment on right now because it's very early.
So what happens especially early in the first 30 to 60 days you're talking about several wells that are still flowing back on their own and so they are very strong production.
At the same time we don't have them on artificial lift and so you just don't have a consistent trend in which you can evaluate the reserve potential.
And so that will be one more thing we'll try to comment more on next month.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And one final one for me.
On the SCOOP wells is the condensate produced at the wellhead or is it recovered later at a processing facility? No it's recovered at the wellhead.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is it run through stabilizes at that point? Not currently.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Not currently.
Are there any plans to increase sort of the use of distillation towers given that the recent rulings from the Commerce Department? Ryan let's just say it's a hot topic of investigation.
Our next question comes from Paul Grigel from Macquarie.
Just following up on Ryan's question there.
Has there been any update on your crude export application or any ongoing discussions post the recent decision? No.
Okay.
And then second on the SCOOP you guys added 35 000 acres during the quarter.
What's the longer-term opportunity for continuing to add acreage in the play? There's always opportunities out there.
We're aggressively pursuing key mineral leasing and acquisitions.
We had 13 acquisitions this quarter.
We'll continue to pursue every opportunity that we can.
We've got a task force put together and couple of hundred brokers out there.
We're going to continue.
And our final question comes from Gil Yang from DISCERN.
Inc</strong> With the greater expense for the enhanced completions how should we view your capital budget for the year as it's trending based on the sort of the number of wells you have completed and likely to complete using those enhanced completions? If you look at the -- if you look at us at midyear we're right on top of the midyear capital budget I think we're maybe 4% or 5% ahead.
So we're not at all that far ahead.
We have a lot of optionality in the rigs and how we deploy those in the different areas.
And it's just the timing of completions.
So there are a lot of variables that go into that.
That's something that in conjunction with our 2015 budget the exit out of this year and entrance into next year along with the longer-term look towards our updating of the 5-year plan that's something that we're actively looking at.
We'll give a lot more detail and color on that at Investor Day.
Inc</strong> Okay great.
And then my last question is just the question of -- the hand completions I think you've mentioned were more targeted towards the more frontier areas and you're going to pull back to maybe drilling more of the more known areas.
Have you seen based on the results you've seen so far have you seen a difference in the performance of those enhanced completions in the more proven areas versus frontier areas? And I apologize if that was answered already.
I can comment on that.
First of all the completion analysis we're doing the testings we're doing is spread out through all our areas.
And what I was trying to emphasize was our drilling locations were making the shift from HBP in the edges towards developing our areas of more pad drilling in our best areas first.
So that's what differentiates those 2.
Thank you everyone for joining our call this morning.
If you have additional follow-up certainly myself and Warren will be available.
That concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Continental Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Richard and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
John Kilgallon Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kilgallon you may begin.
Thanks Richard and good morning and welcome to the Continental Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me on the call today with prepared remarks is the company's Founder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Harold Hamm; Jack Stark our President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Also available during the Q&amp;A session are various members of the senior management team which include Jeff Hume; Vice Chairman of Strategic Initiatives; Gary Gould Senior Vice President of Operations; Jose Bayardo Senior Vice President of Business Development; Glen Brown Senior Vice President of Exploration; Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land; and Warren Henry Vice President of Research and Policy.
Let me remind you that today's call may contain forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these risk -- statement and risk.
Also in the call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the generally accepted accounting principles please refer to our third quarter 2014 earnings press release issued yesterday.
With that I will turn it over to Harold.
Thanks John.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us on our earnings call.
Continental has tremendous portfolio of high rate of return assets in both the Bakken and SCOOP plays.
We have a clear line of sight and realize the value of these assets and we are prioritizing our activity based on returns.
We're extremely excited about our new oil discovery the Springer oil play in Oklahoma.
Our results continue to be exceptional as evidenced by our October 23 press release which highlighted 4 recent completions with various IPs of nearly 1 500 Boe per day with an average oil cut of approximately 79%.
We delivered solid results in the third quarter with production above 182 000 Boe per day.
We grew production an impressive 9% over our second quarter 2014 and 29% over third quarter 2013.
Increased production was driven by our continued success in the Bakken through continued optimization of enhanced completions and artificial lift and the additional Springer activity and SCOOP.
Production remains robust.
The October production rate averaged in an excess of 187 000 Boe per day.
And as a result we are on track to exit the year at 200 000 Boe per day.
I would also like to highlight our recent strategic announcement a joint venture with SK E&amp;S in our Northwest Cana Woodford Shale.
SK E&amp;S is a subsidiary of SK Group one of the largest conglomerates in South Korea.
The transaction brought in approximately $90 million of cash upfront in addition to a $270 million drilling carry which will be utilized over the next 5 years.
The deal allows us to drill in the primary dry gas field at advantaged return and further HBP the asset.
Lastly let me give you some brief commentary on the current commodity price outlook and Continental's response.
Our view ultimately comes back to global supply and demand which in my opinion has not fundamentally changed in the past 3 months.
Certainly not enough to justify a sell-off in Brent and WTI that has occurred.
The forward discussion continues to be centered on international political wrangling and price changes not demand destruction.
In my opinion it's great buying opportunity for equities and strong well-capitalized E&amp;P producers.
An adjustment in CapEx is called for as we believe the recent pullback in oil prices will ultimately prove to be beneficial to Continental in many ways.
First a slower growth rate in our operating areas will allow us to further improve our operating efficiencies and lower well cost.
Second slower domestic oil production growth will allow global demand to keep pace at lower oil prices per demand growth and avoid an oversupply of crude oil long term in the future.
Thirdly we do expect crude oil prices to strengthen to the mid-80s or $90 range over the short term.
Given our belief that the recent pullback in oil prices will be short-lived we made changes to our existing hedge book by monetizing practically all of our oil contracts for the remainder of the year and for 2015 and 2016.
Although we expect oil prices to recover we felt it sensible to adjust our 2015 guidance until we realized higher prices.
We do plan to maintain roughly 50 rigs for 2015 and have prioritized our areas by rate of return balancing CapEx and production which high-grade our 2015 drilling program.
As a result our revised capital budget for 2015 is $4.6 billion.
We believe our adjustment allows us to prudently adapt to current prices while generating strong growth and preserving our ability to respond as prices recover.
Let me remind you this company has a very strong financial foundation and a drilling program with approximately 50 rigs allowing us to maintain our momentum established in the second half of 2014 and to 2015.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jack Stark.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us today.
As Harold mentioned we put up solid numbers again this quarter and I am extremely proud of the team's effort.
This is the second consecutive quarter where we grew production more than 14 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day demonstrating the quality of our assets and the excellent execution by our teams.
I'll start the operations update in the southern region and focus on the Springer oil play.
I can say we are very pleased with the results.
In fact I can't recall a play that delivered such repeatability so early in its development.
We feel this bodes well for the future of our Springer play.
To date Continental has announced 15 producing wells in the oil fairway of Springer with an average 24-hour initial rate of 1 230 barrels of oil equivalent per day at an average 30-day IP of 830 barrels of oil per day.
All of these wells were drilled with approximately 4 500-foot laterals at an average cost of $9.7 million per well.
Our reserve model for the play currently stands at 940 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well for a 4 500-foot lateral which provides an 84% rate of return at $80 oil and $3.50 gas.
To further improve these recoveries and economics of the play we'll begin drilling our first 7 500-foot extended lateral in the Springer in a few weeks.
We estimate a 7 500-foot lateral will recover 1.6 million barrels of oil equivalent at a cost of $12.1 million which delivers over 100% rate of return at $80 oil and $3.50 gas.
We currently have 10 rigs drilling in the Springer and 6 of these are drilling our first 2 density pilots.
We plan to keep an average of 8 rigs drilling in the Springer play throughout 2015.
Turning to the Northern region.
Our Bakken production grew an impressive 12% or 13 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day over the second quarter of 2014 reflecting the excellent job being done by our operations group.
It also reflects the results of our enhanced completions and a growing concentration of drilling in high rate of return areas.
Our enhanced completion program continues to deliver very encouraging results as well.
Since Investor Day we expanded our enhanced completion analysis to include industry-wide results as well as our own operated results.
The study now includes over 300 wells and approximately 1/3 of these wells have over 1 year of production.
As expected results show that slickwater and hybrid enhanced completions provide the best results and on average generate a significant uplift in early-time rates.
Of even greater significance our analysis shows that these high rates are being sustained which translates to increase the EURs.
Where we have the most complete data set we have seen an average production uplift of approximately 45% in the first 90 days and an estimated 30% increase in EUR based on early-time projections.
Looking forward we expect to get similar results as these on at least 40% of our acreage based on the geology and data we have on hand.
So what does this translate to in terms of EUR? The average projected EUR for our 2015 operated Bakken Three Forks drilling program is approximately 700 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well.
This is a blended average from our budgeted development and step-out drilling activities and includes the uplift we expect to receive from 30-stage enhanced completions.
Our average cost per well is $9.6 million which delivers a 40% rate of return at $80 oil and $3.50 gas.
Note that our average cost per well has decreased $400 000 from our previous guidance of $10 million per well.
This reflects our decision to reduce the number of high-cost 40-stage completions scheduled for 2015.
So these results demonstrate the quality of our Bakken assets and the upside potential that exists from continuing advancements in technology.
The results also gives enough support to say that our net unrisked Bakken resource potential contains at least 8 years of drilling inventory averaging 775 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well or 20 years of drilling inventory averaging 600 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well at our current run rate.
To summarize we have an exceptional inventory of high rate of return wells to drill over the next 2 decades.
And as technology improves and efficiencies build the value of this inventory will surely continue to grow.
With that I will turn it over to John.
Thank you Jack.
And good morning to everyone.
We are pleased to announce another strong quarter.
Third quarter EBITDAX totaled $948 million an increase of $80 million or 9% over the 2014 second quarter.
Our cash margins of $51.26 per barrel or 74% continue to be impressive.
We ended the quarter with $152 million in cash and we are currently undrawn on our credit facility.
We are in a very strong financial position with ample liquidity and remain committed to maintaining our strong credit metrics and investment-grade classification.
As I mentioned on the last call the higher oil differentials did continue into the third quarter and oil net realization was outside our annual guidance forecast.
We finished the quarter with a $11.77 differential for oil and a positive $1.04 differential for natural gas.
On a year-to-date basis we are still within the guidance range for both oil at $10.60 and natural gas at a positive $1.28 and we expect to remain so for the year as a whole.
For the third quarter our operating costs were in line with guidance or better with lease operating expense at $5.80 DD&amp;A at $21.65 and cash G&amp;A at $1.82 per Boe reflecting our focus on cost.
On June 3 we announced that we were going to redeem all of our outstanding 8 1/4% senior notes due October 1 of 2019.
The redemption date occurred on July 11 and resulted in a pretax loss of $24 million.
The call of these 8 1/4% notes was financed by proceeds from our 3.8% offering in May and effectively lowers our ongoing financing cost.
This nonrecurring charge was excluded from the adjusted EPS calculation.
As Harold mentioned we have lifted substantially all of our oil hedges for the remainder of the year 2015 and for 2016.
In doing so Continental realized approximately $433 million of proceeds in the fourth quarter.
We expect oil prices to rise and elected to lock in gains and pull the cash forward.
At the same time we have an adaptable capital program.
We have adjusted our 2015 capital program to reflect current prices yet remain positioned to adapt with higher prices.
We now expect production to grow 23% to 29% in 2015.
Compared to our original plan we are reducing capital by $600 million or 12%.
And at the same time we brought in nearly $520 million in proceeds from hedge monetizations and the Northwest Cana JV.
This amounts to a $1.1 billion overall improvement in liquidity versus prior plans and is a prime example of our ability to be adaptive the flexibility of our asset base and our disciplined financial approach.
For the fourth quarter we are almost entirely hedged for natural gas at an average price of $4.20.
For 2015 we are hedged approximately 1/3 for natural gas at an average price of $4.34.
We will continuously monitor market conditions and may choose to increase hedge positions at opportune times.
We are very excited about our joint venture with SK in our Northwest Cana assets.
This transaction is the first time the company has entered into a business relationship with a foreign company to codevelop an area.
Our Northwest Cana dry gas assets have previously not garnered capital when compared to the Bakken and SCOOP given recent commodity prices.
These assets still have enormous potential for future cash flow generation.
Bringing in SK with its long-term investment horizon allows us to jointly develop this asset at a steady and consistent pace.
This JV brings together 2 high-quality companies that are very well aligned from a strategic standpoint.
We have committed to keeping 4 rigs in this area which will provide 15 to 20 gross wells per year over the course of the next 5 years.
We estimate that specific to our Northwest Cana assets we will remain cash flow positive from now through the entire 5-year drilling commitment based on current natural gas prices.
The Northwest Cana carry will reduce our CapEx from what it would otherwise be required to develop these assets.
Now we'll be glad to take any questions that you may have.
With that I'll turn it back over to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question online comes from Mr.
Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if I could take my full quota of 2 please.
I guess someone has to ask this Harold your decision to liquidate the hedges.
I'm just curious if you can give us a little bit more color as to how the board had the confidence to authorize that and whether or not you had any consultation with the credit agencies in making that decision.
And perhaps just a little bit of color as to -- it's quite a bold call obviously.
And I have a follow-up please.
Well good question.
Well first of all we didn't have any contact with credit agencies.
This -- we've got a great board here at Continental.
And we took this to the board and made a determination to go ahead and liquidate at those prices.
Feel like that's the bottom.
And certainly going forward understanding what our competition is and the prices they need to receive in international periods particularly with OPEC members we feel like we're at the bottom rung here on prices and we'll see them recover pretty drastically pretty quick.
So getting by the OPEC November 27 meeting I think that's going to be a revelation in itself.
But we feel good about what we've done with prices.
Research Division</strong> Obviously we have no idea what the outcome of the OPEC meeting is going to be.
So I'm -- what do you see as a catalyst to put a floor under the price obviously given you've taken this move? No doubt they -- I mean what we're dealing with here is a renaissance that's going to be very long-lasting here in the U.S.
And we see OPEC worried about that and want to slow down what we're doing over here.
So that's really the backdrop we have.
And so my thought is if they slow it down a little bit it's probably going to be good for everybody and let world -- global demand pick up over the next couple of years to match the growth that we have here in the U.S.
and will have for many years going forward.
So probably overall that may be very well -- may very well -- we may all be well served by what's happening even though we're not looking probably at it that way right now.
But to -- I see price improving I see price improving to $85 $90 range just like I've been saying all along.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is more -- I guess more on the assets.
Maybe this one is for Jack.
But as far as the SCOOP/Springer Jack it looks like we see a little bit more of a gassy mix coming out of the SCOOP earlier this year with higher rates.
It seems to be slowed down a little bit but it seems to be a little more oily.
So I'm wondering if you could help us with how the development plan is shifting in the SCOOP.
And then maybe as part of the same answer I guess the Springer is in the same area.
Is there any update you can give us on the inventory? Just 10 rigs on a full year inventory seems a little aggressive.
So -- and I'll leave it there please.
Well the -- the oil gas mix in the SCOOP area is going to vary depending on where we place rigs.
You're exactly right.
In the Woodford you've got the transition play going from oil to gas and we're focusing in the oil and gas condensate window there.
And so we have -- and then in the Springer the area we're focusing on is really just the oil window at this point.
We're not pushing out too far to the West yet looking at the gas or the condensate and say a gas window there.
And so I think that Springer play right now you can expect for 2015 it's going to be an oil play.
And the Woodford play itself you can expect that we're going to have a good mix.
Right now we have the density pilots going on in both the gas the condensate and the oil window and we're attacking both the oil and the condensate window together.
Research Division</strong> But Jack is there any color you can add on the scale of the inventory in the Springer I guess is what I was getting at? Because 10 rigs from what you told us I think it puts you on a full-year drawing backlog.
So sure.
I understand that.
Really Doug we're just in the very beginning on the Springer here.
The inventory that we put out there is based on like 46 000 net acres and we've got another 72 000 net acres we're exploring into.
So that was an area that we consider to be derisked.
And we're expanding out into that and that's just in the oil window.
We've got 200 000 acres total.
And so the -- you could see that oil window inventory double easily in my mind.
And we're doing a density test right now 2 of them actually to get a good handle on what density we can drill.
So that inventory that you're looking at is a snapshot of what we really -- we're going to have in the future.
This play is -- the play is for real it's already showing great repeatability as I said.
And the beauty of this is too is what -- I don't think a lot of people realize that all of the Woodford wells that have been drilled actually have cut through the Woodford.
So this thing is not -- is much -- it is probably the least speculative play I've had the opportunity to drill in because we already have a well about every mile out here and so -- because the Springer is above the Woodford.
And so as you drill to the Woodford you're always getting a free look at it basically.
And so we know where it's at.
We can map it out.
And so I think you can continue to expect good things coming out of the Springer.
Our next question online comes from Drew Venker from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could provide a little bit more color on the Bakken inventory figure that you mentioned on spacing and productive zones and anything else you might think is pertinent.
Sure.
I'm glad you asked that.
Because just I think probably just -- get this the inventory out there and kind of discuss this again we're really been showing our resource potential in the inventory.
What we're trying to do is we're really trying to do 2 things.
First is we're trying to show the resource potential across all of our acreage from the core out to the fringe okay? And that's the one thing.
And then two we're trying to show you give you -- show you the quality of that inventory in a short-term and kind of a long-term perspective.
And so the short-term perspective is is if we were to drill nothing but our core areas you'd be looking at 8 years at 775 MBoe average.
But on a longer term which is more representative of the type of blend that we would drill we've got a 20-year inventory of 600 MBoe average per well.
And so what are we going to drill? And if you're looking at your models and looking short term what do you put in? I think our 700 MBoe program that we're talking about this year for 2015 is a really good representation of what we can expect to drill going forward here for the next I don't know 10 years.
So that's really -- we're trying to provide color and some clarity on our inventory and we're -- and I expect we're going to continue to see increases in EURs out here as technology advances.
And so right now this is a snapshot of what we know.
And we would've shared this at the Investor Day but we just didn't have enough information.
Our teams when I said that our teams had worked very hard to incorporate all industry activity as well as our own.
I mean they have done that.
And they've got another 1.5 months of production plus they incorporated well over 300 wells in this study.
And so to me the -- at Investor Day we just wanted a place when we said there was 8 years of over 600 MBoe average.
We just couldn't put that 775 MBoe out there because we just didn't have enough evidence and confidence.
But we have substantially increased our database and so that's why we're able to come out with it at this time.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Jack.
On the way you're planning to add -- allocate capital you said on a return to basis the conventional wisdom would tell you all else being equal higher EURs translates to higher returns.
Can you help us as you think about the core you said 775 MBoe on average versus the 700 MBoe you expect for your 2015 program is there some other dynamics that maybe changes the return profile versus the EURs? Yes there are a number of factors that we looked at.
We certainly looked at our positions into various areas.
We looked at the wells that we were drilling and the EURs.
But then beyond that we have to look at infrastructure how many rigs we can have in a particular area takeaway capacity the service various other services are set up and established.
So we went in with a view towards balancing all of those while factoring in the level of spend to reduce that but also maintaining a high production rate.
So what you get for backing off as much capital as we did we still have a very attractive growth rate for next year.
That's a good indication to Jack's earlier point about the quality of our assets and how well we can grow.
We've got a lot of scalability in this program we continue to have that.
And for -- $2 billion is a good maintenance capital number to have year-over-year flat levels of production.
So there's a lot of scalability between those numbers and we try to balance all of that.
Our next question online comes from Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Thanks for the color on the EURs the update here.
Just following up on that would the 8 years of 775 000 Boe EURs I'm assuming enhanced completions is it fair to use that $9.6 million well cost number? Or do you think we should use something a little bit lower? Yes that $9.6 million is appropriate for that particular EUR.
The $9.6 million that we're using are based on static costs that we've seen right now.
And so as you know we've just started these completion tests between our own engineers and our field folks and our contractors.
And over time as we continue to work on these more standard completions that we're narrowing down to in the hybrids and the slickwaters I expect there can be more cost reductions as we execute more efficiently.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my follow-up if oil prices were to weaken further what level of HBP drilling requirements do you have that could influence the minimum amount of rigs that you need to run in the Bakken and the SCOOP? The Bakken is largely HBP-ed within the accounted delineated area that we've shown on the map.
It's in slides.
It's in the 90% 95% range.
Some of that fringe acreage is pretty closer to 70%.
So we're in a pretty good -- really good position in the Bakken.
And in the SCOOP play we can walk through that in the term and HBP that over the next 2 or 3 years at a substantially lower rig rate than we're at today.
So I think we see both of those with our -- in our vision and don't have a near-term pressure.
Certainly in 2015 we don't have a lot of pressure.
In addition to that in the SCOOP majority of our leases provide for automatic extensions at extremely reasonable prices.
So if we get in a bind we can always rely on that.
In addition we have top lease protection language.
We're really covered with our leasehold in SCOOP and the Bakken.
Our next question online comes from Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe kind of to follow on the cost side in the Bakken you're already down to $9.6 million.
Can you talk about what that savings is? And then you always have these internal goals of declining that even further.
Can you maybe talk about things that you're looking to do that could improve the cost even further? Sure.
That reduction from what was talked about earlier in Investor Day of $10 million we were testing 40-stage jobs within that $10 million cost estimates as well as the 30-stage jobs.
And so far this year we've got over 50 tests that we're headed toward with 40 stages.
And so we're planning to evaluate those see how those perform.
And if those provide incremental economics we'll make decisions based on those.
But going forward what we're looking at is 30-stage jobs already proven with this incremental production as described earlier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe one follow-up.
The Ears Back program I mean you kind of blow in and go in.
Is there another area that is close to that sort of development in the Bakken? We have an area called our Williston area.
It's very highly productive and we're concentrating a lot of rigs there also.
Research Division</strong> And where is that located? It's just on the West side of the anticline.
Yes.
In Williams McKenzie County.
Our next question online comes from Mr.
Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> What oil price for 2015 have you configured your revised budget for? You mentioned you expect WTI can go to the mid-80s to $90 a barrel.
If and when that happens do you revert to your prior budget? Or if oil prices fall from here given that you're now less hedged would a further change be warranted? We've modeled in current prices.
So we're at an $80 WTI is in the current $4.6 billion model.
We have a very expansive inventory.
We certainly have that opportunity to expand but I wouldn't expect us to change near term.
We want to see the recovery and we want to capture those benefits that Harold laid out in his script focus on efficiency and cost in our area.
And we're growing at a rather attractive growth rate with the current budget.
So if we see a good recovery in 6 to 9 months.
We'll look at it.
But for the near term the $4.6 billion we'd laid out is where we're going to stay.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And as a follow-up I wanted to pick up on some of the EUR commentary as a bit of a follow-up to Pearce Hammond's earlier question when you talk about having 20 years of 600 000 Boe EURs in the Bakken does that contemplate enhanced completions across the portfolio? Or is it a blend of EURs without enhanced completions and with enhanced completions? And can you talk about that split if so? It includes enhanced completions.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the other way to look...
I think that includes the 25% uplift.
Research Division</strong> Across the entire portfolio i.e.
you would only be using enhanced completions with the higher cost in that 20-year inventory? That is correct.
And 95% of what we're doing next year includes enhanced completions.
That's where we're seeing the biggest bang for our buck.
It also factors in that we've got enough there inventory in the areas where we've seen the uplift benefit.
So we've got plenty of running room there for that 20-year period.
Our next question online comes from Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Guys could you speak to your SCOOP production levels in the third quarter? It looks like your growth there kind of slowed down despite the fact that you had a lot of wells.
I guess roughly 20 net wells it looks like were completed.
Is there anything going on there in terms of infrastructure limitations or potentially delays in well completions that caused your growth to slow there in 3Q? Yes.
Leo that kind of stands out but that's really just a timing issue.
And right now what this month between...
40 000.
What was it the month of October we averaged 40 000.
Exactly.
So you can see it's jumped up about 4 000 barrels a day.
So it's coming on.
It's just that there's -- some of these oil wells come on a little bit lower rate initially and they clean up.
And then with pads and timing that's what's really affecting it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful for sure.
I guess just in terms of oil diffs you guys talked about seeing a little bit wider diff here in the third quarter.
Can you give us an update on what you've been seeing recently on your oil diffs there in the Bakken and kind of what your expectations are heading into 2015? That's a great question Leo.
What we're going to see is the diffs pushing back down and we're getting more pipe access out of the Bakken that's going to improve that.
We're going to have better connection on the SCOOP barrels into Cushing.
We found very good market.
The Springer oil has really lit up the market in the Mid-Continent for that oil.
They love that oil and so we're getting good competition for that oil.
The pipelines that's delivering oil into the Cushing market you're getting a pure Bakken barrel into that market and it's going to be pulling a very good price.
It's got strong demand.
It's much better quality than a blended WTI equivalent.
So we should see the number we saw in the third quarter start improving immediately and get very -- much better get back into our lower part of our range hopefully by middle of next year.
Our next question online comes from Phillips Johnston from Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you about your growth profile throughout next year.
If we look at 2014 you've had very strong sequential growth in every quarter of the year so it sort of sets up a pretty easy comp for the '15 average versus the '14 average to where you -- even if you kept volumes flat throughout the year at the 200 000 exit rate you'd probably still post around 15% growth.
So given that and also just the fact that the cut to CapEx is likely probably going to have more of an impact on production in the second half of '15 rather than the first half my question is can you give us a sense for where you expect your '15 exit rate will be versus the 200 000 exit rate for this year? We haven't guided to the exit rate for '15 but let me give you a little color there.
I agree holding flat at 200 000 would give you about a 15% growth next year.
To give you a little color on that that'd be a CapEx somewhere in the $2.7 billion range across the company.
That's another way we look at maintenance capital.
Earlier I gave you holding 0% growth year-over-year is around $2 billion but holding at that exit would be in that genre.
What we see next year as currently modeled we're seeing fairly consistent growth next year throughout the year.
Obviously the shifting of pads or timing if we had any shifting of those that could impact that.
Pads do have an impact on that production.
But we currently see pretty consistent growth throughout the year so you're exiting at an exit rate that's substantially higher say 40 000 a day higher than where we are today.
I'm not giving that as guidance because we do shift around but your modeling is going to indicate somewhere in those ranges.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just to follow up on the hedges.
If we assume oil prices do recover from here at what price would you consider re-hedging some of your production for '15 and maybe hedge some of your '16 volumes as well? Well we -- obviously a lot of talk back out there for eventual hedging opportunities in the $100 barrel range again.
And certainly we would hope to see that that we could reset those.
And that would be nice in the next few years.
And recognize we look at Brent and WTI on our hedging just because of we're selling production so we would look at both of those and you can have some variability.
You've seen the average prices that we were hedged at before and as you start to move into those areas it becomes more attractive.
We're looking for areas that we think are indicative of the pricing environment going forward.
Our next question comes from Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
With the change to the production guidance for next year can we still consider the 5-year target of tripling production reserves? Can we still consider that intact? And I think at the Analyst Day the thinking was that you might get there with production by the end of '16.
Yes we remodeled that.
We've looked at it.
Really doesn't have a material impact on our 5-year plans as in terms of achieving that goal.
We think we're still on track.
What we've indicated at Investor Day is we saw that pulling forward a year into late 2016.
Our current model still shows us on track.
I would maybe say we were in the -- we expect to achieve that triple in late '16 early '17.
But again just to clarify right now we still see us on track for late '16.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And with the production growth that we saw for third quarter I noticed that Montana actually had a pretty hefty sequential increase.
I think it was about 15% increase in volumes over second quarter.
Was just that related to pad drilling you had going on there and a lot of stuff coming on all at once? Or is there another factor in there? It's just natural fluctuation of how we allocate rigs out there.
We're doing various tests -- have done various tests in North Dakota and Montana.
Going forward we're going to have probably a lot more focus in North Dakota in the coming year.
Our next question online comes from Joe Allman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the EUR uplift.
So I think your 775 000 Boe EUR assumes a 25% uplift from the completion modifications.
Does that assume that the kind of early production is a higher uplift versus the baseline? Because typically we see the EUR uplift lower than the early production uplift.
Right.
That assumes just a shift up in the type curve.
And so you've heard the numbers we've seen so far as far as having a larger 25% 30% uplift we've seen a 45% uplift with our test.
And so we think there's some additional upside there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to clarify.
So do you think that the early production uplift would match the overall EUR uplift? So in other words just on a blended basis the early production 30- 60- 90-day plus early production uplift will be roughly 25% and therefore the EUR will be 25%.
Or do you think overall...
Overall we think the production uplift in the early days will be more than later.
And that's for 2 reasons.
One is the data that we've already shown and reflected earlier in Jack's comments where we've seen 45% production uplift along with a 30% EUR increase.
And then the second part would be part of what we're doing is not only the completion uplift but we're also working with higher volume artificial lift.
And so when we do that that accelerates part of it forward.
So that's an additional benefit to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on your change in the CapEx budget the table at the end of the press release is very helpful the change from the prior budget and where the changes are.
But how about from the current level of activity could you just describe for us what's going to happen in terms of rig count in various areas between now and 2015? Okay.
We've -- what we're doing in the '15 CapEx budget is we're going to hold rigs fairly constant with where we're at today.
So in the SCOOP area for next year we're going to average 26 rigs.
We're right at 26 27 today.
We had more than that a few weeks ago but we're starting to shift rigs into Northwest Cana with the JV.
So we expect to have 4 rigs in there.
In the Bakken we're shifting some rigs out of Montana.
And then we're shifting some rigs out of the -- out of the broader extents of the play and coming in -- back into some of the areas we're talking about.
The Bakken we expect to go from 22 rigs average in the original budget down to 19.
And that's kind of the general working range that we've been in the Bakken.
Research Division</strong> So John give me that again.
So where are you now in the Bakken and where you're going to be in 2015? Right now we're at about 22 rigs in the Bakken.
We're going to be at 19 next year.
Our next question online comes from Eric Otto from CLSA Americas.
Our next question comes from Dan Guffey from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Guys you did a really good job at your Analyst Day kind of walking through the Bakken petroleum system and laying out 4 different zones throughout the basin.
With dropping 3 rigs you're moving to 19 into next year.
It looks like 3 have been dropped from kind of fringier areas.
So all 19 are going to be running kind of in the Tier 1 and Tier 2 acreage.
I guess what drives your decision to allocate capital to that Tier 1? Why not focus entirely on the core where you think you have maximum overpressure and also structure? Well we continue to prioritize our drilling schedule according to rate of return.
And so that's what drives it.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the 40-stage completions that you've tested over 50 should we have a decision do you think by next quarter? Or will you need to see longer-term production data before you decide to maybe return to that 40-stage completion design? I think that we'll give a lot these in the Q where we can monitoring production in the first quarter late first quarter probably next year in the second quarter.
So maybe mid-year next year we'll start having a good enough perspective.
I mean you know what we've done on the 30 stages.
We were patient and wanted to make sure we've got some information before we did any adjustments to our EURs.
And so we're going to do the same there.
So I don't see us really being confident enough to say much until probably mid-year next year about the 40s.
Our next question online comes from Paul Grigel from Macquarie.
Just in regards to service pricing outlook.
Obviously given the pullback have you guys had any discussions or have there been any ongoing in terms of renegotiating service pricing going forward? Yes.
We have begun those discussions.
And certainly with the pricing changes that we've had besides seeing cost reduction in the future from some better execution from ourselves and our operations we expect to see some cost reductions also from our contractors.
As it goes right now there's still a lot of demand out there as some of the rig activity and completion actively hasn't changed much.
But we have begun those discussions with our vendors.
And then just another strategic kind of follow-up here.
In terms of acquisitions more specifically to acreage be it either in the SCOOP or up in the Williston Basin in a let's say a downtrodden price environment moving forward what's the appetite for potentially adding acreage? Well we've had a good appetite for acquiring acreage.
I think it's too soon for any meaningful changes happening out there in the industry.
We've not seen fire sales yet so we'll just have to see how that plays out.
We do control a lot of our destiny here in SCOOP and same way in the Bakken.
So there's going to be opportunities and we'll monitor those.
Our next question online comes from Marshall Carver from Heikkinen Energy.
LLC</strong> Yes.
So my first question is is the addition of rigs in the gassier Northwest Cana change your expectation to oil gas mix in '15? Or is it still likely 69% to 70% oil? Still in the same range.
It doesn't change it.
We've factored it in when we were looking at it previously and giving some viewpoints on that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then second question...
Additionally we had some existing production with that where we sold -- obviously they acquired a 50% interest in what we had.
So we actually sold some of our gas production and the drilling will just build back a portion of that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And second question we've heard that the Springer is difficult to drill.
Would you say that's a fair characterization? And can you compare and contrast the drilling days for the Springer versus the Woodford? We've heard that from some other operators.
We've not had much difficulty ourselves with Springer.
It was maybe 1 or 2 instances but our people getting the job done.
We're very proud of the operation we have out there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
What were the -- are there any specifics you could share with the 1 or 2 instances? Well it's a -- you know a lot of things can bite you here we're operating at some pretty good depths.
This is big boy drilling as we call it.
And so normally the staff that wouldn't be a problem at 12 000 plus could be.
But our guys are up to it and we have good people we've got the best equipment.
So I think our folks are getting it down and making a lot of good progress in this area.
So just we don't have any one thing that's caused us a lot of issues.
Our last question comes from Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is with John Hart.
John you were going through some capital numbers that would either keep production flat or grow production.
And just to clarify so you said $2.7 billion in capital would give you 15% year-over-year growth so that would be '15 over '14? Let me give you those numbers again just to make sure we're clear.
There are different ways to look at maintenance capital.
One is you're looking at just year-over-year total production.
With our growth rate quarter-upon-quarter sequentially and with the steepness of that curve you get a different answer looking at year-over-year production versus your exit rate.
So year-over-year to hold total production flat somewhere in the $2 billion range.
If you look to what we are -- our exit rate for the year which we've indicated we expect to be 200 000 a day.
Holding that 200 000 flat would be about $2.7 billion of capital that that would require.
The difference between that exit rate in that annual production those 2 numbers that's about a 15% growth rate.
And John there are no more questions in the queue.
Well thank you everyone for joining our call today.
If you have further follow-up please let myself or Warren Henry know.
That concludes our call.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Year End 2014 Continental Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Richard and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the call over to John Kilgallon Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Kilgallon you may begin.
Thank you Richard and good morning and welcome to the Continental Resources Fourth Quarter and Year End 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today with prepared remarks is the Company's Founder Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Harold Hamm; our President and Chief Operating Officer Jack Stark; and our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer John Hart.
Also during the call this morning joining us for Q&amp;A will be Gary Gould Senior Vice President of Operations and Jeff Hume; Vice Chairman of Strategic Initiatives among others.
Let me remind you that today's call will contain forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risk.
Also in the call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the general accepted accounting principles please refer to the updated fourth quarter and full year summary presentation that was posted on our Web site at www.clr.com yesterday evening.
With that I will turn it over to Harold.
Thanks John and thank you all for joining us today everybody.
I know the majority of the attention that would be to our 2015 plans and our ability to adjust and adapt to the current lower oil prices but there is several accomplishments I want to touch on first that are important to all of us that here at Continental and our shareholders.
First yet again in 2014 the company delivered solid production and proved reserve growth growing production 28% and proved reserve 25%.
I want to complement our entire team here in Continental for delivering big results this quarter.
Along with continued growth we also made considerable progress in delineating our SCOOP Woodford play which is finally getting reserved attention from numerous external analysts investors and consultants due to its very strong returns.
Also in 2014 we announced another SCOOP milestone the second prolific producing formation SCOOP the Springer oil discovery.
Before announcing this play we captured the valuable core leasehold of basin at first mover advantage prices we have successfully drilled over 30 Springer wells and the process of further delineating play now.
SCOOP has matured from a very promising exploratory area to a standalone core asset nicely complimenting our viable Bakken asset.
SCOOP accounts for approximately 21% of our total production up 0% just three years ago.
We proved its validity as another growth platform driven by the basin with strong execution of our exploration and operations teams.
Also in 2014 we further delineated America's crude oil field the Bakken where production averages 85% light sleek crude.
The balance is 15% natural gas with a high average Btu content of 14/50.
With proved deliverability and multiple horizons and also applied advanced drilling and completion techniques to expand and increase historical EURs per well.
Lastly we help thank our new pipeline infrastructure in the Bakken to increase takeaway capacity and provide fixed transportation rates which should lay long-term lower differential and higher realize process to the company.
Our performance in 2014 demonstrates world class caliber had both our teams and our assets.
The operational innovations of our teams enhanced completions and artificial lift application as well as utilization of extended lateral sales help maximize recovery.
Their talent technical expertise and dedication help crack their completions code.
The experience and knowledge we obtained in last year sets to stay for an even better 2015 has we got efficiencies throughout the system.
As we move on to 2015 I want to compliment our industry for their prompt response to today's low oil price environment reducing 2015 CapEx on an average about 35% to 40% with over 50 billion in capital reductions announced so far.
The industry wide the rig count has already dropped over 30% since year-end 2014 and is continuing to head lower.
These actions will accelerate rebouncing of strong demand and facilitate recovery to more rational prices in the future.
In the meantime with Continental we are focused on protecting our balance sheet and maintaining our financial strength.
Our 2015 budget has been adjusted to target near term cash flow neutrality.
We have plenty of liquidity and are well positioned to adapt to market conditions.
A large percentage of our key assets are held by production with remainder having considerable term and/or protection by contractual provisions.
So we can defer a significant amount of activity to await a better commodity price environment and lower oil field service cost.
For example in the Bakken we have deferred first quarter 2015 completions by 25% versus our previously planned levels of activity.
We anticipate individual well returns will likely improve these oil field service cost in them.
We also expect to achieve efficiency gains across the board that will pay dividends to years to come.
Lastly I'd like to mention enormous amount of work currently being done and support uplifting the 1970s press control era ban on crude oil exports from the United States.
This is a good environment to make progress on this and I'm highly optimistic we will get there and make this happen.
Recently when asked about lifting this ban on Monday Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin approved and said he was open to discussion.
This could be accomplished by executives order and happen very quickly.
Thank you for your time and interest in Continental.
Now I'll turn the call over to Jack Stark.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
Appreciate you being on the call with us today.
As Harold mentioned 2014 was another solid year growth for us as we achieved record production and improved reserves.
We also made great headway on several fronts.
For starters SCOOP really proved itself as another major platform of growth for the company representing 21% of our fourth quarter production and 27% of our proved reserves at year-end 2014.
During the fourth quarter SCOOP production averaged 40 400 barrels of oil equivalent a day up 70% of our fourth quarter 2013.
The year-end 2014 SCOOP proved reserves stood at 370 million barrels of oil equivalent which preferred for our prospective is essentially equivalent to the company's proved reserves at year-end 2010.
As announced we had some excellent Woodford and Springer completions in SCOOP during the fourth quarter.
In the Woodford we had a record setting completion in the Oceana well located in Stevens county.
The Oceana well floated a maximum 24-hour rate of 20.7 million cubic feet of gas equivalent from 9 200 foot lateral.
Approximately 20 miles to the southeast we completed the Cana well with a maximum 24-hour flow rate of 11 million cubic feet of gas a day and 518 barrels of oil per day from a 9500 foot Woodford lateral.
In the Springer the Schoof and Martha Skid wells located in central Grady County produced at a maximum 24 hour rate of 1 465 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 935 barrels of oil equivalent a day respectively.
Approximately 20 miles to the southeast the Lyle Land and length over the wells had maximum 24-hour flow rates of 1 135 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 885 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively.
All four wells were approximately 4500 foot laterals and a production averaged about 76% oil.
During the year we also initiated four Woodford and two Springer density tests to accelerate our understanding and the full potential of SCOOP.
Two of those pilots began producing recently specifically the Good Martin and the Hartley unit.
The Good Martin unit was a Woodford oil window density test and included eight wells spaced approximately 660 feet apart.
These wells had an average lateral length of 6 775 feet and an average maximum 24 hour flow rate of 820 barrels of oil equivalent per day per well.
These wells have been producing for approximately one month so it's a bit early to say much except that their producing in line with offset producers and we're very pleased with the results.
The other density tests at Hartley unit was a four well Springer oil window density test with three well spaced 1 055 feet apart and one well 2 110 feet from the nearest well to test the different inner well spacing.
The four wells had an average lateral length of 4 605 feet and an average 24-hour maximum flow rate of 1 185 barrels of oil equivalent per well per day with 72% being oil.
Again the Hartley wells have been producing less than a month but we are encouraged with the early results.
In the Bakken field we expanded technology once again during 2014 by testing various enhanced completion techniques to ensure we are maximizing recovery from the field.
This included higher profit volumes as well as slickwater and hybrid techniques which combines slickwater and crosslink technologies.
We found that the slickwater and hybrid completion techniques both delivered improved economics and recoveries in the central portion of yield particularly in Williams and McKenzie County.
Today we've completed approximately 50 30-stage enhanced completions in Williams and McKenzie Counties utilizing slickwater and hybrid techniques.
36 of these wells have had over 90 days of production.
The performance of these 36 wells and other interesting wells in the area continued to show production uplifts of approximately 30-45 % in the first 90 day rates with a corresponding 25% to 30% increase in EUR.
We have also completed 56 40-stage enhanced completions across various portions of the field using slickwater and hybrid technologies.
Only few of these wells have over 90 days of production so no conclusions have been drawn at this time.
We'll continue to monitor the results from these 40-stage enhanced completions to see if the added investment is warranted.
In the meantime we'll continue on with 30-stage enhanced completions as budgeted for 2015.
So let's turn to 2015.
As previously announced we reduced our 2015 CapEx by approximately 40% to $2.7 billion starting cash flow neutrality by midyear 2015.
This reduction demonstrates the operational flexibility and optionality we have to adjust the market conditions thanks to the high quality of our world class assets in the Bakken and SCOOP.
This budget assumes a decrease 15% in cost on average during the year and we have seen about a 10% reduction in service cost so far and expect to see at least 15% cost-savings by midyear.
As budgeted we are in process of reducing our operating rig count from 50 at year-end 2014 to an average of 31 four 2015.
We currently have 36 operating rigs drilling including 12 in the Bakken 20 in SCOOP and four in northwest Cana.
For the year we plan to average 11 rigs in the Bakken for rigs in northwest Cana and 16 rigs in SCOOP.
Our 16 SCOOP rigs will vary between 10 to 13 rigs in the Woodford and 3 to 6 in the Springer.
In the Bakken our drilling was concentrated in the core of the field targeting an average EUR of 800 MBOE equivalent per well.
Approximately 60% of our drilling in the Bakken we concentrated in Williams and McKenzie County where enhanced completions are delivering improved results.
The remaining 40% will be concentrated in Dunn and Montréal Counties where we're expanding our footprint of enhanced completion techniques.
In SCOOP our drilling where focused on the combination of infield step-out and density locations to further define the potential of this growing asset.
In northwest Cana we'll be focusing on development and step-out drilling as well.
During 2015 we also plan to reduce the number of operated completion crews from 14 year-end 2014 to an average of 8 for 2015.
By doing so we will minimize the volumes produced at today's oil prices and enable us to benefit from the oil markets contango.
In the Bakken we had 10 crews running at year end 2014 added to be down to four crews in early March.
In SCOOP and northwest Cana we are currently operating for crews and expect to keep 2 to 4 crews running through year-end.
Now I should add that we're planning to drill our first well in the second play during 2015 as well.
Although we have not actively pursued this plane to this point we've been monitoring it very closely.
In similar act we recently announced several song completions from wells near an adjacent to our acreage in stack.
Those are great news for Continental and our shareholders as we have what appears to be another significant opportunity of growth and margin underneath our acreage.
So we currently own about 103 000 net acres in Stack and approximately 60% of this is held by production.
So before I turn it over to John Hart our CFO I want to thank all of our employees for the hard work and leadership they put into navigating our company to the market changes we have been experiencing recently.
It's a true testament to the quality and the dedication and commitment of our employees and our shareholders can be sure that our assets are in good hands.
With that I'll turn it over to John.
Thank you Jack.
And good morning to everyone on the call.
As Harold and Jack both mentioned 2014 was an excellent year for us on many fronts with year-over-year production growth of 28% and-full year EBITDAX of almost 3.8 billion which was 33% higher than the full-year 2013.
Net income for full-year 2014 was $977 million.
Our fourth quarter results continue to reflect our commitment to deriving value from our assets.
Our fourth quarter EBITDAX increased 66% over the prior-year coming in at 1.2 billion.
Net income for the fourth quarter was 114 million.
This includes 348 million in pretax proceeds from liquidation of hedges that had original maturities in 2015 and 2016.
An additional 85 million was recognized in the fourth quarter for early settlement at November and December 2014 contracts.
And then we had normal settlements for October in the oil and for our natural gas as well.
Fourth-quarter net income was also impacted by impairment charges of 394 million as discussed in our release.
In addition for fourth quarter 2014 our operating cost where in line or better than guidance with the least operating expense of $5.31 per BOE DD&amp;A at $22.39 and cash G&amp;A of two dollars per BOE.
This is a strong affirmation to our focus on managing cost.
Although our full-year oil and gas differentials were within our annual guidance at a $10.81 differential growth and a positive $1.02 differential for natural gas the dramatic softening in NGL process produced on natural gas differential to a positive $0.35 for the fourth quarter.
We anticipate this softened price for NGL we continue in the near term as it correlates to the price of oil.
As a result we have taken a conservative stance and reduced our 2015 natural gas differential guidance to flat to a negative $0.50.
We do expect less volatility in the oil basis differentials for the Bakken in 2015 as sizable new interstate pipeline capacity and a new 20 000 per day barrel refinery in Dickinson North Dakota becomes available in the spring.
As Jack mentioned as we move forward into 2015 we are taking a proactive approach in adjusting our plans as commodity process have fallen in over the past few months.
It has been and continues to be our intention to maintain our strong balance sheet and financial facility regardless of the pricing environment.
Even though we have recently reduced our CapEx guidance by approximately 40% our production guidance still remains at a strong 16% to 20% fueled by momentum exiting 2014.
We expect 2015 production to rise through midyear and level off in the second half of the year.
This equates to single-digit growth in our year-over-year exit rate.
Looking forward to 2016 we expect we can maintain a growth rate in the mid-single digits with flat CapEx at 2.7 billion so in a sense maintenance CapEx.
Our deepened diverse inventory provides us with a lot of optionality when designing our development plans.
For 2015 our current 2.7 billion CapEx plan was developed with a focus on aligning CapEx to be near discretionary cash flow by midyear 2015.
At the $60 benchmark WTI we would expect to be cash flow neutral by midyear.
At $50 the outspend in the back half of the year would be moderate and around 200 million to 250 million.
Additionally due to a slowdown of completions we are currently under-budget on CapEx yet within our production guidance for the year.
We continue to have one of the strongest cash margins and recycle ratios in the industry.
Our cash margin for the fourth quarter was $35.24 per BOE or 69% of our realized price of $51.11.
For full-year 2014 our cash margin was $48.86 or 73% of our realized price of$66.53.
These strong cash margins are underpinned by a low cash operating cost which runs approximately $16 to $18 per BOE depending on commodity prices.
Our total cash cost including interest was a very respectable $7.67 per BOE in 2014.
And even though realize prices have been coming down so had the cash cost.
In particular production severance tax directly tied to the net realized price received and scales up and down with commodity prices.
Therefore you can expect to see our cash cost per BOE decline allowing us to maintain a strong cash margin.
Our cash margins combined with our low-volume F&amp;D per BOE generate an industry-leading leverage recycle ratio of almost 4 times reflecting just how efficient we are recycling our cash and realized the returns on our invested capital.
On the financing friend we continue to have ample liquidity and no near-term debt maturities allowing us to control how we deploy capital in 2015 and preserve our ability to grow at an accelerated pace when commodity prices increase.
To further enhance our liquidity and to be prudent during this price environment we recently increased the commitments under our unsecured credit facility by 750 million to a total of 2.5 billion and currently have availability of approximately 1.9 billion under that facility.
We have had several questions in this regard so let me clarify that commitments under our unsecured credit facility are not dependent on a borrowing base calculation that is subject to periodic redetermination based on changes in commodity prices and reserves.
We have only one covenant in our credit facility involving of financial ratio.
It requires a consolidated net debt to total capital utilization ratio be no greater than 0.65 to 1.
We continue to be comfortably under this limit and expect to remain so.
You may have seen that Standard &amp; Poor has recently issued a report of their review of 23 oil and gas E&amp;P companies.
Of those 23 companies Continental was the only company whose rating and outlook were reaffirmed.
This is the testament to the financial strength of our company and we believe our proactive response to the downturn in commodity prices has been well-received and provides assurance we will continue to make the right moves to maintain our strong financial position.
We remain committed to maintaining our investment grade rating.
Again let's thank you for joining us on the call today.
Now we will gladly take any questions you may have.
Operator please provide instructions to ask a question thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question on the line comes from Joe Allman from JP Morgan please go ahead.
Jack a quick question for you and then I'll go to a different question.
So you talked about the SCOOP and the Springer down spacing test.
Did you see any communication I know it's early days but did you see any communication and I guess if you don't see any communication I guess the implication will be that it might need a down spacing even further.
It's a great question.
That's what we're trying to demonstrate here.
Joe we've only got 30 days of production max so it's just way too early for any of that.
At this point we have seen some of the tests out here that some other operators have done and I think it's clear that we can 6 to 7 wells in the Woodford are pretty much given in my mind right now depending on the thickness in the area that you're in.
But that seems reasonable and for the Springer we're just blazing trail here.
We are the first to doing the work there not very pleased with the results.
Okay very helpful Jack.
And then a question about the transportation and it's regarding transportation the Bakken -- from the Bakken and from the Anadarko basin as well; can you talk about any changes that you're undergoing recently with the wider Brent WTI differentials? And could you just give us thoughts about the potential for Cushing and the Gulf Coast what could happen there with the current above-average storage? Joe this is Jeff.
The transportation out of the Bakken we have always maintained a good balanced approach or a basket approach where we can move wells either via rail to the East Coast markets in this wider arm really allows for that to take place or there's a strong appetite for the production in both East and West coast via rail so that really helps those refiners show up.
We also have good pipeline infrastructure now.
It's improved with the renewed -- now Kinder Morgan pipeline tied to Pony Express and that expansion coming online.
So we are able to move from market to market and take advantage of wherever that are or whether it's getting water like it is today or it's no early in the months.
So we can move from market to market on that.
Into SCOOP we are close to Cushing we are getting more pipeline access from the field to Cushing and its growing.
Will have better connectivity by midyear probably early May We'll have better connectivity.
We applied to Cushing.
The markets are really strong.
We need to realize that both of these are light sweet crude oils not blended crude oil just meets domestic light sweet spec.
And so they're doubled up pretty quick.
All the refiners want this oil so we have a strong desire for this oil and not having any problem at all marketing it.
To answer the storage at Cushing it is growing a lot it is being fed just by the con tango itself.
There's several dollars per barrel per month that can be made rolling the barrels so you have folks that own the storage over there that have you at least are taking advantage on that buying a barrel and rolling it out several months so you have a con tango play going on.
We are also suffering a little bit of reduction in refinery from turnarounds and the striker is affecting a little bit not much but some of that from the strike.
That will be going away.
We have a very strong crack spread right now.
Its $20-$30 West Coast is $30 Midwest and Gulf is over $20.
And so you're seeing the refiners as they come out of turnaround of spring maintenance.
They're going to be cranking up pretty hard.
So I think you'll see the amount of oil going into storage taper off pretty quickly in the next 3 to 4 weeks.
Our next question in the line comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch please go ahead.
Jack I wonder if I could pick up on your commentary about the success of this slickwater hybrid completions in the Bakken in the core of the Bakken in particular and how to that translates to the 800 000 barrel take for your high-graded portfolio this year? I'm just wondering what are you assuming in terms of the uplift in your 800 average versus what's actually happening? I'm just trying to understand why you're not finishing up by 800 take curve to the high-grade program if you could help us understand that please? Sure Doug.
We included a 25% to 30% uplift in our EUR estimates in that 800 MBOU number and so it's built in and that's because our inventory.
We get about 60% of our inventory can be drilled in the Williamson McKinsey County area where we are seeing just repetitive results and we're really pleased with what we're seeing in there and we expect to see that down in Dunn and Montreal counties as well and we are in process of testing that as we speak.
You know as I've said before we've got -- we're experimenting and we're testing this technology and you know it continues to deliver results we are expecting in here.
So it's still early but anyways we like what we see.
Jack maybe I can try the question little differently because what I'm trying to understand is what proportion of your drilling inventory this year are the completion inventory I guess the better way to put it is going to be the hybrid slickwater and how would you expect -- assuming those successful how would you expect that proportion to change over time is really what I'm trying to get.
In other words why aren’t you doing more of it? Well Gary do you want to touch on that? You bet.
We're very impressed with the results that we have so far.
So to answer your question almost 100% of our completions this year will be enhanced completions with hybrid or slickwater.
And that these units are 100%? Yes.
Thank you.
My follow up I got a bunch of follow ups but I am going only take my second one.
So it’s really quick one.
Can you explain foreign exchange charge I guess in the K there are some mention of exploration in Canada can you tell us a little bit about what you're doing what’s the plan is and how we should think about that perhaps in a better oil place environment.
Thanks.
So if you look back in prior years it has been a few years but you have seeing some Canadian charges up there before we add up there on the border in North Dakota.
So at time we have tested exploration concepts across area and just some miscellaneous charges associated with some different places we have looked at.
Thank you.
Our next question in the line comes from Subash Chandra from Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Could you review and perhaps I just forget this but the SCOOP wells how they are being completed or they sort of standard or enhance completion and those in field test – I think you guys have been really good at keeping data apples to apples with those also standard and what that could mean for enhanced completions in this SCOOP and ultimately stack area going forward.
In general the types of completion we put forward there in our SCOOP play are already enhanced hybrid and slick water types designs.
And we have taken our learnings from play such as the Bakken and we apply them very quickly in the Woodford.
And so we believe we're compared to apples to apples when we are looking at our density test down there.
Okay in terms of propane intensity same enhanced? Same levels of profits.
Okay and then my follow up is a very high-grade I guess like a better term of the 800 barrels of oil are you sort of going back to the distant pads and new pads what sort of combination is that and I guess what I am – the question I am asking is frac protect and if it is on existing pads how you go about frac protecting is that a bigger issue going forward? When you frac protect you mean protect the current wells that are already there? Yes correct.
Okay.
As we continue to develop the field we will more and more begin developing areas that already have existing wells in place.
When we go in a frac there are times where we will shut in nearby offset wells to help protect the frac communication that we see earlier on which is generally just the water and is for a short period of time.
However we’ve got all that built into the way we forecast or models and we expect that the sand and propend does not travel far enough to interfere with offset wells.
And so this is why we expect that that type of results were forecasted in 100 000 BOEs for an EUR.
Okay I will put a different way.
When you go back to perhaps a wider programming on a price recovery do you think it will be easier to sort of coax production growth than it is when you have to worry about shouting a nearby producers? When you are standing in the field? Yes let’s say we are in a $70 price environment you go back to building new pads and sort of expansion works that you are doing in the past would be easier to derive production well.
When you're expanding out into new areas you don't have that same type of operational performance.
Okay so that will make sense.
Alright thank you.
Our next question on line comes from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Can you talk to how your oil outlook and actual prices dovetail into how you think about your completion backlog and capital budget? It was with oil price or how much more would cost up to fall for you to add or subtract from your activity levels and can you just talk about flow of your backlog.
We have seen that of course from 14 to about 50 bucks.
We see in the future here recoveries you know $50 to $70 certainly would – we start picking it up and then $70 environment and completing more of these wells that we are deferring.
Brian just to your question for economic sense no a $5 change in the commodity price pays for you to differ for several months I mean that just a PV calculation on that and when you look to the con tango nature of the market we have got as of this morning I think prior to December it was $8 or $9 difference.
So you have got that cross difference and you factored that in coupled with what we are seeing in cost reductions pushing those out for a few months absolutely make sense and we have optionality to do it further do more or less as we see fit in those environment but the current environment we see a positive rate of return impact from doing that.
There is another interesting point I want to as this may not happen but theoretically if the backend occur would it come down to take that con tango to front end or not to fall from here would that actually lead you to increase here to reduce your completion backlog? Potentially but we still think we are going to see capital reductions throughout the year and so we are seeing 10% so far we expect more than 15% close to the 20% or even more in the second half of the year and so that by itself also helps pay for delaying some of our completion likes we are doing in the Bakken.
And last one from me based on the based on the improved well performance that you’ve talked about here can you just talk to what are your prioritization would be between Bakken SCOOP Springer i.e.
environment where you do want to bring rigs back on would you bring them on first? We have got a lot of optionality with our inventory.
We’ve just got such a great inventory in both of these plays that – for us there's just a lot of variables that would be out there for us to consider and so the good news is that we can mix and match our inventory in the rate to return to basically matching the environment and that’s what we have done right now.
And so our mix I think we are going to continue to keep a mix it’s very similar to where that right now.
I don't see why we are rally changing it and we always have to depend on gas prices going to be versus oil prices and right now it seems likes oil prices I would expect that they are going to be higher here in the latter half of the year.
Thank you.
Our next question of line comes from Mr.
Mike Kelly from Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead.
Looking at the -- I am just going back and referring your Analyst Day slides and looking at your Woodford position I think the time you guys have deemed about 45% of it de-risked and it looks like you drilled some pretty solid step out wells going to the south here this quarter just wondering what that does for your thoughts on de-risk number and then any thoughts on how that maybe changed your thoughts on various windows of the play too? I would say that we are 40% right as what you said we had at Investor Day and the step also we have done as you know we have been stepped out at least 20 miles of the south east.
So we have significantly expanded our de-risk position in this play and the results that we are seeing as just as you have seen in some of our report they are just exceptional.
I don’t know its an estimate right now I would say may be we are may be two-thirds de-risking here and you also have to throw in the springer there because it substantially de-risk because it’s just all the Woodford drilling and the test we are doing to this point.
So Woodford may be two-thirds Springer is probably 75% I mean it’s really play that compounds on itself because of where the wells are being drilled.
Great and all upon that there is a lot going on in the mid-comp between the Springer and Woodford Cana now stacked too.
What in your opinion is probably the most incremental test or program that we should look for data that helps and approve out for the delineate the area in the midcon? I was going to say we are basically in all three of these I mean obviously Woodford what we have seen down in SCOOP Woodford looks excellent you can see our results just continue to deliver Springer.
It’s probably the best way to return out there from everything we see and we have not been active in stack we have been watching it very closely and as said in the script here we have seen Cimarex come out with some announcements of several of very strong wells up there and those wells are drilled adjacent to and in and most acreage all throughout the stack play and we have got 103 000 that acreages up there.
So which one of these rises to the top I tell you what they are all looking really good but Springer to me is the probably the top but fact is that they are all delivering great way to return by look of it.
Timing on that stack test? I don’t know probably first half of the year.
Our next question on line comes from Leo P.
Mariani from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Obviously you spoke about starting to increase activity we get back $70 WTI just want to get a sense is that capital primarily go to Bakken at that point and if we do get at 70 would you guys consider hedging the well again? No we would not be hedging at 70.
So we expect price to do continually recover that here in the future.
So we wouldn’t be hedging at that level.
I think as far as activity goes basically we would have a balanced approach to all of these price and we are looking at each one of them individually as it compares to our entire inventory so I think you will see activity increase in all of them.
Okay and I guess in terms of CapEx this year you guys talked about being balanced as we get to mid-year I guess that probably implies you potentially may have less CapEx in the second half versus the first half of ’15 could you guys kind of help us with that how that should be split out during the year.
Absolutely.
We come into the—we are down about I think 34 35 rigs now we average little bit lighter than that as we go through the year all those numbers are in the detail but we came in with 50.
So you see the front half is probably I don’t have it right in front of me it’s about two-thirds I think of the total for the year in terms of dollars so it does back off dramatically as we go through the year.
The other thing that comes in there is we are projecting higher cost savings in the back half of the year than certainly what we have entered the year with or the 15% is an average for the full year so that denotes that the back-half of the year as Garry said earlier 20% or more.
Okay that’s helpful and I guess just looking at your program for this year in the Bakken and you guys are targeting 800 MBoe-EQ I think the previous numbers you guys have turned out was like 775 is that number just gone up because you are seeing better well performance thus far? We had it 700 actually for our budget that we had previously to the 2.7 and that increase that you have seen is just the result of us continuing to high grade our inventory.
So we can continue to step that up but this is a good blend that we feel we can get a lot of things done and the average of that blended in 800 MBoe-Equivalent.
Our next question in line comes from Paul Grigel from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
On the SCOOP and the Springer as well when you focus on HPB requirements over the coming years here could you just talk on how much you have held by production now and then what the time horizon is on the areas that aren’t held at this point in time.
Yes we have approximately 35% of HPB at this point in time.
We look at this every day.
Our drilling programs are designed to drill the optimal locations while maximizing our HPB leasehold.
We have got a lot of as Harold said contractual provisions in our leases that will give us a top lease protection and even automatic renewals we have got a lot of term left on and the majority of our leases its not that we are concerned about it’s we keep up with everyday.
When you say lots of term could you put a number to that? Our leases from the onset are three year terms sometimes lot of times with the three-year kickers.
We have two to three years probably 60% to 70% two to three-year term remaining.
Okay and then sticking with the SCOOP you guys touched on a little bit on the oil takeaway capacity that is coming online.
Could you talk on the midstream on the gas and processing front on any requirements that you need there or as you kind of continue to grow production what needs to be built out over time or there is enough capacity already? There is good capacity on the plants the midstream providers are staying ahead of us on the plant end of it.
We work real well with them in both the Bakken and the midcontinent.
So they are staying ahead of us.
Takeaway capacity for residue and liquids is good in both areas for now.
Eventually as we continue to grow in southern Oklahoma there will be additional pipes built out of there.
Quite a few folks have proposed lines over the past year and as we see prices firm out I think you'll see some projects come to the forefront.
But over the next couple of years we are in pretty good shape right now.
Our next question on the line comes from Dan Guffey from Stifel please go ahead.
You have a significant runway of undeveloped acreage and locations but I'm curious are you seeing any opportunities and do you guys have any desire to add acreage in the SCOOP stack or Bakken please? Yes sure we continually evaluate our opportunities.
We haven’t really slowed down from an acquisition or a leasing standpoint in any of our plays at this time.
And we are planning to negotiate prices in line with the market.
Okay and then you talked about the success you had in slickwater and the hybrid fracs over in Williams County.
As you move east into Dunn and Montréal counties are you doing anything different or are you trying anything new as you move east? Not as really particularly just because we're moving east we're testing the same type of designs everywhere and seeing if they are successful as we're seeing in McKenzie County and Williams County we will continue to expand.
One thing we have mentioned earlier we do have some 40-stage test that we completed late last year as well as early this year.
We have a few more of those to test and we will watch that as we see 90 days of production or so in making an evaluation on that.
But right now we are very pleased with our 30-stage results and are just looking to expand that.
Okay great.
And apologize if I missed this.
In terms of spacing with the upsized fracs what are you thing in your opinion the ultimate development just in the Bakken how many wells per unit you think is appropriate using these upsized fracs? It's a good question and we're going to be monitoring that to see.
It would be great if we could actually reduce the number of wells because of the upsized fracs.
But at this point we see a lot of -- our evidence really points to eight wells per unit in the middle Bakken and a minimum of four and up to eight in the Three Forks.
And so nothing has really changed from that front.
But you're exactly right.
These upsized things could help us maybe reduce some of the cost to recover these wells.
Our next question in the line comes from Andrew Coleman from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
The first question I had was can you just run through the base decline for SCOOP and Bakken as we are looking at forecast in the PEPs here? Yes I can address that.
Our overall base decline is in the mid-30% so around 35% to 36% for the company.
And so it's similar to lots of other plays whenever you're in these unconventional plays there is an initial steep drop-off but that's just the first year.
After that it climbs out to a 20% in second year and about 15% the third year.
And so that's about where that lies and with our activity of what we are investing right now at about $2.7 billion like to as discussed earlier we are in a great position to maintain and even grow or production a little bit as we continue to invest in that level.
Looking at 150 million of other spend is there any facilities optimization in that bucket and I guess if so could you give me a feel for how much of that is water handling expansion or gas handling expansion? For that those capital expenditures a significant portion of it is for water handling.
We have got some projects and yes we are trying to recycle some water saves us cost.
If we can keep water that we've already transported to the area and recycle it.
It’s a benefit for us on the capital and the expense side and we have some of those projects going in on in the south and then in the north we've also got some water inland type investments.
But again they're a very good investment that payoff because they reduce our capital on wells going forward as well as our LOE expense thereafter.
And what's the average water cut up in the Bakken at this point.
Well that’s a little -- I don’t have that number directly with me.
But yes the water obviously comes on high because of our initial fracs and then declines off over time and then there is variability throughout the play as far as natural saturations within the Bakken so there is just variations of water cut throughout the play.
Okay.
And do you foresee I guess as you get through the year with the slow down on activity and the deferred completions that you have excess water handling capacity or are we up against -- you know kind of with all the growth up in the play that it will be still against facility kind of limits there as we go through the year.
We don’t see any facility restrains on our development.
Thank you.
Our next question online comes from Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Regarding the SCOOP Springer play it looks like the wells -- at least that you're putting in the re-lease much oiler than described at your analyst day is that -- does it vary tremendously through the play or is it becoming more oily than you thought? No those wells were drilled right in and amongst the -- really at similar core earlier drilling and the variability's just -- I don’t know that they're that different.
I think we are seeing somewhere in the range of anywhere from 70% to maybe 75% oil and so it varies.
But no there's nothing right now that I could point to it that says -- going to very dramatically we do see that as this gets deeper it could transition into some acreage that we have divest here.
We got about 77 000 acres out there that we think is maybe more in a gas maybe gascon I would say.
But at this point where we're drilling it -- it all should be just about the same.
And then just another takeaway question on the Bakken I guess putting more oil into pipe or should we see -- where do you all think the differentials are going to over the next couple of years? We've got our guidance for the company balance in the $7-$10 range for the year and that’s a combination of the Bakken the midcontinent the SCOOP barrels.
Obviously we have a lower differential for SCOOP because we are concentrated at Cushing and we'll continue to see -- I think improvement down into that.
I think that $7-$8 range in the long-term is probably something we can look at and hold on to.
Our next question on line comes from Marshall Carver from Heikkinen Energy.
Please go ahead.
Regarding your building and completions backlog how does that factor into your comments around 2016 potential growth -- your comments on being able to grow on a single digit on flat CapEx.
Does that assume a higher level of completions in '16 or flat or down versus the '15? I recognize 20 flat CapEx year-over-year doesn’t mean the same level of activity because we've have had significantly lower service cost going into next year and depending on where prices stay it may continue to decline further.
So you actually have a little big higher activity level.
We will introduce our wells waiting completion at the end of '14 going into the end '15 probably about a third.
Each completion crew gets through about 3-4 wells in the Bakken.
So you actually see even with lower completion you'll see that comes down as we go through the balance of the year.
And that will provide you some higher PDP going into next year but you'll get a little bit higher activity level also just because of the service cost reduction.
So all of that's factored in and we got a lot of inventory and a lot of optionality on where we drill and how we do it.
So we can continue to generate good growth.
Our next question on line comes from Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of things; do you have any update on the extended lateral tests you are doing in the Springer.
I think you went up to 75 000 feet and you also stated some EUR and cost expectations.
Do you have an update on those? I've got an update on the first couple that we've done in the Springer.
We've got one down that has lateral length of about 6 600 feet and then we are still drilling our second one and it has a potential lateral length of about 7 500 feet.
So that’s where we are on those and provide updates on those future quarters.
I would say one more thing -- one more thing would be that on the great efficiencies that we're working on is to drill longer lateral lengths this year compared to last year in both the Woodford and the Springer play.
So in the Springer last year all our wells were one mile laterals.
This year we plan for roughly about half of them to be extended laterals.
And then for the Woodford last year about 50% of our wells were extended laterals and this year we plan for about 85% of them to be extended laterals.
So that’s a very important efficiency for us this year.
That also speaks to our ability to HBP acreage which was questioned earlier.
And also in the 10K and the acreage tables just sort of updating the acreage count by region.
Welcome any general comments you have but a couple of things in particular I noticed is that the expirations in the sort of other category in the south coming this 2015 seem to be go up a lot about [indiscernible] and expiring in 2015 if not held first is about 65 000 for that category in 15 last year.
And also just a couple of the categories like for example Texas and Wyoming counts noncore counts also I think went up.
So could you just talk a little bit about what those areas are? Yes.
Well we -- you know we are an exploration company and we various projects around the country and not all of them work and so in the end I think maybe you're saying some of that.
Okay the Texas and Wyoming are those sort of in the rear-view mirror or things still maybe -- might be work on anything?.
You know we are always working on things you don’t know you know us and so we've got our exploration footprint all across the country and so if one project didn’t quite work out we've got plenty other that are in the queue so in the end we don’t exclude any state or any area.
Okay fair enough.
And just one clarification I'd like to get on the guidance.
The LOE guidance for example on unit basis hasn’t really changed since the analyst day and of course we've seen the CapEx change a bit.
But for the service cost cut expectations that you have; are those fully baked into the CapEx and the production guidance you have for the year or have you been a little more conservative as far as not necessarily counting much better service cost later in the year? I'm just trying to get a feel of that as I was trying to reconcile it back to the free cash flow number you are looking at.
Several questions there.
On pure debit CapEx and associated service costs that goes with that.
We factored in a scale where it's increasing as we go through the year.
So the first quarter is lower as Gary said.
He has achieved about 10% so far.
He is ahead of budget on that.
The average for the year is 15% exiting the year is 20-25% by that time.
So it’s a sliding scale.
I'll tell you where we are going after service cost and efficiencies as quickly as we can while balancing our ongoing activities.
Lease operating expense has a number of variables in there.
We actually came in a little bit better than guidance for '14.
And we kept the guidance the same.
There are a lot of things that go in there like weather conditions in North Dakota snow removal road conditions in the spring.
Those can impact that.
The level of expense work hours planned and whether you do them in the timing of when you do them.
There is a lot of variables so we kept our guidance fairly flat and but we are pleased that the teams have done better than that.
And as we go through the year we will continue to monitor that on at least operating expense.
We appreciate the questions.
This concludes -- we've gone past our hour of time that we were allowed for the call.
So in respect to others that are reporting today we're going to cut it off here.
If you do have follow-up we're certainly happy to go through those questions you might have.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the First Quarter 2015 Continental Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Brandon and I'll be your conference operator.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
And I will now turn it over to Mr.
Warren Henry.
You may begin sir.
Brandon thank you.
I'd like to welcome everyone to the Continental Resources First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Joining me today with prepared remarks are Harold Hamm Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Stark President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Also during the call this morning joining us for Q&amp;A will be Jeff Hume Vice Chairman of Strategic Initiatives; Gary Gould Senior Vice President of Operations; Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land; José Bayardo Senior Vice President of Resource and Business Development; and Glen Brown Senior Vice President Exploration.
Today's call will contain forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the SEC for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
Also on the call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures please -- to generally accepted accounting principles please refer to the updated summary presentation that is posted on our website at www.clr.com.
With that I'll turn the call over to Harold.
Thanks Warren.
I appreciate everyone joining us on the call this morning.
We are living today in historic times as world markets are recalibrating in the face of North American energy renaissance as demand expands to equal supply.
Continental has been a leader in this renaissance.
I'm pleased to tell you that we have adjusted to this new market condition and we are well positioned for success in this environment.
Continental's high-quality assets and our financial and operational strength provide the foundation from which we will continue to grow shareholder value in the future.
I'm particularly proud of Continental employees and their response to the challenges of the past 6 months significantly reducing operating costs and creating an even more efficient and productive organization.
Our first quarter performance is a perfect demonstration of my point there.
Production for the first quarter tells the story.
Almost 207 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the first quarter and current production is approximately 215 000 Boe per day reflecting the momentum from 2014 activity such as first production from the 10-well Poteet density pilot and SCOOP that came on in March.
Bottom line Continental hit the brakes hard on capital spending and we were successful to the extent that we emerged from the first quarter $57 million below planned internal budget.
In addition both LOE per BOE and G&amp;A per BOE of production for the quarter were better than annual guidance.
That's excellent.
So we adapted quickly and decisively to the new price environment.
Throughout this downturn we are conserving the strength of our balance sheet and targeting cash flow neutrality by midyear in preparation for the coming rebound in oil demand and pricing.
Continental's teams are performing at a championship level.
And obviously we work closely with our drilling and service contractors as well as vendors throughout our supply chain to drive costs down quickly while maintaining valued relationships with them our core service providers while gaining efficiencies at the same time.
Jack will expand on this but we've already seen a 15% reduction in well cost in the Bakken and the SCOOP Woodford and we expect additional gains by midyear.
In addition to reducing operating costs we are also creating shareholder value through operational efficiencies.
A good example is in the Bakken where we continue to optimize our drilling operation.
As noted in our press release the Bakken team recently set a new company record drilling a 2-mile lateral in 3 days nearly 4 days faster than our average time to drill a lateral portion of the well in the basin.
This same well is drilled from spud-to-TD in 13 days nearly 5 days faster than our average spud-to-TD time.
So far this year the Bakken drilling team has TD-ed 8 wells in less than 14 days and we continue to improve our operational efficiencies.
World oil markets are recalibrating and in the midst of this movement there are outstanding opportunities for independents.
On a more global perspective Continental has been working hard with other industry leaders to lift the U.S.
ban on crude oil exports.
The current environment of world energy markets perfectly illustrates why this should happen and I'm highly optimistic we'll get this done this year.
Senators and congressmen are becoming knowledgeable around this issue and the fact that the ban is a 1970s era relic of the mix and price control administration that directly contradicts our commitment to free trade it is becoming widely recognized that sufficient refinery capacity does not exist in America today to process American light sweet crude oil from shale plays such as the Bakken.
And we the producers are subject to a steeply discounted value as a result.
Success in getting the ban lifted will benefit the United States immensely in terms of energy development and security job growth trade balance and consumer stability of gasoline prices in the future.
The time has come for this change.
And that is summary of just one more reason why it's a great time to be in the U.S.
oil business and in particular a great time to be at Continental.
America will again be an energy superpower in the world.
I'm proud of the role we here at Continental play.
Thanks for your support and now I'd like to turn the call over to Jack Stark.
Thank you Harold and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us on the call today.
As Harold mentioned our teams have done a remarkable job taking care of business given all the challenges they faced over the last 6 months.
Thanks to their efforts our first quarter results were on target or better than target on all metrics which is a testament of the teams' understanding of our operations our financials our assets and our ability to adapt quickly to change.
CapEx for the quarter came in $57 million under budget driven primarily by lower service costs.
Our service costs are currently down 15% on average and we expect to see a 20% total reduction in costs by midyear.
Production on the other hand was slightly ahead of budget for the quarter at 206 829 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 7% from the fourth quarter of 2014 and up 36% from the first quarter of 2014.
Given the drilling and completion activity budgeted for the remainder of 2015 we expect to see production growth to level off around midyear and project an exit rate for 2015 of approximately 5% above our 2014 exit rate of 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We anticipate having approximately 105 total gross wells waiting on first production at year-end 2015 as compared to 159 gross wells at year-end 2014.
In the Bakken our drilling program is proceeding right as planned.
We have adjusted our level of activity and we currently plan to keep 10 drilling rigs and 3 completion crews running through year-end.
These rigs will be focused on developing our core acreage in Williams McKenzie Dunn and Mountrail counties as we move into the first stages of full-field development.
Approximately 60% of our 2015 Bakken wells will be drilled on 660 880 inter-well spacing in both the Middle Bakken and Three Forks reservoirs.
We're planning to complete all of these wells with our 30-stage enhanced slickwater or hybrid technologies targeting an average EUR of 800 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We continue to be very pleased with these results from our enhanced completions and have observed increasing initial 90-day rates and EURs per well as our data set builds.
Our slickwater and hybrid completions are now showing an average initial 90-day production uplift of 50% to 40% respectively over nearby legacy completions in Williams and McKenzie counties.
We are also seeing a corresponding uplift of 25% to 45% in EUR per well based on early time data although we're seeing a significant improvement in the Bakken rates of return at the well level as costs are aligning with commodity price.
A completed Bakken well currently costs around $8.2 million based on our 2-mile enhanced completion design which is about 15% below our costs at year-end 2014.
At a cost of $8.2 million per well and $60 oil the rate of return on a typical 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent Bakken well is approximately 30%.
We believe well costs will continue to decline as we realize operational efficiencies and service costs continue to align with oil price.
We're targeting a completed well cost of $7.7 million per well in the second half of 2015.
Now moving on south into Oklahoma.
Our SCOOP step-out drilling program continues to deliver impressive results from both Woodford and Springer reservoirs.
Our pilot density projects are also proceeding nicely and will accelerate our understanding of the optimal well spacing needed to maximize recoveries and returns from our exceptional SCOOP assets.
In the Woodford we completed 25 net 59 gross operated and nonoperated wells during the quarter.
The average maximum test rate for these wells was 1 430 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which approximately 35% was crude oil 65% was liquids-rich gas.
Of significance we began producing our 10-well Poteet density pilot test in late March.
The maximum combined peak production rate for these 10 wells was an impressive 147 million cubic feet of gas and 3 240 barrels of oil per day.
Of equal significance Continental owns an average working interest of 94% in these 10 wells.
Poteet is our first density test in the condensate window and was also our first dual level density test involving 5 wells each in the upper and lower Woodford.
On average these wells had a lateral length of 7 500 feet.
This design was used to maximize the recovery from the Woodford reservoir that is approximately 385 feet thick at this location in Stephens County.
We have more than 50 000 net acres with Woodford reservoir that is greater than 300 feet thick where this density drilling may be applied.
Needless to say we're very pleased with the early results of the Poteet density test and the implications it has for the resource potential of our SCOOP Woodford assets.
We'll continue to monitor these results closely.
During the quarter we also completed several other notable Woodford wells that include the Thurston 135H in Grady County which tested 5.7 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day which included 348 barrels of oil per day from a 4 569-foot lateral.
Also we had the Singer well the Singer 2-18-7XH in Grady Country which tested 8.6 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day with 40 -- 423 barrels of oil per day as part of that production.
And this was a 6 672-foot lateral.
These were high working interest wells also with Continental having a 93% working interest in Thurston and a 78% working interest in the Singer.
In the SCOOP Springer we completed 11 net 15 gross operated and nonoperated wells during the first quarter of 2015.
The average test rate for these wells is 1 081 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Of note the Ramsey Trust 1-16-9XH was our first cross unit Springer test and it had a maximum 24-hour test rate of 2 235 barrels of oil equivalent per day from a 6 615-foot lateral.
Other completions of note include the Omer 1-17H and the Jerry 1-15H which had maximum test rates of 1 354 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 1 052 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively from laterals averaging 4 600 feet in length.
81% to 85% of this production was crude oil.
Continental had a 73% working interest in the Ramsey Trust 75% working interest in the Omer and a 50% working interest in the Jerry.
We also completed our second density pilot in the Springer during the quarter.
The 4 wells in the Jeanna density pilot floated a combined peak production rate of 3 852 barrels of oil per day of which 81% was crude oil.
This is our second Springer density pilot located approximately 28 miles southeast of our 4-well Hartley density test.
The Jeanna wells were drilled on 1 320-foot inter-well spacing with average lateral lengths of 4 400 -- excuse me 4 644 feet.
We have a 87% interest in the Jeanna unit.
As in the Bakken we are seeing well cost reductions of approximately 15% in SCOOP and we expect to see additional reductions in costs through operational efficiencies as we gain more experience drilling and completing wells in this play.
In addition to our Bakken and SCOOP programs we continue to add value and evaluate new opportunities in both our Northwest STACK -- or excuse me Northwest Cana and STACK plays located in Kingfisher Blaine and Dewey counties Oklahoma.
In 2015 we began drilling our -- on our 31 000 net acres in the Northwest Cana project under the joint development agreement we have with SK E&amp;S.
Continental is operator and SK E&amp;S is funding 50% of Continental's capital requirements until a $270 million carry is exhausted.
We plan to have an average 4 rigs drilling in Northwest Cana throughout the year targeting the Woodford reservoir.
In late April we completed our first well the Schantz 1-5-8XH which is located in Blaine County.
The well is flowing approximately 14 million cubic feet of gas per day at 3 900 pounds flowing casing pressure from the Woodford and the rate continues to incline.
In emerging STACK play we have been monitoring activity for several months.
Recent results from the wells completed by others in the Meramec reservoir have sufficiently encouraged us and suggest that the STACK play could become another significant platform of growth for the company.
So we've got approximately 1 300 -- excuse me 134 000 net acres in what consider the potential STACK fairway and have began drilling our first Meramec test to begin our assessment of the play.
So with that I'll turn it over to John.
Thank you Jack.
Good morning to everyone.
Continental is well positioned to prosper today and as oil markets recover.
Our focus is on maintaining financial strength and operational flexibility.
We remain committed to these key objectives and expect to see continuing improving results as we move forward.
EBITDAX for the first quarter was $439 million resulting in a net loss of $132 million or $0.36 per diluted share.
On an adjusted basis excluding impairments and noncash gains on derivatives we had a net loss of $34 million or $0.09 per diluted share.
Our operating costs for the quarter were excellent with performance better than annual guidance.
Lease operating expense was $5.05 per Boe while DD&amp;A was $21 per Boe and cash G&amp;A was $1.85 per Boe.
Total cash cost including interest was lower at $13.61 per Boe in the first quarter improving by 23% as compared to the full year 2014.
Our improved cash costs are a reflection of our teams' commitment to lowering operating costs and improving efficiencies.
Property impairments for the first quarter totaled approximately $148 million inclusive of producing and non-producing assets.
Proved property impairments were $70 million reflecting the impact of lower commodity prices in certain noncore areas and the remaining charges of $77 million reflect recurring amortization of undeveloped leasehold.
There were no impairments of Bakken- or SCOOP-producing assets.
First quarter oil and gas differentials were consistent with our guidance at $10.01 for oil and $0.28 for natural gas.
We anticipate the softened price for NGLs will improve in the near term as crude supply rebalances and as it correlates to the price of oil.
North Dakota recently modified its tax structure to reduce the all-in combined production tax rate to 10% while eliminating existing rate triggers in 2016.
The WTI average is above $90 for 3 consecutive months.
The rate will rise to 11%.
This new structure will be effective beginning January 1 2016.
As Harold and Jack noted we are under budget for CapEx year-to-date providing strong momentum towards cash flow neutrality by midyear 2015.
We plan to spend approximately 2/3 of the capital budget in the first half of the year and the remaining 1/3 in the second half.
Therefore our run rate of CapEx spend in the first quarter is not indicative of the remainder of the year as we expect the rate to decline significantly from quarter to quarter.
At a $60 benchmark WTI we would be cash flow-neutral by midyear.
Strip prices have risen significantly recently while costs are continuing to decrease and our level of spending is coming down.
So we are closely approximating neutrality now and expect to achieve it shortly.
In relation to our annual guidance.
Obviously we are performing extremely well on a number of measures.
As we have indicated previously we want to see strength and stability in oil prices before adjusting our guidance.
We have an adaptable program where we can scale production up or down to reflect market conditions.
Although we could likely be comfortable in adjusting certain elements of our guidance today we are electing to monitor oil prices for another quarter.
As for now production is trending towards the upper half of our guidance while LOE and G&amp;A are trending towards the low end or better of our guidance.
This reflects how well our teams and assets are performing.
On the finance front we continue to have ample liquidity and no near-term debt maturities allowing us to control how we deploy capital in 2015 with no near-term needs to tap the capital markets.
At the end of 1Q we had $48 million of cash on hand and we currently have availability of $1.3 billion under our credit facility.
On March 12 Moody's issued a credit opinion reaffirming our investment-grade rating and stable outlook.
In 2015 both Moody's and Standard &amp; Poor's have reaffirmed their ratings an indicator of the quality of our assets our approach to managing through the current cycle and our financial strength.
We remain committed to maintaining our investment-grade rating and we will continue to operate prudently during this downturn.
Again let us thank you for joining us on the call today.
Now we will be glad to take any questions that you may have.
Operator would you please provide instructions for asking questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] From Morgan Stanley we have Drew Venker on the line.
Research Division</strong> It's very nice results out of Northwest Cana and sounds like you guys are definitely getting excited about the Meramec as well.
Can you talk about your goals for the program this year I guess both in Northwest Cana and within STACK? Sure Drew this is Jack.
Northwest Cana we've just got plans to keep 4 rigs in there throughout the year.
And in STACK we have 1 rig that we have drilling right now.
We're probably going to keep that rig in there clearly for another well or 2.
We may actually keep it in there for the remainder of the year.
Just depends on what we see in the results from some of these initial tests.
Research Division</strong> And Jack among that STACK program did you plan to drill any Osage wells this year? You guys highlighted that as a potential target.
It's another of the reservoirs that has potential out there.
But at this point we're targeting Meramec which is what we've seen others target out there and have good success.
Research Division</strong> And I guess lastly on STACK if you continue to be encouraged by the results are you going to focus drilling in one area? Or are you planning to delineate the entire position? Well one of the advantages we have in this area is there's penetrations in the area that give us at least some framework of control here.
But it is -- it will require some delineation.
So I see us starting out probably playing a little bit close to the vest to where there is some known good results and just walk our way out.
About 65% of our acreage I believe that's right Steve is HBP-ed in this area because there's a lot of legacy acreage in here as well and -- is that right Steve? It's about 51%.
About 50% okay of our acreage is HBP-ed.
And so we really I guess I'd say I'm not under the gun to really get aggressive here.
I think we'll just -- we're going to step into this prudently.
Research Division</strong> And then on the costs side obviously service costs have fallen quite a bit.
Do you have any efforts underway to reduce costs by just changing well design in addition to service costs concessions? You bet.
This is Gary Gould.
We continuously look at operational efficiencies.
And so we are analyzing every piece of our drilling design whether it be the vertical or the curve or the lateral.
And you'd see some of our improvements that were described by Harold in our -- the speed in which we're drilling our lateral in the Bakken.
We're doing the same type of analysis in the south.
We also have -- besides just talking with our vendors day-to-day about operating costs we also talk to them day-to-day about our operations.
We also have quarterly meetings with them where we discuss safety as well as performance as well as costs.
We're also looking at short-setting some of the casing which could provide as much cost savings as $500 000 per well.
From Bank of America we have Doug Leggate on line.
Research Division</strong> Jack I wonder if I could ask you an operational question about the Poteet test.
Maybe my math's wrong.
But if this has been on since the beginning of March assuming it's the 1st of March and looking at the cumulative production you've had out of that it looks like the rates are well above the 30-day kind of type curve that you gave us back at last year's Analyst Day.
I'm just curious with the pressure you're showing on the well I'm just curious if there is anything unusual about how you're operating that test? Or is this indicative that things actually are putting out a little better than you'd guided to? And I've got a follow-up please.
Well these Poteet tests here I mean they are really performing right in line with what other wells in that area had done.
In fact I'm impressed with how they're performing here early time.
Remember we had our Claudine and Chalfont wells that were some of our highest IP wells in this same area and those are excellent wells.
And so the performance variance that you're seeing there that you're working on is probably just reflective of some operational variations that happen out there because what we're looking at is just a cumulative production for that period of time.
But Gary do you have anything you want to add to that? I'd just add that the completion design that we put on these wells was hybrid design.
It's very similar to some of the other hybrid designs that we do in the area.
And so this is an area with the thickness of 380 feet or so so it's a very good area for us.
But you also heard that we have 50 000 net acres of more than 300 feet of Woodford where this type of density could be applied.
So we've got a large acreage position in which we feel like we can develop this way.
Research Division</strong> So just to be clear though the lower type curve you gave is an average across all the acreage looks like it's the sweet spot.
Is that fair? Well this is a very good area here but these wells are performing really in line or even above the offsets around here.
There's no doubt about that and we're very pleased with the way they're performing.
So -- But as Gary said the completions there's nothing really unique about the completions.
We -- the fact that we've actually looked at harvesting this with the upper and lower half being penetrated here may actually be part of how these wells are performing quite well.
So this is part of why we're doing these density tests and doing the upper and lower half tests is we're trying to find out what is the optimum pattern for development when we're this thick.
What excites me about this test here is that we've got over 50 000 net acres that have 300 feet of thickness of Woodford or greater.
And when you consider developing that -- those net acres say with 7 500-foot laterals on this density you end up with over 500 wells net wells that could be drilled in those areas.
And in some of these areas it gets upwards to 900-foot thick.
So when you start putting the reserve model to those number of net wells you're looking at something that's -- just use 1.5 million barrels equivalent per well 750 million net barrels to the company.
So it validates what we've said back in September at our Analyst Day that the potential of the SCOOP area is -- basically competes head to head with the Bakken.
Research Division</strong> Jack I don't want to belabor the point.
Just want a yes or no answer on this one hopefully.
Will these facilities constrained or choked back in any way? On the Poteets we're flowing at pressures of between 1 500 psi and 2 500 psi casing pressure so no facility restraints though.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My follow-up and I'll be quick is just on the 1 000 barrel type curve on the Bakken Jack is does that assume the uplift that you provided on the hybrids and slickwater fracs? And if so what proportion of the wells are assumed? And then if you're going fully to that kind of design is the 800 000 number still good? And I'll leave it there.
Yes the 800 000 barrel equivalent number is the same number we've used previously and we didn't adjust it for the increase the uplift that we're seeing from these enhanced completions.
You did see a net gain of what 5% to 10% in initial rate maybe 10% in EUR from what we've reported here.
And so we are seeing actually better results from this but we did not change the 800 MBoe equivalent.
That's the same number we've been using.
And -- but that was uplifted based on our prior -- it does have I think a 25% uplift from -- based on an earlier enhance completion results.
Is that clear? I think I might have confused that.
Bottom line yes it does have an uplift in it of about 25% to 30% from what I'd call our earlier enhanced completion results.
It does not include the increased results that we're seeing right now.
From Guggenheim we have Subash Chandra on line.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question on the enhanced completions.
Do you think that it steepens the treadmill keeps it constant or reduces it as you look into '16? When you say steepen treadmill what do mean by that? LLC Research Division</strong> So the decline rate of these wells how does that change the shape of it versus the prior completions? So is it a higher IP steeper decline? Or does the decline kick in later in the life of the well at a steeper rate? I get what you're saying.
The way -- we're still early in the response for that.
But the way that we're modeling it right now and based on the production results we've seen so far on a 90-day average we believe that the IP increases by about 25% but the decline characteristics are the same.
And that's what that 800 000 Boe model is based on.
And as you can see we continue to see improvement from one quarter to the next.
You can see how our rates have improved and our EUR estimates have improved from this quarter compared to last quarter as we get more well results coming in.
So we continue to be encouraged there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is do you have a view a revised view of potential growth rate in 2016 spending within cash flow sort of assuming Harold's price environment that he thinks is sustainable? Yes if you look at -- I think you're asking in terms of the constant price environment.
Our maintenance cap going into 2016 is somewhere in the range of $2 billion to $2.2 billion.
We're continuing to see cost improvement during the balance of this year and I expect we'll see a little bit more next year.
So to maintain a flat level of production in '16 off of '15 would be $2 billion to $2.2 billion.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And the final one for me...
Anything above that we would be growing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes -- I'm sorry I cut you off.
I'm sorry.
Anything above those levels we would be growing production.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And a final question from me.
You talked I think about the Bakken well drilling the lateral out in a couple of days.
When you look at the Cana relatively is it more sensitive to staying in zone? Is it tougher to stay in zone et cetera? Trying to get a picture of what you think the optimal -- what you can get to in the Cana relative to the Bakken.
As far as the drilling target is concerned no.
Actually in Cana we got a thicker section to target there and so it's actually easier to drill.
Yes that -- basically we're dealing with 2 sets of rocks here and Woodford just drill slower and depending upon the section that we're in.
So we just don't have the as speedy drilling as we do up in the Bakken.
From RBC Capital Markets we have Leo Mariani.
LLC Research Division</strong> You kind of indicated that you will review the budget at midyear here.
Also you folks indicated that you thought there was upside in crude prices later this year.
Just trying to get a sense of what type of crude pricing environment you'd like to see before you decided that it was time to bring some rigs back to work here? We're going to be looking at that closely.
But as you know $70 a barrel is a price that turns it on for us I believe.
And basically we could see that happening in several instances..
So as we start looking at the short supply situation obviously that is apparent out there on the Horizon with the amount of rigs that's shut down that could happen fairly soon.
Also if we are not having the discounted oil into the market as we are right now due to this refinery shortage situation for light tight oil you could gain quite a bit as well.
So that could be reached quickly.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I guess just looking at the Springer here it's kind of in earlier stage of development versus other parts of SCOOP there.
Just trying to get a sense of how much of the acreage you think has been derisked that you've got there in the SCOOP for the Springer formation? Leo this is Jack.
From a geologic perspective the distribution of the Springer is really fairly well defined from all the Woodford penetrations that we've experienced or have been drilled out here.
And so we really have been able to essentially surpassed say the initial delineation phase and go right into a development phase here I'd call it so we can start out from some of the core and thicker areas and work our way out.
So from a geologic distribution standpoint we have a pretty good handle on it now is just assessing the economic derisked areas throughout it.
And so right now we've got 46 000 net acres that we call derisked as we've said previously out of the 200 000 net acres we have.
And that's in the oil window.
And we put about 127 million barrels net equivalent potential to the company but we've got a lot more running room here to go.
And as we continue to drill we'll be able to add more and more of that to our derisked economic footprint for the play.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just going over to the SCOOP play.
Just in general obviously it's a newer play than the Bakken.
You've clearly seen some dramatic cost improvements over many years in the Bakken just from efficiencies.
Just trying to get a sense of kind of roughly what inning you guys think you're in terms of efficiency improvements in SCOOP? If you think there's a lot more to go there over the next few years kind of like you did at the Bakken? You bet.
We've been at the Bakken for over 10 years and you can see the efficiencies we've gained whether it be on the drilling and completion side.
And we'll apply those learnings that we have from up there.
But it is different rock as Harold talked about and so really we're just in the second inning or so of a 9-inning game here as we continue to work on efficiencies.
And we usually see higher efficiency percentage increases in those first few innings.
So we're very optimistic about seeing additional operational efficiencies on top of our cost reductions that we've seen.
From Goldman Sachs we have Brian Singer on line.
Research Division</strong> You talked to being very close to cash flow neutrality now here at today's oil prices and costs.
Historically Continental has spent -- has outspent its cash flow.
And I wondered if you could just take us through how you're thinking about that on a going-forward basis? Obviously in a downward oil trajectory reining in the CapEx makes sense but I wondered if you feel like this is a more secular shift towards staying within cash flow.
And if not what the limitations do you see are in terms of how you think about outspending down the road? We've always -- we focused on being a balanced company.
Cash flow spend is one element of that.
But what we really focus on is the underlying debt metrics due to the quality of our assets with the high rates of return we've historically generated in the Bakken and SCOOP.
We've had a very advanced recycling of cash even though we've outspent we get it back very quickly and our debt metrics have actually improved over that previous period.
At our core and with the depth of inventory we got that we have we are -- we're an absolutely a growth company and we look to that in the future.
But we also look to maintaining balance -- getting the investment grade was very important to us.
It's important to us to continue to preserve that and grow that.
So there's not an absolute answer in terms of the level of spend but the absolute answer is in level -- in regards to maintaining this financial strength of the company and its various metrics.
And I think we've done a pretty good job of balancing those and we'll look to do that in the future while continuing to derive shareholder value by growing the company and realizing the value of the assets that we have.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And my follow-up is just with regards to the cost coming down and the cost deflation you've highlighted in areas like the Bakken.
Can you talk to what -- if you were to spread it up between -- or split it up between what you think is more secular i.e.
your own efficiency gains and improvements versus what is more service costs-related and more susceptible or maybe you don't think more susceptible to going back up if oil prices rise or even stay where they are right now? Well first I would say I think most of the cost reductions that we've seen on the service side in regards to just the vendor cost are structural.
I mean we're in a situation where the price is much lower and activity is much lower than it has been in the past.
And so I think these are structural changes based on supply and demand and activity of drilling rigs and stem crews.
As far as the percentages the 15% that we've seen so far is mostly driven by vendor cost.
And so additional operational efficiencies are upside to that.
We expect to see an average of at least 20% in terms of vendor cost for the second half of the year.
And so in addition to that we expect to see more operational efficiencies as we continue to learn how to drill and complete wells better yes and I would expect that more of those would be in our Oklahoma play than up in the Bakken.
And so we might see 5% to 10% at least in the south as it's a new play.
And we'll continue to work toward 5% improvement after over a decade of drilling wells in the Bakken.
From Howard Weil we have Brian Corales on line.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of follow-up on Leo's question.
How far away -- I mean how close to HBP-ing the SCOOP are you? I mean is that 2 years out 3 years out? I guess what I'm getting at is when is the majority of the rigs is going to be kind of at full-field development like that Poteet pad was? Well this is Steve Owen.
From a land standpoint we are 44% HBP-ed in the core currently.
And by year-end we'll be over 50%.
We continue to utilize our drilling programs as part of our HBP program in addition to our renewals and extensions.
Research Division</strong> I guess you mentioned on the Poteet wells that frac-ing I guess the upper and lower I mean could you see a benefit by frac-ing those together? Is that kind of one of the thoughts you have? Well as far as frac-ing them together we did frac them at the same period of time.
So we went and drilled all these 10 wells frac-ed them all at the same time.
And their well spacing is approximately is a little over 1 000 feet at the same level.
And even if we're talking upper or lower over 500 feet apart.
And so we see that as very effective overall pattern for stimulating these together.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So are those getting -- because they're being frac-ed together getting better results than say a one-off well? No there's no reason by doing that necessarily gets that much better than single wells that are HBP-ing acreage in other parts of our play.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And just one final question.
You had the slide with the enhanced completion showing the step up with the slickwater.
What is the EUR shown for the average standard completion.
Is that 800 000 barrels? Or is that 600 000? No it'd be 800 000 divided by 1.25 so a little bit over 600 000.
And just for clarity that's for the standard old design that we are no longer implementing this year.
From Simmons &amp; Company we have Pearce Hammond on line.
Research Division</strong> In the last quarter when you had talked about the possibilities of 2016 you'd mentioned that you could hold CapEx I think roughly flat and grow production in sort of the single digits.
And so one quarter on and you've seen where the cost savings have trended where well productivity has moved to do you think that actually you could see either a lesser rate of spend for the same amount of growth or commensurately the same amount of spend but more growth? We -- a flat level of spend that's the 2.7.
And at that we would grow in those ranges.
So that is factoring in probably a little higher activity level because of cost savings.
In the current price environment we certainly would see a continued improvement in costs not only in terms of rates and prices in that regard but obviously in terms of efficiency as Gary is giving some examples of.
Today we gave a little more color.
I think I gave it last time also that at flat level of production our maintenance capital is going to be closer to $2 billion to $2.2 billion.
That factors in cost savings and efficiencies as well that we would expect to garner.
Research Division</strong> And then given that oil prices have moved up a little higher here recently if you were to increase activity would it be first from a staging standpoint would it be first adding completion crews and then working down the well inventory and then there's some time lag before you would add rigs after that? Or would it be somewhat simultaneous? And if you did add rigs would it be in the Bakken or in the SCOOP? We would first be working down our inventory with more completion rigs.
And the second part of that question looking at the lease requirements will depend on where they go into SCOOP or Bakken.
So we're in awfully good shape on lease requirements in the Bakken so might very well be in the SCOOP.
From Heikkinen Energy we have Marshall Carver on line.
LLC</strong> You completed more wells than I was expecting in the SCOOP and Williston in 1Q.
How will the remainder of your 2015 completions be spread between 2Q 3Q 4Q? They'll be relatively even.
Right now we're looking at 3 stem crews in the Bakken from here on out and then also we're planning to manage 3 or 4 in Oklahoma from here on out.
It's possible that as we look at our inventory that we may pick up another crew at some point in the Bakken.
It will just -- we have the flexibility to manage our production in CapEx.
But right now we're looking at a flat number there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And one question on Slide 12.
You showed the 2 dashed black lines for the 7 500-foot next type curve.
Why are you showing 2 lines instead of 1? Is that 1 line for -- is that a high and a low based on historical wells? Or is one of those lines for the upper Woodford and one for the lower Woodford? What are those 2 dashed black lines represent? Unfortunately Marshall it sounds like your printer is printing out 2 lines.
We have a printer or a couple of printers around here that do the exact same thing.
And we didn't know that that was still an element of that slide.
But -- so you're seeing 2 lines but there shouldn't be 2 lines there.
I apologize for that.
But the line that you want to track is the one I believe will be the top line top of the 2 all right? Ignore the other one.
Somehow we couldn't get rid of that evidently.
From IHS we have Sven Del Pozzo on line.
Inc.</strong> I was hoping if you can give me a little spatial orientation as to where you're doing the hybrid -- in the Bakken hybrid versus slickwater fracs? Yes we're actually continuing to test both throughout the area.
And so the hybrid may not give us as much initial rate but it doesn't cost us as much and so we continue to do tests throughout our area on both of them.
Inc.</strong> So in the vicinity of each other as well? That's correct.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And the decline in SCOOP rigs versus the decline in the Bakken rigs I was just wondering whether -- at least in the Woodford part of the SCOOP play where the economics probably are affected more than the Bakken by a decline in NGL and gas prices I was wondering kind of similar to the gentleman's question earlier where you'd be most inclined to reduce rigs or add them? So say the commodity price environment is similar to today's between gas NGL and oil would you rather add a Bakken rig or add a SCOOP rig? We really are seeing -- it depends on the area.
So if you look at it we could go into portions of SCOOP and get exceptional economics and it's just that all areas are not equal.
So yes we could move in and we could target our highest rate of return areas either in the Bakken or SCOOP with a rig and they compete pretty much head-to-head.
So it really comes down to what we perceive the commodity environment to be at that time the availability of rigs and what makes sense logistically.
So fortunate thing is that we can put them in either one and make great economics.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And last thing has the definition of an enhanced completion changed since your analyst meeting last September? I think at the time that was something like 4 million 4.5 million pounds of proppant per well.
What would you classify as an enhanced completion today in the Bakken? In the Bakken the way we classify them is hybrids and slickwaters.
So it could have been back at our Investor Day in September that we were also talking about shale fracs with more sand at that time.
We've been able to eliminate that as one of our enhanced stimulation.
So now we're focusing just on hybrid and slickwater and we continue to test as far as how much sand is optimum.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And what about testing of types of sand or is that standard across the Bakken? Yes we continue to test those as well.
We've seen such a great step change increase with the slickwaters and hybrids.
And now we continue to analyze other things such as stage lengths or types of sand and amounts of sand.
And our last question from Morningstar we have David Meats on line.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up a little bit on the current budget.
Are you guys still on track for the $2.7 billion still? Because I know you spent quite a bit in the recent quarter.
Yes the first quarter you can't take it and annualize.
It's -- coming into the year we came in with about 50 rigs.
We're down to about 30 now and so you see that step-change.
We expect to see about 2/3 of our CapEx in the front half of the year and about 1/3 in the back half of the year.
In regards to the $2.7 billion in the first quarter we were $57 million under what our internal budget was for the quarter.
And for the full year right now we're projecting we're on a trend today that would be less than our $2.7 billion by about $150 million to $200 million.
So we're operating inside of that budget currently and that gives us a lot of flexibility as we go throughout the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
One quick follow-up.
We've seen a decent level run-up in oil prices in the last month or 2.
I was just wondering at what point is it time to start consider adding downside protection? Sorry at what point would we consider downside? Research Division</strong> Downside protection adding hedges? Oh okay.
Hedges.
Yes.
Not -- certainly not at the current prices I think we would need.
Hedging is something where we're looking not only to price but rebalancing.
We're not anywhere near a point where we would enter into hedges particularly as we're getting to cash flow neutrality very quickly.
And we'll take one more question from Ladenburg Thalmann we have Noel Parks on line.
Research Division</strong> Just a question.
I remember back at the time of the Analyst Day you were talking about maybe some experimentation with completion order of the wells within a pad in the Bakken.
I think there's a mention of having seen some preferential drainage into I believe was sort of original wells and looking at trying to sort of engineer a different stress regime.
Did that pan out? Is that something you're pursuing? Or is that just secondary to what we've seen with service cost as far as adding value? I recall some discussion on that at Investor Day.
I believe it was around the Hawkinson microseismic work that we showed.
I would say the main thing we're doing now is we're moving into the Bakken based on our density test as well as results of our enhanced completions and we're moving into the first step of full development.
And so what you see is approximately 60% of the wells that we're drilling this year in the Bakken are moving into full development where we're targeting that optimum spacing that we've determined.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I'm sorry if this was mentioned before but do you have sort of an updated estimate of the Springer inventory you have at this point? No we have not updated that since prior calls.
We're just very slowly stepping this out.
As I've said before we don't really have to do much delineation drilling here to understand where the Springer reservoir exists.
We've been -- had the benefit of all the Woodford wells and penetrations that we've had out in that area it helps us to basically know where the reservoir exists.
And so what we're doing is just slowly stepping out and derisking the acreage economically from what we consider to be say the core areas.
And so we still haven't reached the limits of those areas that we've stepped out.
We haven't done really any significant step outs at this point because we didn't need to.
And so that's -- so it will grow though that inventory will grow.
And this concludes our question-and-answer session.
We will now turn it back to Warren Henry for closing remarks.
Again thank you for joining us on our call this morning.
Thank you for your questions and have a great day.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes our conference.
Thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Incorporated Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Warren Henry Vice President of Investor Relations &amp; Research.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Amanda.
I'd like to welcome everyone to today's call.
Joining us today with prepared remarks are Harold Hamm Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Stark President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Also on the call this morning and available for Q&amp;A will be Jeff Hume Vice Chairman of Strategic Initiatives; Glen Brown Senior Vice President Exploration; Gary Gould Senior Vice President of Operations; and Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land.
Our call today will contain forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
In addition Continental does not undertake any obligation in the future to update our forward-looking statements made on this call.
Also on the call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures for a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to generally accepted accounting principles please refer to the updated third quarter presentation that was posted on our website at www.clr.com yesterday evening.
To begin this morning I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm for his comments on the third quarter and our current outlook.
Harold? Thank you Warren and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your investment in Continental Resources.
On our last earnings call in August we said our goal for the third quarter 2015 considering this challenging commodity price environment were to continue delivering outstanding production results to continue lowering operating costs and to keep striving to balance cash flow with capital expenditures.
Three months ago we also announced strong initial production from our first test well and our STACK leasehold the Ludwig well and told you of our plans to delineate further our position in the STACK play.
While the third quarter is in the books and we delivered across the board production came in solid at 228 000 Boe per day.
Due to another quarter of strong production we are once again raising year-over-year production growth guidance to a range of 24% to 26%.
Let me take this opportunity to point out to you we have now increased our production guidance 30% to 50% from original guidance set last year.
While at the same time we're projecting to be 8% to 10% under on CapEx that's pretty impressive.
Operating cost per Boe of production continued to decline from $4.39 per Boe in the second quarter to $4 per Boe in the third quarter.
Just yesterday we announced yet another positive revision in our operating cost guidance for the year.
Lower production expense as well as lower G&amp;A cost per Boe.
Finally during the quarter we reiterated our commitment to balance capital expenditures with cash flow.
John will provide more detail momentarily but today we're approximately cash flow neutral at of $50 WTI and are making additional adjustments going forward to achieve cash flow neutrality as commodity prices continue to fluctuate.
The key takeaway is this.
Coming into this price downturn Continental was lean in terms of personnel and operating expenditures which has really paid off for us.
Take your pick in terms of per employee revenue production market cap or other key performance metrics Continental has always been a lean focused organization and we're now taking advantage of the challenging environment as we preserve the continuity of our core teams and raised the performance bar to yet another level.
We were also very quick to make adjustments in this commodity environment.
We keep improving and getting more efficient drilling and completing wells in fewer days that reduce costs.
We are very well-positioned to preserve the value of our assets if a low commodity price environment persists as well as preserve the growth and potential of our premier asset portfolio.
We continue to deliver on the exploration side.
Jack will describe our recent success in greater detail.
And let me just say that STACK has emerged as yet another high-value growth opportunity for Continental.
We currently own 146 300 net acres and Continental's well completion results as well as those of industry peers continue to validate our high expectation for the over-pressured window in the STACK play in Blaine Dewey and Custer counties and this over-pressured window is definitely a step change in the STACK play.
Finally from a more global point of view I'd like to comment on U.S.
crude oil exports.
We continue to see movement toward lifting the 1970s Nixon-era ban which has never served U.S.
national interest and is even more detrimental to everyone today.
We have bipartisan support for a reasonable solution lifting the ban and look forward achieving this before year-end.
America's energy industry is as competitive as it's ever been and now we're preparing to compete freely once again in a global energy market.
Get ready for American leadership to show just what it can do.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jack.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
I appreciate you joining us on the call today.
To start off I wanted echo Harold's comments and thank all of our employees for their dedication ingenuity and successful efforts in the third quarter.
They really stepped up and once again did an outstanding job curtailing cost increasing efficiencies and maximizing the return on every dollar spent.
The improved guidance we announced yesterday for 2015 reflects their achievements.
Today I want to focus on two things.
First an update on STACK and then I will touch on the cost saving operational efficiencies that we continue to achieve throughout the company.
Our STACK acreage in Oklahoma has quickly evolved into another high quality asset that is completely incremental to Continental and its shareholders.
The company has no reserves on the books for the Meramec and the STACK reservoirs underlining our 146 300 net acres and our production in the play has just begun to grow.
Since announcing our first STACK completion last quarter we have completed two more wells and are in the process of drilling or completing four more.
In addition we have conducted intense geologic and reservoir studies including industry-wide result to better understand the play.
What we have concluded so far the STACK is an exceptional value-added opportunity for Continental shareholders.
Here are five key takeaways that we can provide from the data we have at this time.
First based on our current geologic and reservoir studies we're comfortable saying that the net unrisked resource potential for our STACK acreage exceeds our expectations for SCOOP Springer and could approach that of our SCOOP Woodford based on reservoir thickness over pressuring and early well performance.
Second from an economic standpoint our STACK acreage looks like it will compete head-to-head with our economics in SCOOP.
We'll provide more clarity on STACK economics in the coming months as we build our reserve models.
Third more than 95% of Continental's acreage is located in the STACK over-pressured window or bottom hole pressures reach up to 0.8 PSR per foot almost twice normal bottom hole pressure.
Our reservoir study show that wells completed in the over pressure window had 90-day rates three times higher than the wells completed in the normally pressured window.
This includes 48 wells with 90 days of reported production normalized to a 9 800 foot lateral length.
From experience higher 90-day rates typically translate to higher EURs in tight resource plays like STACK.
We'll provide more clarity on EURs when sufficient production histories are available.
Fourth our acreage is concentrated in some of the thickest liquids rich portions of the play based on our current geologic model.
The STACK petroleum system ranges from 700 feet thick to 1 200 feet thick under our acreage in Blaine Dewey and Custer counties which by comparison averages around 600 feet thick in the Kingfisher and Canadian County areas.
We currently estimate that 30% of our acreage lies in the over pressured oil window 60% in the over pressured condensate window and 10% in the over pressured gas window.
And finally last point approximately 60% of our 146 300 net acres is already held by productions.
So the majority of our acreage is already secured.
So needless to say we're quite optimistic about our STACK acreage.
Wall Street analysts have justifiably credited significant net asset value to several of our peers based on the results of their activities in Kingfisher and Canadian counties.
Likewise Continental should see significant increases in net asset values.
We continue to demonstrate repeatable results in our Blaine Dewey and Custer County acreage over the next year and beyond.
To date Continental has completed three Meramec wells and we're very impressed with the early results.
Our first well the Ludwig 1-22-15XH was reported last quarter flowing 2 076 barrels of oil equivalent per day at 2 100 PSI flowing casing pressure and 76% oil.
Afterwards the well continued to clean up and eventually peaked at 2 782 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As announced yesterday we completed two additional Meramec wells during the third quarter the Ladd 1-8-5XH and the Marks 1-9-4XH.
The Ladd well located 3 miles northwest of Ludwig completed flowing 2 181 barrels of oil equivalent per day at 2 000 pounds flowing casing pressure and 79% oil.
The Marks well located 2 miles northwest of the Ludwig flowed at 994 barrels of oil equivalent per day at 625 PSI flowing casing pressure with 73% oil.
All three of these wells were extended laterals ranging from 7 800 feet to 10 100 feet in length.
Our targeted completed well cost is $9.4 million per well reflecting the cost of 2 mile laterals in the deeper over pressured window.
We expect these costs will be more justified – more than justified by the superior performance of the wells in these areas.
Our focus going forward is to continue delineating and de-risking our acreage monitor production and further develop our acreage in economic models.
We currently have three operated rigs drilling in the play and plan to maintain roughly that level of activity as we continue to de-risk and delineate our acreage.
Our efforts will be augmented by industry drilling – STACK is one of the few plays in U.S.
where the rig count has actually increased this year.
There are currently 25 rigs targeting the STACK Meramec and Osage reservoirs and approximately half of them are located in the over pressured window.
Before moving on let me point out the STACK is an example of the type of asset that gives Continental a lot of optionality and how we proceed with development.
Accordingly STACK is one of several assets where we may consider strategic alternatives such as a joint venture to accelerate value or reduce debt.
Now at this point I'd like to turn the spotlight on our operating teams and how they've driven down cost and continue to develop new cost savings that will pay dividends for years to come.
Their achievements this year have been remarkable and in the third quarter they continued to reset the bar with today's drilling and completion technologies.
Our Bakken drilling team has been committed to decreasing the spud to TD drilling times throughout the year.
And in the third quarter they achieved an average reduction of 15% in days spent drilling compared to the average for the first quarter.
The average day spud-to-TD during the first quarter was 17.6 days and 16.6 days in the second quarter.
During the third quarter it was an impressive 15 days and they tell me they're not done yet.
Some of the biggest strides are being made in the days – in the lateral.
During the quarter we set a new Continental record by drilling a 9 490 foot lateral in a remarkable 2.4 days.
Not to be outdone our Bakken completions team has taken a new approach to drilling out plugs that has reduced average drilling – average drill out times by 50% saving approximately $300 000 per well.
Overall our enhanced Bakken completion well costs are down 27% year-to-date to $7 million per well thanks to the drilling and completion teams' ingenuity and service cost reductions.
During the quarter our SCOOP drilling team demonstrated that significant potential lies ahead with the increased drilling efficiencies in SCOOP as the play matures.
Knowledge gained from drilling the nearby Poteet Honeycutt density pilots enabled them to drill the Vanarkel density pilot wells in almost half the time on a per well basis.
This reduced the average drilling cost per well by 45%.
We are seeing drilling efficiency gains of various scales throughout SCOOP and expect to see these efficiencies translate more and more to the bottom line as the play matures.
Year-to-date our estimated average cost of a 7 500 foot lateral in the Woodford condensate window is down 21% to $9.6 million per well.
We're excited not only by our gains in operational efficiencies this quarter but also our continued strong results from enhanced completions.
In Williams and McKenzie County area of Bakken we currently have 98 operated wells in our enhanced completion dataset from 90 days or more of production.
Results show an uplift of 34% to 48% in 90-day production rates and an impressive 30% to 45% increase in early EUR estimates.
We're also applying enhanced completion designs in the SCOOP and STACK areas testing higher proppant loads and more stages and seeing very encouraging results.
We'll communicate results from these tests in future quarters as we compile more substantial dataset of enhanced completions in the Southern region.
So I'll close by saying we're very pleased with the operational efficiency gains made this year and the prospects of more to come.
In the end these gains stick with us for the long haul and increase the value of our assets which in turn translates to more value to our shareholders.
With that I'll turn it over to John to discuss updated guidance and the financial results.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</strong> Thank you Jack.
Good morning everyone.
Revenue for third quarter was $683 million and EBITDAX was $472 million both reflecting the continued weakness in commodity prices.
Continental reported a net loss of $82 million or $0.22 per share for the third quarter of 2015.
Adjusted to exclude impairments non-cash gains and losses on derivatives and gains and losses on asset sales the net loss was $44 million or negative $0.12 per diluted share.
Offsetting some of the weakness in commodity prices were healthy production growth and reduced operating expenses per Boe in the quarter.
Production averaged just over 228 000 Boe per day in the third quarter declining sequentially in August and September.
The decline trend reflects our lower pace of activity and significant reduction in well completion activities especially in the Bakken.
As noted in our press release we expect to exit December with production of approximately 210 000 Boe per day.
The exit rate is an estimate and could vary based on the timing of various completions particularly those associated with large pad projects.
In looking at the composition of our production we know we exceeded Street consensus for oil production gas production and total production individually and in the aggregate.
Oil production was 65% of total production down from historical norms due to our deferral of Bakken completions and greater capital focus in SCOOP and STACK where we are delineating our positions.
Although this increases our gas composition in the short-term we note this rate ratio can reverse quickly as oil prices recover and we dedicate more capital to the Bakken in the Springer shale.
For fourth quarter we expect the oil ratio to be 64% to 65%.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $540 million.
We expect fourth quarter CapEx to be between $350 million and $400 million leaving us $200 million to $250 million under our $2.7 billion CapEx budget for the full year.
Changes from our previous estimates reflect some additional completions in the South and higher CapEx projections associated with outside operated well completions.
As Harold noted we are delivering stronger production for less CapEx.
Operating cost performance continues to be very strong production expense dropped to $4 per Boe in the third quarter down from $4.39 in the second quarter this year.
This reflects diligent cost management coupled with strong production results.
G&amp;A apart from equity compensation increased sequentially to $1.95 per Boe but was still solidly within our guidance range.
Non-cash equity compensation dropped to $0.61 per Boe in production down from $0.77 in the second quarter.
Earlier Harold referenced the lean focused nature of our organization.
Our G&amp;A reflects his comments as we're among industry leaders not only in G&amp;A per Boe but also efficiency per employee such as production per employee and revenue per employee.
Total cash costs including interest was lower at $12 per Boe in the third quarter which was a reduction of 3.5% from Q2.
Our cash cost are also among industry leaders and a strong testament to see a large efficiency.
As we noted third quarter oil differentials continued to trend lower to $7.54 per barrel versus $8.18 in the second quarter.
Approximately 75% of our Bakken production is now delivered to market via pipeline.
As noted in prior quarters we believe improvement in oil differentials will continue.
And although quarter-to-quarter may show volatility the long-term trend is expected to be improved.
The third quarter gas differential was $0.54 per Mcf $0.04 below the lower end of our full year guidance.
However for full year to 2015 we expect to be within our guidance.
Given continued improvements in performance through the third quarter we have once again revised full year 2015 guidance to reflect these positive metrics.
Note these revisions that we announced last night are on top of the positive revisions we made in the second quarter.
Let me review those.
First we now expect to increase production by 24% to 26% for 2015 up from the prior guidance of 19% to 23%.
Secondly we're looking for production expense of $4 to $4.50 per Boe down from the prior range of $4.75 to $5.25 per Boe.
G&amp;A guidance is now in the range of $1.70 to $2 per Boe compared with the previous range of $1.75 to $2.25 per Boe.
Non-cash equity compensation improved to a range of $0.65 to $0.75 per Boe down from the prior range of $0.70 to $0.80 per Boe.
Production tax is now in a range of 7.5% to 8% compared with the previous range of 7.5% to 8.5%.
And finally oil differentials are now in a range of $7 to $9 per Boe tightened from the prior range of $7 per Boe to $10 per Boe.
Complete updated 2015 guidance is available on our investor presentation posted on the website and in yesterday's earnings release.
On the financial side we continue to have ample liquidity and no near-term debt maturities.
At the end of September we had $17 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand.
At this point I would like to provide additional color on our credit facility.
There's a lot going on with various energy credits so we thought it made sense to reemphasize a few key points related to Continental.
Continental's facility is unsecured and not subject to any borrowing base redetermination.
Additionally there are no terms within our facility that would allow for or mandate collateral or a borrowing base calculation to come back into place.
Therefore we are not and will not be subject to any borrowing base redetermination.
Our only covenant is a debt to total capital ratio.
Capital includes debt of no greater than 0.65.
At September 30 we were at 0.57.
When calculating this covenant it is important to note that the calculation according to the terms of credit agreement specifically excludes any non-cash impairments after June 30 2014.
Obviously we have ample room under this covenant.
At November 4 2015 we had $880 million drawn on our credit facility.
We remain committed to focusing on cash flow neutrality and limiting incremental debt.
Consistent with our focus on reducing cost yesterday we completed two transactions that enhanced liquidity and lower annual interest expense.
First we have increased the commitments under our credit facility by approximately $250 million which brings total commitments to $2.75 billion.
This will provide incremental liquidity further facilitating our ability to call $200 million of our 7.375% bonds currently due in 2020.
While we have not made a formal decision for calling these bonds we note that calling and financing on our revolver at current rates would reduce the associated interest expense by approximately 5.5% saving in excess of $11 million of annual interest expense.
Additionally we entered into an unsecured three-year term loan with banks in our credit facility at a current interest rate of LIBOR plus 137.5 basis points or 0.125% less than our current revolving credit facility saving $2 million in interest over the three-year term.
After these transactions availability under our credit facility is almost $1.9 billion.
Our facility allows for commitments up to $4 billion but we have not accessed the full allowable level as we do not need to and do not want to incur additional commitment fees.
We note that bank response for our two transactions was very strong with our offering being significantly oversubscribed.
We had strong receptivity by existing banks and have added two new financial institutions.
The strategic implication of these transactions is keeping our balance sheet strong reducing interest cost and demonstrating that we have ready access to additional liquidity if it were needed.
Don't confuse this with any intention to add debt.
That is not our plan.
We remain committed to maintaining our investment-grade rating and believe we have the financial flexibility to do so.
We plan to announce full 2016 guidance in late December or early January.
In today's commodity environment our focus is on cash flow neutrality or said differently no new debt.
Doing so preserves our financial flexibility and assets for a better commodity environment.
We expect our 2016 guidance will reflect this view and reflect relatively flat or slightly lower production compared to the 2015 exit rate guidance.
For example 2016 capital at $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion is estimated to hold 2016 production flat at 200 000 Boe per day.
At current commodity prices this level equates to cash flow neutrality.
The commodity markets are evidencing continued volatility.
We remain willing and able to adapt to short-term fluctuations while viewing the long-term favorably.
With that we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A session.
And I'll turn the call back over to the operator.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good afternoon everyone.
I was hoping you could just speak a little bit more on the Meramec.
Can you talk about the variability in those first few tests two of those look very consistent in terms of rate and pressure.
There is notably lower rate and pressure despite being in a close proximity.
Can you give us a sense of how much you think that is related to geologic variability and how much related to differences in completion? Exploration</span></strong> This is Glen Brown I'll address that.
The difference really is the geo-steering issue.
We tried a different pattern and we drilled the well in a down dip pattern going across the formation.
The other two wells are drilled from hill going up.
And so basically it's targeting targeting is very important in all our plays and we're very early in this play but we expect our targeting to improve and the wells to be persistent especially as we go to the deeper depths with higher pressures.
Okay.
And as far as the program throughout 2016 you mentioned planning to delineate your acreage how far do you plan to step out from your first few tests? Exploration</span></strong> We've already stepped out.
We've landed casing and smattered in on our Bowden well which is approximately 30 miles to the Southwest of testing.
What we still think is in our oil fairways and we're going to be completing that starting next week.
We also have a Compton well which is in halfway between the Bowden and the Ludwig wells and several other wells that are drilling.
This is also added to by other industry wells that we are participating in or have working interest in.
So it's very active.
Okay.
And lastly just on the longer term well performance pressures look very high.
Is that consistent with relatively flat decline rates or can you speak to how the first couple wells have held up? The wells are holding up very well – excuse me.
The key there with those high pressures is that we are in over pressured area.
And so this over pressured area has given us three times the rates when you normalize per foot of lateral and that's why the economics here is going to be much stronger than the Eastern part of the play.
It's okay.
Exploration</span></strong> I might add to that.
We have a working depth range for our properties between 10 000 feet and 16 000 feet.
Thanks.
Exploration</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Leo Mariani of RBC.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
I was just looking for some clarity around the comment that you all made regarding 2016 were basically kind of keeping production at roughly 200 000 barrels a day at that maintenance level.
Is that the $50 WTI price that you all cited is that a strip just wanted to get some context around price? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yeah.
The cash flow neutrality comment is at 50% or slightly under.
It's really in line with where we're at today.
So we're kind of in the 47%-ish range.
So certainly at 50% but I think we would have a little bit more cash flow at that level.
Okay that's helpful.
And obviously it sounds like you guys have considerably slowed down completions here particularly in the Bakken in the short-term.
Just trying to get a sense of when do we think the frac crews come back is that early next year or are you guys just kind of closely watching oil prices in order to make that decision any color you have there would be helpful.
Certainly it depends on price Leo and also cash flow neutrality.
So that's a determining factor.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yes.
The model that we gave you there's lot of flexibility in that.
We did it in a way what we drilled next year we would complete next year but obviously that could be a few months in or we could accelerate that by working down debts if we choose to.
So there continues to be some optionality and flexibility in some of those numbers and how we approach next year.
Okay.
That's helpful for sure.
And I guess in terms of the STACK I couldn't help notice you picked up some extra acreage this quarter.
Do you guys continue to take those opportunities to build that position? Yes.
This is Steve Owen.
There's always opportunity out there.
It's highly competitive just like all of our other assets everybody wants in the play but we keep hitting hard and we'll keep succeeding.
All right.
Thanks Guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Wangler of Wunderlich.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Just maybe dovetailing a bit on the previous question there about the Williston and the completions given the backlog it's going to be in that 115 range here at year-end.
If we go through the year-end prices kind of stay here.
Is there a level that you're looking at saying okay that's a selectable ore that's enough and we can go deploy capital down in Oklahoma or is it just simply we'll keep drilling up there with the eight rigs? We certainly will not.
If price doesn't recover we're not going to continue at the eight rig level.
We have flexibility.
If it does we can keep those rigs but we won't continue if price doesn't recover.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And maybe just down in Oklahoma how you see the rig allocations playing out not trying to necessarily nail down a number for next year.
But more I guess a percentage or something between the call it three plays.
Where do you see the activity going from now until next year? Well this is Jack.
And I think that you'll see the rig allocation kind of stay where it's at right now.
We've got three wells in STACK; we've got five wells in our Northwest Cana and seven wells down in SCOOP and we have the ability to fluctuate back and forth between the plays but I think it's a fair statement to say it's what you could expect going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Morning Brian.
You mentioned in your comments as it relates to STACK that you would consider a joint venture or – and I think you said potentially consider a divestiture or other monetization.
Can you talk about your goals in considering this? Is there a leverage ratio you're looking to achieve that can be aided by material asset sales or do you see just more synergies based on the competitive landscape if STACK were jointly developed or developed by others? Really as mentioned in here this is just an asset STACK is that that we sure could consider some options with but we're an opportunistic company.
We like to keep our options open and bottom line if there's value that we can create by doing some arrangement like that bring value forward for the shareholders we'd be surely considering doing that.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then sticking a little bit with the capital allocation theme.
Cash flow neutrality it's not necessarily the company's history over the last few years but certainly understandable in the environment that we're in now.
Do you see staying within cash flow as a cyclical objective or a secular objective and particularly as it relates to the MidCon and the Southern region can you talk about the role natural gas prices play in influencing your capital allocation? Well I don't think anybody (35:25) oil pricing environment was so concerned with cash flow neutrality.
Our company wasn't either but we've never been out over the skis with debt; we're still not and in these times it's time stay cash flow neutral.
And so that's what our goal is and that's what we intend to do.
Great.
Thanks.
And how does natural gas prices influence your decision making and particularly in the Southern region? Is it relevant? I know you had some good rate of return charts in one of your slides.
But do these gas prices make sense if you didn't have HBP? Well we look at everything with the rates of return.
And certainly these plays they're great plays and provide a good rate of return and we walked on every one.
Gas prices do impact those plays and as does oil prices.
So yeah we pay attention to them close attention.
I was just going to say we still see that we're getting decent rates of return even down in that $2 range and we've driven down cost to $9.6 down in the SCOOP area and we continue to see efficiency build and specifically some of them that we noted we saw drill times cut in half when we started to go into density drilling and development drilling.
So there's a lot of basically cost reductions still that lie ahead of us there in SCOOP and we're really – as you can see by some of the things we've said we started to already realize those and those are really going to play a factor in the economics and really our decision to continue to drill down there.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Brian it's also very – we're not – these aren't dry gas plays we're in it's a very rich gas.
So as you see a recovery in the oil price you're going to see the overall realization go up not only on the oil but the various NGLs that we've got in there.
So it's a long-term play that is still very economical today but has a great multiplier on it going forward with the commodity coming back up some on the oil side.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Hi Doug.
John just to answer the breakeven question a different way you previously talked about maintenance capital number.
I think it dropped to $1.8 billion to $2 billion.
Where would you say that is now to whole production flat of the exit rate for 2015? (38:10) Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yeah.
If you look to last quarter we indicated that the maintenance capital was $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion and that that would hold production flat at 200 000 to 215 000 a day.
So here we've updated to say that $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion will hold us flat at 200 000 a day.
So you see that's improved a bit.
So you know costs have continued to come down and Jack gave a few of the examples of the efficiencies that we're garnering earlier but it's a long list.
So you know it's tighter by $100 million on both end of that range.
So $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion will hold us flat at 200 000 somewhere around $1.7 billion would give you 215 000 to 210 000 type number.
Got it.
Thank you for that.
Jack my follow-up – I've got two actually if I may.
First of all on the Newy well it seems that you obviously had some fairly substantial reductions in drilling times.
My understanding is that you've taken a little bit more of an integrated service approach there sort of playing some of the service companies up against one another.
I'm wondering if you could give us some idea as to whether you think those rates might be repeatable.
And if so what the implications are for the well costs in the SCOOP.
And I've got one final one please.
Sure Doug I'll let Gary handle that.
Operations</span></strong> Yes we are very pleased with what we're seeing.
We're testing that out with several different service companies.
And what that's allowed us to do is just have better communication among the service companies who are working for us.
It's also allowed our service companies to be in the same mode of frame we are as far as keeping costs down as we bundle different services with them.
It's allowed us to test some new technology.
And then as far as overall cost we expect that bundling should save us about $400 000 per well or more going forward.
But that's still not built into our current estimates because we're still testing that out.
So the $9.6 million on the slide the 7 500 foot lateral that does not reflect any of those efficiencies? Operations</span></strong> That's correct because those are – those efficiencies were still in the early stages of testing.
Got it.
Thank you.
And my final one Jack maybe this one is for you.
But obviously there's a fairly seems like kind of an unclear transition zone in the STACK between the really high gas areas and the oily areas.
So I'm just wondering if you could give us some confidence level about where your acreage is if you feel that it's shallow enough as you see as continuing with those kind of oil cuts that you've seen.
Well Glen you could maybe step in here.
But I'll just say that what we see here right now is that 30% of our acreage as we mentioned is in the what we consider the volatile oil our over pressured oil window and about 60% is in the liquids-rich condensate window.
And to our surprise we're seeing that oil window expand going West based on results.
And so I think we towed 25% of our acreage last time it was in the oil window and now we're seeing it's 30% and we have expectations that could grow from there at this point.
And so in the end still evolving Doug but believe me with the numbers we're giving you here are literally based on well results that we have right now.
Exploration</span></strong> That's right.
Anything else Glen? Exploration</span></strong> Well there is some information that we can't release at this point that gives us a suggestion in the direction that Jack's indicated other people as well.
Right.
All right guys I'll leave it there.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Corales of Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning Brian.
Looking at the Bakken and the 123 well backlog are some of those wells completed just not brought on production? Operations</span></strong> That's correct.
About in the range of 20 wells to 25 wells have been completed and not yet on production.
We expect those to be put on production this quarter.
Is that just based on oil prices or is this something that is wider spread in the Bakken right now? Operations</span></strong> This is just based on pad timing and just the timing getting facilities ready to put them back on.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> We probably weren't as fast in moving on them when oil prices dipped back down but you're seeing them come back on this quarter.
That's part of the reason you're going to see that the oil percentage remain relatively constant in the fourth quarter even though we're not completing incremental wells if you will.
Okay.
Now that makes sense.
And John maybe a question for you.
I felt that was a great move getting kind of – I don't know if you call them term notes but is that – I haven't seen that before.
Is that something that could be upsized and it sounds like it's just through your banks the $500 million term loan? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I think we can do larger if we chose to on that.
We did it with our existing banks and then like I indicated we added a couple of additional institutions.
With that group we were a couple of hundred million or more over subscribed so we could have grown it there.
And frankly we had several banks reaching out to this that would like to enter into our facilities.
So there is optionality it's very unique and creative times and what we're focused on are lowering our cost and maintaining a strong liquidity.
Okay.
And just one – thanks and one final question.
Jack you talked about considering potentially JV'ing or getting a partner for the STACK.
Is that just for any of your assets you're willing to do that? Is something different about the STACK and say the Springer can you maybe just elaborate there? Well I'd just say it's like Northwest Cana.
We brought in a JV partner there it was an idle asset that we thought it made sense to bring in a partner bring some of that value forward and we did that.
And so it isn't just STACK we'd consider this another assets.
But there is a – being that a lot of what's going on in the STACK is actually new and completely incremental to the company.
I mean we have no reserves on the books no production.
It's an asset that's all easier to do that and then one that it has a lot of history of drilling and a lot of existing production and what have you.
So it makes it – just tease it up a little bit better to do something like that.
That makes sense.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Brian.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the Noel Parks of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I was wondering turning to the Springer for a second.
Can we get an update on the land situation there upon announcing the play you've had to go get some swallow rights on some of the acreage I wonder if that process is pretty much done or still had ways to go? This is Steve Owen Noel.
Yes it's ongoing.
Our core Springer right now is 211 our core overall is 258 we're actually higher than that at this point.
Those are in the third quarter numbers.
It's an evolving process and never stops for us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
And...
That does include over 10 acquisitions also in addition to pre-leasing we're just – we're on the ground every day.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And in the SCOOP I think last quarter you were talking a bit about having done some micro-seismic studies in the SCOOP I just wondered if you have any results or insight from that? Yes we did a micro-seismic shoot in our May unit.
We did it on two different wells and tested different types of completion techniques and we got really good data and we've used that to model our enhanced completions in the area going forward.
Yeah.
In fact that micro-seismic project was really beneficial because we actually did some modifications on the fly as we were monitoring the micro-seismic events in our stimulation.
So it's a very good project for us because it gave us some really new perspectives and added perspectives that will pay dividends going forward.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And just what sort of modifications did you mean? Was it proppant loading or changing the pages going forward? Operations</span></strong> Yeah this is Gary Gould.
Some of the enhanced completions that we're looking at in the South on the SCOOP and STACK properties are associated with shorter stage lengths but especially profit loading that's really the biggest change.
We're seeing a lot better rates which we (47:35) to higher EURs also associated with being more sand away in our completions.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And my last one John had mentioned regarding CapEx for the quarter something about non-operated completion activity was – what was included.
Was that in the particular region Bakken SCOOP? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> All right it was spread across the company we saw a higher level of non-op activity in the cost come in than what we had modeled in September.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And you think sort of a onetime or sort of a seasonal trend just as we're heading into winter in the Bakken or...
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> There are a variety of reasons with timing.
Some of it's probably you saw a little bit of a spike in the late summer in oil prices.
And they provide in a little more and Bakken off now would be my expectation.
But we've modeled that actively and we closely follow but it is – it can be a variable at times.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
That's all from me.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
For your year-end 2015 exit rate what will be the production mix will it be similar to the 64% to 65% you mentioned for Q4? And then as you look out on 2016 do you think your production mix will get gassier? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> For the exit rate we will be close to that probably closer to the top end of that to 65% more so but that would be our expectation.
For 2016 there is a lot of active modeling going on right now.
So we'll guide you on that when we put out the 2016 guidance here in the couple of months.
It really depends on the deployment of capital and the timing of completion activity back in the Bakken.
That is something that I want to point out that we can easily reverse that percentage trend by just dedicating more money to the Bakken than we have in the last 9 months to 12 months.
Great.
I would just mentioned there that there is – I've heard there is discussion about the mix getting a little more gassy and it's really just an allocation of capital thing.
I mean our assets haven't changed.
I mean the SCOOP and Bakken are still exactly where – that's just where we're choosing to put the dollars right now.
And we're looking at HBP'ing acreage and there's just a lot of variables in here but as far as the mix is concerned corporately I mean our mix hasn't really changed.
And then at what oil price would you be willing to allocate some more capital to the Bakken and start moving that mix oil here? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> It depends on where we see supply and demand going.
I mean when we see prices firm feel a little stronger we can get a little more aggressive on the oil side.
But right now we're comfortable with what we're doing right now because we're HBP'ing acreage and we're expanding STACK.
I mean that's a great thing and what we're producing in STACK is 73% to 79% oil.
In fact our Ludwig well I think is flowing like 83% oil.
So we're working on some oily products or oily reservoirs right now.
Pearce that's kind of a layered answer also in that we've got docks that we would work off that's probably in a lower price than where we would put an incremental rig back into play.
So there's a good mix and there's a lot of flexibility that we have and just part of the understanding and how quickly we can really reverse that when we choose to.
Great.
One last one from me.
What are your expectations for further service cost declines in 2016 versus 2015 on a percentage basis? Operations</span></strong> This is Gary Gould.
Over the next several quarters I would expect through a combination of vendor (51:45) cost reductions on top of our operational efficiencies that we ought to be able to gain another 5% to 10% over the next several quarters.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Marshall Carver of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your line is open.
Yes you're off to a very good start in the STACK and looks like most of your activity so far has been at Eastern Blaine County.
When would you plan on testing the stuff over in Dewey or maybe in Custer counties would you get to that in 2016? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yes I think we're – the play has been obviously developing from East to West and so the play has been historically in the under pressured part of the play and we've now gone through a step function where we jumped into the Ludwig area which is the over pressure and we'll – we see it as a real steady westerly flow of development.
And so we will certainly get to our acreage positions to the West.
But we're benefited there by our Northwest Cana JV where we're developing Woodford and HBP'ing acreage there is a benefit of that – that five rig program.
Okay.
Have you seen anything I guess you've drilled through the Meramec with your Northwest Cana wells.
What have you seen to make you excited that the wells...
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Well that's yeah...
...to drill? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I'll take that one too.
Every day – every week we're pulling a log of our Meramec rights.
We did not transfer Meramec Osage rights within our Northwest Cana.
We're seeing us go from 600 feet over in the Kingfisher area to depths of 700 to 1 200 total feet as we move to the West.
And what we're seeing is just exceptional log sections and shows that we'll be providing to you in the future in much greater detail.
Very encouraging results.
Yeah.
He's being specific about the Meramec interval and I'll just add too that probably 30% of the wells we drill have got additional pay behind pipe that we've encountered on the way down.
And that's in the Springer the Manning the Chester.
So we're really pleased with what we're seeing here.
And really this is just – we're just starting to be able to come out and tell you some of the things we see going on in here and in the next few months quarters.
We're going to be able to bring a lot more information to the table here to show just what a terrific asset this looks like that we have.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yeah.
I would just add real briefly that we're talking about roughly twice the thickness of the pay as we move west that's been developed to date by the others in the industry.
And we're talking about up to twice the pressure.
So those two additives are leading us in the right direction.
And the thing again I just got to repeat is 60% of this is HBP'ed.
And so we really don't have a backup against loss those big to try to get things HBP'ed.
And then we can really strategically step out and develop our perspective of this play as we want.
And so we're just in a very good situation here and I think there is a lot more good news to come from this play.
All right.
And one follow-up on the oil window versus the condensate window is there a specific commodity mix is it 75% oil and greater you're calling the oil window or how are you defining that? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> We are defining the what we call black oil to 1 800 gas oil ratio from 1 800 to 10 000 gas oil ratio we're calling that our volatile oil and 10 000 to a 100 000 is our liquid-rich condensate.
And obviously above that is dry gas.
That's how we analyze most of our plays.
Okay.
Thank you very much and congrats on the early results.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Subash Chandra of Guggenheim Securities.
Your line is open.
Another question on STACK.
Other than thickness and over pressure how consistent are the rock characteristics from east to west? Operations</span></strong> Well they only get better is what we've examined across our acreage position.
We're seeing processes becoming more and more enhanced as we head deeper into the basin to the west.
That happens in a lot of our plays by the way.
Yeah.
And what's great about these say like – say the Meramec here Subash is that I mean this is porosity you can see on the logs.
A lot of this stuff that we've looked at and worked with in the Woodford I mean it's really tough to find the porosity on logs that you're dealing with nanodarcy perms and things and this is some reservoir rock you can look at on logs and see it.
So it's real encouraging both from volume in place to the recovery factors.
Okay.
Is it – so it's equally would you say it's equally shaley and dry water wise as to the east? Operations</span></strong> Yes in general the areas – the wells don't recover much of their load.
We go on – you'll hear us and other operators talk about day two or three we're making 500 plus barrels a day and 1 000 barrels on day four or five.
The water has been driven out of this petroleum system during the generation phase is what we believe and that's why the water doesn't flow back.
So...
It's completely different from the Mississippi play to the north.
Operations</span></strong> Yeah they couldn't be any more different really.
Do you think you're recovering mainly – you think you're recovering mainly Woodford sourced hydrocarbons or do you think the Meramec plays a role in generation there? Operations</span></strong> Well we're early in our evaluation but our current belief is that the Woodford is sourcing the entire petroleum system here.
Okay.
As for the JV I get it's a hot play people want it.
How do you sort of juggle assets sales versus JV? Are asset sales in 2016 off the table as a cash inflow? And a JV is upfront cash sort of a necessary component to any transaction? Well...
Operations</span></strong> Go ahead Jack.
I was going to say we'll just keep our options open.
I mean surely more cash upfront would be beneficial to us because it gives us more optionality it gives us some cash to work from and could pay down some debt.
But in the end we consider any kind of options.
Okay.
And asset sales? I mean bottom line is just be value driven what's the best value for us and our shareholders.
And I think we mentioned earlier the simplistic nature of this I mean this is basically a new play – a whole lot (59:13) development through it.
So it happens a lot it could happen a lot easier here.
Right.
Okay.
And one final one for me.
The $50 cash flow neutrality others have cited it as well and they seek to hedge at $50.
Is there intention on your part to hedge at $50? There's not.
All right.
Perfect.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Grigel of Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
As you guys talk about cash flow neutrality into 2016 and the roughly $1.7 billion number at 210 000 you mentioned another 5% to 10% of cost savings.
Is that built in and is there any additional LOE savings built into those estimates? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> We kept LOE and most of the variables are fairly flat with what we're experiencing.
So there may be some upside to that for us.
I think I would point to what we said $1.7 billion might be a little bit of an outspend.
So I think you would probably see a level that's going to be less than that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And can you guys provide an update on...
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> That's why we give a lot of sensitivities on the ranges and stuff.
So you can see the various variables that we're working through but our plan and our target in this current price environment is to target neutrality.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Definitely understood.
Can you guys provide an update on the latest thoughts on what your corporate decline rate is either today or as you head into 2016? Operations</span></strong> This is Gary Gould I can comment on that.
Our corporate decline rate's in the mid 30%s and we'll be updating that more at year-end when we talk about year-end reserves.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then last one for me on differentials.
Obviously they've tightened up as mentioned in the guidance.
When you look at just specifically to the Bakken a lot more on pipe you guys still have about 25% on rail.
Are you seeing rail having to cut its prices and if so is it through the rail providers or is it the end market refineries there? Well we have – this is Jeff Hume.
We have seen some of the rail costs go down.
Cars are much cheaper than they were.
We haven't seen much movement from the rail service itself but I would expect some of that to happen as more and more trains are stacked but there's still good demand from rail customers.
Pipe is getting stronger Line 9 is opening up next month going – Enbridge Line 9 going to Montréal and the Southern Access Pipeline going down to – Patoka is opening up so you're seeing improvement in both Bakken and the Syncrude markets in that area.
So I think we have additional competition up in the Bakken area.
And the refiners are seeing the value of the refined barrel and they're paying for that.
And so we're seeing differentials improve that way also.
It's not just in transportation but also additional value being passed to us from their realizations at the refinery.
Inc.</span></strong> And is it your intention to always maintain some rail for flexibility going forward and if so is there a percentage? Well we'll make – as always we'll have a basket approach and we'll be reaching out to the best markets on a monthly basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Biju Perincheril of Susquehanna.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Quick question clarification on the maintenance CapEx budget does that assume that you work off the uncompleted well backlog at all or is that...
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> No sir.
That assumes that we – what we drilled we complete next year.
But that we keep the backlog relatively flat year-over-year.
That's part of the optionality.
Obviously we could – for fewer capital dollars we could go work that down and drill less.
So we still have a lot of flexibility and optionality but what we've given you assumes it stays flat.
Okay.
So the eight rigs that you're running in the Bakken what is the flexibility you have to drop those and in 2016 catch up on the backlog? Yes.
In 2016 we'll be beginning with eight rigs beginning of the year and then over the year we have five rigs out of the eight rigs that our contracts expires we've flexibility to go down to three rigs.
And when you're talking about the $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion is that assuming the current rig count stays flat or going down to those rigs? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Let me clear we're getting a couple of numbers mixed up there.
What we've got in our – if you look at our investor slides and what I said in the script it's $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion basically would be cash flow neutrality next year.
That's assuming a little bit of a mix between a fewer rigs and putting some completion crews back in the different asset basin.
So it's working it down a little as Gary gave some reference too.
The $1.7 billion that was I think the previous question and that would hold us flat at $2.10 billion to $2.15 billion but right now I think we target the lower end to that range the 200 000 Boe.
Got it.
Thank you.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Hi Matt.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just one quick follow-up on the STACK in terms of your acreage breakdown could you give us maybe a little bit of color around how much you think you've delineated so far with your well control on the Eastern part of Blaine County.
And then I guess can – around that same comments how much acreage do you have kind of in Dewey and Custer? I'll start out and just say that really because of well control out here the existing well control and Glen you can give some more color on this.
But we're actually – a lot of the reservoirs we're targeting in the Meramec and Osage are fairly well delineated.
And so we actually again best both of world with HBP acreage plus penetration allow us to delineate the reservoir.
But Glen can you touch on just the density of growing well control? Exploration</span></strong> Right.
Part of the reason that our acreage is in the right place is its position for development of Woodford early and through that process we have modern logs over a 105 digital logs that penetrated and we can study.
In addition there is 575 old older logs that we also use so this is not a – we know exactly where these reservoirs are.
This is not exploration at this point.
This is just definition.
And this is really the world – a great class asset that we have and we're in our early innings in our drilling but I think we're – we've advanced our understanding to a pretty high level over the last year in terms of where we're going.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up question on previous comment on service cost.
Just curious if you could comment specific to the Bakken as we've heard from some of the service industry they're continuing to kind of reduce activity in the basin as they core up their own crews.
How do you guys see access to service as the industry's slowed down and as you head into 2016 particularly around the completion side of the equation is there any risk that it may not be capacity available or you still feel very comfortable that there is plenty available at this point? There's plenty available.
The key for any oil and gas company is going to be just communication far enough ahead of time to bring those crews back.
And so that will not be a problem for us.
There's plenty of spare capacity with activity down 60% for every crew running there is 1.5 crews out there as far as equipment.
And we're talking to service companies every day and they're going to be able to get the people back.
These are great jobs so people are excited about coming back to our industry.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Dan Guffey of Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Two follow-ups on the Meramec.
I guess first can you talk about potentials GOR increase over time from what you've seen out of your Ludwig well? Operations</span></strong> This is Gary Gould and I can talk a little bit about that.
On our Ludwig well we have pinched it back.
What we're trying to do is produce it the best way we can to maximize our value for the long-term.
And so what we find is when we pinch it back a little bit we don't go below the bubble point as quickly and it keeps gas in the reservoir which continues to provide energy to produce it.
And so those are some of the things we're testing right now and we'll learn more about that over time.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then the first three wells were they all landed in the same portion of the Meramec being either upper middle or lower obviously you guys have a thick reservoir there and then I guess the next four wells you're completing are those going to be landed in the same zones or are they kind of tested – are you testing all different areas? We drilled – our initial drilling program was focusing on acreage that we needed in HBP.
So it's all focused on one area and is primarily targeting the lower most bench of the lower Meramec.
With the exception of the Marks where we actually drilled in the upper – the second bench up in the lower Meramec and then went down to the lower one in a toe-down orientation.
We have drilled in areas where we have much thicker part of the section but we're yet to complete those wells.
That's the Bowden well and that's coming up soon.
So we're looking at different targeting intervals in it from area to area but it's very – really pretty consistent.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I guess acknowledging you guys are still trying the HBP 40% of the acreage I guess when does it make sense to do a spacing pilot which would be in the lateral spacing and I guess the STACK in staggered portions? Well we obviously like to try those things very early and integrate micro-seismic and core data.
We are in the planning stages for that but we're not ready to release any plans and dates for that at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for all the details (70:22) guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time.
I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Hamm for closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for joining us today.
We appreciate your interest in Continental and as we've had a wonderful performance this quarter and very very solid performance by all of our staff and all of our teams land everybody included it's been great.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Continental Resources Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder today's program is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's program Mr.
Warren Henry Vice President of Investor Relations and Research.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jonathan.
I'd like to welcome everyone to today's call.
Joining us today with prepared remarks are Harold Hamm Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Stark President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Also on the call this morning and available for Q&amp;A will be Jeff Hume Vice Chairman of Strategic Initiatives; Glen Brown Senior Vice President Exploration; Gary Gould Senior Vice President Production and Resource Development; Pat Bent Senior Vice President Drilling; and Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land.
Our call today will contain forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
In addition Continental does not undertake any obligation in the future to update our forward-looking statements made on this call.
Also on the call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to generally accepted accounting principles please refer to the updated investor presentation that has been posted on our website at www.clr.com.
To begin this morning I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Hamm for his comments.
Thank you Warren and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining our call today.
Continental ended 2015 with a solid fourth quarter that was characterized by continued positive trends in key operating and financial metrics strong production low operating cost and effective discipline as we work to balance cash flow with capital expenditures.
Production was 224 900 Boe per day as we anticipated just a small reduction in the third quarter 2015 as we scaled back well completion activities.
We continued to reduce operating cost per Boe of production with a fourth quarter result of $3.86 per Boe in production expense cash G&amp;A expenses were also very favorable at $1.68 per Boe of production.
These positive trends were delivered despite the third quarter to fourth quarter's declined production which is yet another testament to our operating team's focus on efficiency and cost discipline.
Finally despite a significant decline in oil prices through the fourth quarter we managed to end 2015 with fourth quarter capital expenditures almost in balance with cash flow.
For 2015 as a whole we came in under our total CapEx budget by $200 million in line with the outlook we shared on our third quarter earnings call in early November 2015.
So we ended 2015 with a solid disciplined quarterly performance and we really look ahead.
Now I want to focus on Continental's future and two recent accomplishments that should pay big dividends for all of us moving forward.
First we announced our continued success in delineating the over-pressured STACK play in Oklahoma.
Second we have significantly increased recovery per well in the SCOOP Woodford with enhanced completions in the condensate window.
Jack will provide greater detail on these achievements.
The key point is exploration success and technology improvement are ongoing and these plays just keep getting better.
This is not simply Continental's view.
Several analysts recently identified the core Bakken SCOOP Woodford SCOOP Springer and STACK as top quartile resource plays in the United States.
Based on the analysts' expected rates of return in these plays like Continental they see these as the premier value plays for growth when commodity markets rebalance and prices do recover.
They are the platforms in which Continent will build shareholder value and the recovery and beyond.
We expect the process of rebalancing and recovery will start in the next six months to nine months.
As the process gets underway Continental will remain disciplined with their capital spending and cost control.
We're preparing to grow prudently with discipline a very measured approach to maximize price once we confirm that the eventual price recovery is sustainable long-term and not just a spike like we had in mid-2015.
The market will rebalance and when it does we'll be prepared to operate likewise in a changed market environment.
With the U.S.
crude oil export ban finally lifted we have a historic opportunity to again reestablish the United States as the world energy leader as it was in 1950s and 1960s based on truly free world energy markets.
We must reestablish growth that reinforces U.S.
energy security benefits our country's economy and brings hundreds of thousands of jobs back to the oilfield and related industries.
I believe and I've testified in Congress that free trade of crude oil will reduce overall price volatility especially to the degree that we've seen in 2008 2009 and the past 18 months.
The industry will again attract the investment capital required for the next stage of the American Energy Renaissance and deliver to American consumers a stable low cost supply of transportation power generation fuels that will support economic growth for everyone.
In closing let me say again how proud I am of the Continental team and how they performed this past quarter and in 2015 as a whole.
We demonstrated the quality of our people our established culture and our assets.
I'm confident the benefits will accrue to our shareholders in the not-so-distant future.
With that I'll turn the call over to Jack Stark.
Thanks Harold and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us on our call today.
I want to echo Harold's comments regarding our employees and thank them for doing a tremendous job in 2015.
The technical advancements and operational efficiencies they developed during 2015 and our ongoing efforts in 2016 will pay dividends for Continental and shareholders for years to come.
Today I'm going to focus on some important results from our drilling and completion activities in the over-pressured STACK and SCOOP Woodford plays.
I will start with the over-pressured STACK where we couldn't be more pleased with the performance of the Meramec wells we have completed to date.
Since our first recompletions reported last year we've completed three additional Meramec wells and I have to say the results are quite impressive.
Bottom line these STACK wells are delivering some the best rates of return in the company and rank among the best performing wells I've ever been involved with in my 35-year career.
The three new wells were strategically located to demonstrate repeatability and expand the known productive footprint of the Meramec underlying our 155 000 net acres in STACK.
The largest of the three new producers is the Boden 1-15-10XH well which flowed at an exceptional 24-hour rate of 1 000 barrels of oil in 15 million cubic feet of gas per day or 3 508 barrels of oil equivalent per day from a 9 800 foot Meramec horizontal.
It's important to point out that the Boden well produced this rate at a flowing casing pressure of approximately 5 400 PSI reflecting the strength of the well and the benefit of the over-pressured nature of the Meramec reservoir underlying our acreage.
The Boden was a significant step out located 16 miles southwest of our Ludwig well and represents our deepest and most over-pressured test of the Meramec reservoir to date at a vertical depth of 12 550 feet.
The Boden has been producing for 82 days and most of that time it's been produced on a restricted choke.
During that time it produced approximately 144 000 barrels of oil equivalent with 28% of the production being oil.
The well continues to flow at a restricted rate of 410 barrels of oil and 6 300 Mcf per day at approximately 5 350 PSI flowing casing pressure.
The other two new producers were the Compton 1-2-35XH and the Blurton 1-7-6XH which are located five miles southwest and three miles northwest of our original Ludwig well respectively.
The Compton flowed at an initial 24-hour rate of 2 547 barrels of oil equivalent per day at a flowing casing pressure of 2 850 PSI and 71% of the production was oil.
The Blurton flowed at a initial 24-hour rate of 2 328 barrels of oil equivalent per day at a flowing casing pressure of 2 775 PSI and 78% of the oil – production was oil.
The Compton has produced approximately 80 000 barrels of oil equivalent in its first 41 days online and the Blurton has produced approximately 54 000 barrels of oil equivalent during its first 34 days online.
Both wells continue to produce at restricted rates of 1 670 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 1 695 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively.
The performance of these three wells continues to support our observation that wells completed in the over-pressured window of STACK produce at rates three times higher than was completed in normally pressured window of STACK during the first 90 days on a normalized 9 800-foot basis.
This bodes well for Continental as approximately 95% of our 155 000 net acres of STACK are located in the over-pressured window.
In addition to announcing three new producers yesterday we also introduced our preliminary economic model for wells completed in the over-pressured oil window of STACK.
We define the oil window as areas where oil – where the oil and gas ratio was less than or equal to 10 000 to 1.
Based on the early time performance of 14 Meramec wells completed by Continental and others in the over-pressured oil window of STACK our estimated ultimate recovery for a 9 800-foot lateral well currently stands at 1.7 million barrels of oil equivalent per well.
This delivers a 55% rate of return at a completed well cost of $10 million assuming $40 WTI and $2.25 per Mcf gas.
The $10 million completed well cost reflects the cost of drilling in the deeper over-pressured oil window of STACK where intermediate casing is required.
We currently believe approximately 30% of our acreage lies within the oil – over-pressured oil window of STACK.
By comparison the economics of the over-pressured oil window of STACK rank among the best opportunities in the U.S.
We will develop our economic model for the over-pressured condensate window as more data becomes available but I'll have to say that with the Boden well as our first over-pressured condensate well we expect the economics will also rank among the best in the U.S.
Now let's move on to the SCOOP Woodford where technical teams have raised the bar of performance once again.
Over the past year our teams have tested various enhanced completion techniques on 15 wells over a broad geographic area in the SCOOP condensate window.
Proppant per foot was a key variable ranging from 900 pounds up to 1 800 pounds per foot.
All 15 of these wells are outperforming the legacy offset wells completed with our standard completion.
Seven of the wells have 90 to 180 days of production history and showed production lift of 30% to 35% compared to legacy offset wells.
Based on the performance of these enhanced completed wells we have updated our economic model for our 7 500-foot Woodford condensate well.
In our new model we have increased our expected UR 15% from 1.7 million barrels of oil equivalent per well to 2 million barrels of oil equivalent per well.
The incremental cost for an enhanced completion is approximately $400 000 which is more than justified based on the improved performance of the wells.
This puts the current cost of an enhanced completion well at $9.9 million.
We fully expect these costs will decline during 2016 through efficiencies and we are targeting a completed well cost of $9.6 million.
At the targeted cost of $9.6 million an enhanced completed well generates a 25% rate of return assuming $40 WTI and $2.25 per Mcf gas.
Going forward all SCOOP wells will be completed using enhanced completions.
Testing of these in higher proppant volumes will be conducted during the year as we continue to seek the optimal completion design.
Recent tests using these higher proppant volumes are showing promising results.
One other highlight from SCOOP Woodford I'd like to mention is the Vanarkel density pilot.
The Vanarkel is our third density pilot to be completed in the condensate fairway.
The other two included the 10-well Poteet and Honeycutt pilots.
The Poteet has been producing for about 350 days the Honeycutt approximately 250 days and the Vanarkel almost 70 days.
The key point I want to make is that all wells and the pilots continue to produce at rates above our type curve and to date have shown no signs of well interference.
This is quite significant as it helps validate our vision for full field development.
We currently have two additional density pilots underway including the eight-well Newy pilot that is completing right now and the 10-well Sympson pilot that is drilling.
And finally before turning the call over to John I'd like to mention a few highlights from the Bakken.
Over the course of 2015 the Bakken team doubled capital efficiency and cut finding costs in half by moving to the core reducing cycle times and lowering costs.
In 2016 our Bakken drilling program will continue to focus on the core with four rigs targeting average EURs of 900 000 barrels of oil per well.
We will defer completing the majority of our Bakken wells in 2016 with the projected year-end DUC inventory of approximately 195 gross operated wells compared to approximately 135 gross operated wells at year-end 2015.
We are deferring the Bakken completions because one we don't want to bring on more barrels in this low price environment.
Two we have the flexibility to defer completions since our acreage is essentially HBP.
And three it reduces CapEx and four it leaves us with a significant inventory of high-quality wells to complete as prices improve.
This DUC inventory will have an average EUR of approximately 850 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well and represents a valuable asset for the company that will be a strong catalyst for future growth.
With that I'll turn the call over to John.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</strong> Thank you Jack.
Good morning everyone.
2015 results reflected our continued focus on cost and efficiency.
Revenue for the full year was $2.7 billion and EBITDAX was $2 billion both reflecting weakening commodity prices over the course of the year.
Continental reported a net loss of $354 million or $0.96 per share for the full year 2015.
Adjusted to exclude impairments non-cash gains and losses on derivatives and gains and losses on asset sales the annual net loss was $116 million or $0.31 per diluted share.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $575 million and EBITDAX was $420 million.
Net loss for the fourth quarter was $140 million or $0.38 per diluted share.
Adjusted net loss was $87 million or $0.23 per diluted share for the fourth quarter.
Offsetting some of the commodity price impact was healthy production growth.
Full year production came in at 221 715 Boe per day a 27% increase year-over-year.
Production averaged approximately 225 000 Boe per day in the fourth quarter.
Oil production was 66% of total production for full year 2015 and 65% for fourth quarter 2015.
As previously mentioned the oil percentage of total production is expected to average 60% in 2016 due to our deferral of Bakken completions and greater capital focus in SCOOP and STACK.
Longer term we can reverse this ratio quickly as we complete our DUC backlog in the Bakken and as we deploy greater capital to the Springer and STACK in Oklahoma.
Non-acquisition capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were $394 million right in line with expectations bringing full-year non-acquisition capital expenditures to $2.5 billion $200 million below the 2015 budget.
Operating cost performance continued to be very strong throughout the year.
Our cash cost for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 came in either within or better than guidance.
Production expense dropped to $3.86 per Boe in the fourth quarter down from $4 in the third quarter.
Full-year production expense averaged $4.30 per Boe down 23% compared to $5.58 per Boe for full-year 2014.
Fourth quarter G&amp;A excluding equity compensation decreased by $0.27 to $1.68 per Boe versus $1.95 per Boe in the third quarter.
Non-cash equity compensation dropped to $0.56 per Boe of production down from $0.61 in the third quarter.
Total cash cost including interest was lower at $11.47 per Boe in the fourth quarter down an impressive 35% from full-year 2014.
Combined these low operating costs provide us with one of the strongest cash margin percentages in the industry.
This provides a strong competitive advantage for Continental not only in today's price environment but also in a recovering market as margins will scale back up with commodity prices.
The fourth quarter oil differential was $7.71 per barrel while full year was $8.33 both within guidance.
Approximately 80% of our Bakken production is now delivered to market via pipeline.
As noted in prior quarters we believe improvement in oil differentials will continue as additional pipeline capacity becomes available in the Bakken and the SCOOP and STACK contribute an increased share of total company production.
The fourth quarter gas differential was a negative $0.20 per Mcf improving 63% from the third quarter while full-year 2015 averaged $0.34 per Mcf.
Now I'd like to turn to this year's outlook.
For 2016 our capital budget of $920 million is focused on spending within cash flow.
This budget is cash flow-neutral at an average WTI price of $37 for the year.
As previously noted a move in WTI prices by $5 would impact our full-year cash flow by $150 million to $200 million.
We will continue to monitor the macro environment and make additional adjustments as necessary.
We are a very nimble company with plenty of optionality.
Many of you are looking beyond 2016 to 2017.
As we've done in the past we will endeavor to provide a longer-term view as we progress through 2016.
2017 provides significant opportunities to CLR.
We will have a great deal of optionality in terms of how we begin working down our DUC inventory.
As previously disclosed we anticipate exiting 2016 with approximately gross 245 DUCs with 195 in the Bakken and 50 in Oklahoma.
Obviously commodity prices will be the primary factor in the pace and timing of completing our DUCs.
This flexibility provides a wide range of possibilities in terms of 2017 maintenance capital and production.
As examples if we choose to target holding 2017 production flat at the low end of our projected 2016 exit rate of 180 000 Boe per day this would imply 2017 CapEx of $800 million to $900 million while maintaining a flat DUC inventory throughout 2017.
As another option if WTI prices were to increase to the low-$40s to mid-$40s we can see – have higher CapEx in the $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion range while still being cash flow-neutral.
In this case we would expect to increase 2017 production to an average of approximately 200 000 Boe per day with a significantly higher exit rate.
These two scenarios are based on current cost and both target cash flow neutrality.
Ultimate plans for 2017 will evolve and depend on a number of variables including commodity prices and market stability.
We remain fully focused on capital efficiency and may well see enhancements to these scenarios as we progress through the year and enter 2017.
Back in November we indicated we remain committed to maintaining our investment-grade rating.
Since that time the credit agencies significantly reduced their price deck projections and therefore based on the changed price outlook we and numerous other E&amp;P companies were downgraded.
Though we are disappointed to lose the rating at S&amp;P and Moody's I want to point out that this doesn't have a material impact on the business.
The only change is to the interest rate on the revolver and term loan.
We anticipate this downgrade will increase interest expense by approximately $3 million to $4 million annually.
Otherwise our credit facility structure is unchanged.
The terms of our other long-term debt are also unchanged.
We are and will remain in regular communication with both agencies.
We will continue to manage our business in a prudent and thoughtful manner as our long-term view for operating the company is unchanged.
We continue to have ample liquidity and no near-term debt maturities.
At the end of December we had $853 million of borrowings against the credit facility.
Long-term debt only increased by $7 million in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter.
As of February 19 we have $830 million of borrowings against the revolver providing approximately $1.9 billion in available borrowing capacity under the facility.
Let me point out again that the revolver is unsecured and there are no terms in the facility that would mandate collateral or a borrowing-based calculation coming into place.
The revolver's sole financial covenant is a debt to total capitalization ratio of no greater than $0.65.
And as of December 31 the company's debt to total capitalization was $0.58.
Under the terms of the credit agreement this calculation of total capitalization specifically excludes any non-cash impairment charges after mid-2014.
I would like to conclude by commenting on all that we achieved in the past year despite headwinds in the market.
We achieved our 2015 goals to continue to deliver outstanding production results lower operating cost and to continue striving to balance cash flow with capital expenditures.
We delivered across the board and essentially achieved cash flow neutrality by the end of the year.
With that we're ready to begin the Q&amp;A section of our call.
Operator? Certainly.
Our first question comes from the line of Brian Corales from Howard Weil.
Your question please.
Hey guys.
Good morning and congratulations on such a good update.
I think last quarter Jack you talked about the potential JV in the STACK and based on these well results is that kind of off the table? What is your thoughts there? Yeah.
These results are pretty exceptional.
And we always keep options open but at this point I think it behooves us to continue to develop this asset and that's what we're planning on doing right now.
Okay.
And then just one more question on – on the DUCs obviously you want – is there a certain price you're looking for? And especially in Oklahoma if you're seeing kind of these improved results is that something that you could complete sooner than maybe originally thought when you set out your plan? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Brian I think we're going to be patient on that.
We'll let those build up some here but we're going to look for higher prices.
I think if you look to where you would put incremental dollars the first place you would go is to debt reduction in the DUCs so we'll balance between those two.
We're looking for – we don't have a set price but it's somewhere in the mid $40s to upper $40s likely closer to $50.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your question please.
Yes.
In the STACK it looks like you have some more step out wells planned for 2016 this time more in Western Blaine.
When would you expect those to be put on line? Would those be late in the year or could we get some results on those this spring or summer? We have – we have a well out to the west it's called Anderson Halfwell I think would be on line – would be on line in probably a couple months.
We're currently drilling that well and the results will follow accordingly with normal release procedures.
Yeah Marshall.
If you look at the – there is a map in our slide deck there for the STACK area.
And what you can see is about two-thirds of our wells are going to be drilled up in the over-pressured oil window this year and about one-third will be stepping out into the condensate window further to the west.
And we call it the condensate window; we're really still evaluating the limits of the oil window.
As we move to the west of Boden it did push the liquids content further west or southwest.
And so we're going to continue in our step-outs to assess this.
And so right now we think about 30% of our acreage is within the over-pressured oil window.
That may grow and we're going – through this additional drilling that you're pointing out – we'll ultimately get a handle on where the condensate window is and where do we encounter dry gas.
Okay.
Thank you.
And one follow-up the enhanced completions in the SCOOP it looks like those were in the condensate window.
Have you tried enhanced completions in the oil window or in the Springer or do you have any plans for that? Operations</span></strong> Yes.
This is Gary Gould.
And we have tested it in the oil window also.
We are coming forward with the condensate type curve right now because 80% of the completion work and drilling work that we plan to do this year is in the condensate window.
But as we look at the oil window we've been testing enhanced completions there and see similar improved rates of around 30% 35%.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Subash Chandra from Guggenheim.
Your question please.
Yeah.
Quick – first one is a quick one.
There's no letters of credit that have to be posted because of debt downgrade? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> No.
We – I mean we've got some very small ones.
Recognize we were only upgraded to investment grade about two three years ago.
So it hasn't been that long.
You didn't see significant ones before.
We don't have any significant pressure and we haven't posted any since the downgrade.
It's just not a material item to us.
Got it.
Okay.
And my second one is what are the infrastructure needs in the STACK area between the oil and the condensate window? Are there any limitations there? This is Jeff Hume Subash.
And there are not – there is very good infrastructure already in place and we're very close to Cushing.
So we – and we also are blessed with several refineries in the state that are out actively buying in the field.
So we see absolutely no problems at all with infrastructure.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram from JPMorgan.
Your question please.
Yeah.
My first question it seems like one of the takeaways from the earnings season – I know Marathon mentioned this on their call – is that the core or a core of the STACK is moving a bit westward.
I did wanted to see Jack if you can maybe just talk about the implications from the Boden well in terms of de-risking inventory.
Sure.
There is – there is two levels of de-risking that we need to address here.
One is geologic de-risking.
And there are like over 500 penetrations in the – like on our map that – underneath our acreage that allows us to essentially map out the geology of the STACK petroleum system.
So from a geologic perspective the STACK play is de-risked.
So what we're doing now with the wells that we're drilling is we're essentially demonstrating the productivity and the type of productivity these reservoirs will deliver.
And so at this point we started out here with our first Ludwig well and some of the others that have been drilled in the play and thought maybe 20%-25% of our acreage was in the oil – over-pressured oil window.
Well now we think it's 30% and it could continue to grow as you point out because of the high liquids content that we're seeing there in our Boden well.
And so we're still evaluating through the bit to determine just where are the limits of the oil window where are the limits of the condensate window? But yes you're right we have seen the liquids-rich portion of the play I guess you could say moving further west than really anybody thought.
Great great.
And my follow-up just regarding just E&amp;P capital markets.
They've been relatively wide open as we think about quarter-to-date over $5 billion of E&amp;P equity.
You guys are blessed with a really high-quality set of assets.
So I was just wondering about potentially looking towards equity markets maybe to – given just the uncertainty in the overall macro environment.
Yeah.
We're just not interested in diluting the shareholders with an equity offering particularly at prices we're paying here today and what would we need money for.
We wouldn't drill anymore if we had it.
We just don't want to bring anything else on in this environment until we see recovery happen.
That's very helpful.
Thanks a lot Harold.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Drew Venker from Morgan Stanley.
Your question please.
Good morning everyone.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Hey Drew.
I was hoping you could just talk to the variability of the well performance used to construct that Meramec type curve.
Yeah.
Yes.
I can talk to it.
The Meramec type curve was evaluated based on all the data that we had available to us that had daily data.
So a lot of it was our wells; we had five that were our wells we had nine other wells that we had data for also.
And we were able to normalize it for lateral lengths and we're seeing good production performance there for both the 1-mile laterals as well as the 2-mile laterals And about half the wells are 9 800-foot laterals so we feel like we've got a good representative data set there.
Okay.
And do I have that right and understanding that there's a number of non-operated wells that used to help construct that in addition to your own operated wells? Yes.
Five of ours and nine non-op that I remember.
Okay.
We're really – Drew we're really seeing pretty impressive repeatability out here that's one of the things that's really encouraging.
And – so we've seen a lot of these plays as they've evolved and this one probably showing the most continuity as far as repeatability as any I've been involved with.
Yeah.
The results look great.
On the financial side a while back maybe less than a year ago at this point you talked about being interested to hedge at some point but at prices above the curve which I think what you were saying at that point was something north of $70.
Are you still interested to hedge at some point in the future? And I mean taking into consideration there's been some huge productivity gains and service cost reductions does that change the price at which you'd be interested to hedge? Actually that's also a good question.
What we're projecting – these prices today are unsustainable in the world and I think everybody realizes that.
So we're building toward a short supply situation.
Certainly when you get there you will see a pretty good recovery of prices in the future.
Will we still have the ability to over-supply the market if people aren't disciplined they surely could.
Again I think if it gets up partial recovery to that range above north of $60 we'll be seriously considering hedging.
Thanks Harold.
Thank you.
Next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is John Abbott calling on behalf of Doug Leggate.
Appreciate you taking our questions.
We have a couple.
Appreciate the color on 2017.
But looking to that year how should we think about decline rates across your various plays? And then second could you speak to the variability in the oil and gas cuts in the Meramec? Operations</span></strong> I can speak to that.
This is Gary Gould.
As far as decline rates go for our plays we've got about a 35% PDP decline rate for the company.
And that's relatively consistent through the plays that we are on.
That's for the first year and you asked about the second year also.
For the second year that PDP decline rate goes to about 20%.
And then you asked about the – I think you asked about the gas percentages for the Meramec play over time.
If you look at our initial rates you can see that right now on a Boe basis we're producing at about 75% oil.
Overall our EUR looks like about 60% EUR.
It's just natural that has reservoirs decline and pressure they go below the ballpoint they do become a little more gassy but not too much as you can see from that 75% to 60% change.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Neal Dingmann from SunTrust.
Your question please.
Inc.</span></strong> Morning guys.
Just a quick question with your M&amp;A.
How do you think about just high-grading assets? You'll have one of the obviously larger asset positions now in the Bakken now but in the MidCon.
When you're looking at M&amp;A are you always thinking about high grading or are you just tacking on to the core positions or how do you all think about that? We've always looked for strategic positions within the plays that we're in we still do that.
And so not necessarily high grading but bolt-ons at work within the plays that we're in.
So we're always looking and hope to make some more of those.
Inc.</span></strong> Harold what are you seeing these days on M&amp;A? Obviously the tremendous – it's kind of a double-edged sword on the tremendous results you're seeing in the STACK and some of your SCOOP.
But how are you seeing prices these days in those parts of the MidCon versus maybe just latter part of last year? Well there is opportunities out there and we have a team that's looking and working.
And we've been effective in taking positions.
So not – I don't know if it's – you wouldn't call it hot but maybe steady be the word.
Inc.</span></strong> Makes sense.
And then just last one if I could.
Again for any of you guys maybe even John.
When you guys look at the latter part of this year and I agree with you Harold that win prices do start to rebound how do you think of your options as far as completing the DUCs versus new drills versus some financial options such as if you're bonds stay around these levels perhaps even repurchases in bonds? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I think we'll have a preeminent position in the industry in terms of being able to balance those.
One our bonds are – have traded out much further than they should.
You've seen them strengthening over the last few weeks regardless of rating agencies.
I think that was built into it.
So those will come in significantly particularly as you see a price recovery as we move into a recovery cycle.
The DUCs we can obviously complete and bring that production on sooner start putting off cash flow that then can go into drilling.
So as you – if you're taking a ladder and stepping up it in terms of price the first things you'll do is start to work off the DUCs start generating that higher level of production and cash flow and then improving your debt metrics with that and then you'll – adding rigs and those – incremental drilling will come after that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great answer.
Go ahead Harold sorry.
Yeah.
We look at the DUCs as cash in bank.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> They're really a savings account.
I mean we're storing all in a way that we can bring to market when we see the correct dynamics.
Inc.</span></strong> Sort of makes sense these prices.
Thanks guys.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Your question please.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
You've highlighted a couple of options for 2017 where you stay within cash flow depending on the oil price that makes sense why the staying within cash flow is the mantra today.
Do you see staying within cash flow as a secular shift for Continental and do you see any constraints to the pace of growth at Continental's cost of capital versus say an entity with perhaps the lower cost of capital or greater balance sheet flexibility? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I think when you say secular I think you speak to the industry.
If you're asking if we think the industry is going to be more disciplined and balanced in their approach to recovery the answer would be yes.
Those that are going to last from a long-term perspective will have that balance.
We will have a balance as you've seen from those scenarios that I gave you we can – we have become very capital-efficient and a $200 million or $300 million change can have a dramatic change in how we approach the – our assets.
We don't need to outspend to a great level.
So I expect us to be disciplined prudent and thoughtful.
We're looking not only for price recovery but stability in that price recovery as we go forward also.
And was there another aspect to your question there I'm sorry? Or maybe I'll just follow up on what you said just to be clear.
So regardless of how bullish one may want to get on the oil price we should consistently and not just in this kind of down cycle tougher credit environment assume that Continental stays within cash flow going forward? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I think our expectation would be that we're going to be within or closely approximating cash flow in the near term.
But we can still generate very strong results.
I mean look at the results you're seeing in the current cycle much less as we go forward but I think we'll be able to hold a lot of that.
Yeah.
And our spending levels don't need to be as high to grow here in the next year or two.
When you look at the efficiencies from our – that we've gained over the last year as well as the DUC inventory as you start bringing those in those are the most cost-effective barrels that we can bring on and we obviously have a very deep inventory that we're building out there and that will allow us to grow without – near the capital on – from a historical basis.
That's helpful.
And on actually the point on the DUC so really it's a question on the Bakken versus STACK here as we just look on your slide seven and the rate of returns that you would highlight in both plays.
Beyond the DUC inventory which as you say is cash in the bank looking at STACK versus Bakken do you think it makes increasingly less sense to focus on the Bakken as even in the recovery scenario just because the rates of returns on STACK are more significant or do you still see diversity as a value for the company? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I think diversity is certainly important and let's be clear on the Bakken.
The core of the Bakken where Continental has well in excess of 10 years of drilling competes with any asset play in North America.
I mean it is a new shale it's not an old shale it's a very powerful and dramatic asset that we have there.
So it will compete head up with anything.
That balance and that geography that we have to spread our assets gives us a lot of optionality in terms of vendor contracts or negotiations or scale and size.
Continental is – if you look to the slide above – slide six you'll see that our core asset positions are in the top end of the industry spectrum and having that diversity is something that I think is very unique in the industry.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond from Simmons &amp; Company.
Your question please.
Yes.
Thanks for taking my questions.
My first question pertains to the Bakken.
Just curious what we should be modeling for exit-to-exit oil production declines in the Bakken.
Yes exit-to-exit in the Bakken we're going to be a little bit less than that 35% PDP.
As we've talked about we're going to be building DUCs from 135 at the beginning of the year to 195 at the end of the year.
We expect – for the wells that we drilled this year we're expecting to put on just 10% as that DUC inventory grows.
And so it's just a little bit shallower overall compared to our PDP decline of 35% couple of percent flatter than that.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up.
John I enjoyed your prepared remarks it was really helpful.
And I guess bigger picture I'd like to get your thoughts on one of the leverage metrics which is debt-to-EBITDA which right now is a bit elevated and I know that that's not a covenant for you debt-to-total cap is.
So I guess my question is is that not a metric that you're focused on because you're focused on the debt-to-total cap? But what are some steps you can do to kind of bring that down? And then if you stay in this debt-to-total cap covenant say for the next year or so do you start to get a little close on that covenant next year? And if the strip comes to fruition and what proactive steps levers can you pull to help alleviate that because you've got fantastic assets to work with? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Okay.
We always monitor that and a variety of other debt metrics if you will.
If you look to year-end it was at I think 3.5 times or a little bit above that 3.6 times so obviously it's come up.
If you take it and run it out through the year I mean you can run the metrics at whatever price as you want and you push up to four five times – around five times so it's higher than we like.
From a historical perspective we've typically stayed around two times.
We prefer to be in that range so let's talk about what it takes to get back to that.
In the case of Continental it doesn't take $70 $80 $90 $100 oil.
If you simply have a $60 or approaching a $60 pricing environment we come down to that roughly two times 2.25 times pretty dramatically.
If you go up just $10 into the mid-$40s which frankly is just using current prices as you've said there's obviously a very steep contango in the price market today so just realizing that strip you see it starting to improve on its own.
Beyond that if we stayed in line with the prompt market which is not what we expect or believe and not what the strip is indicating but if you stay flat in the prompt market forever we've obviously got tremendous assets and be it joint ventures or monetization of non-strategic assets we've got a great deal of flexibility where we could realize cash.
What we're not going to do is do something in the short term that is negative in the long term.
That's why we were not accessing capital markets or those types of things because frankly we don't need to.
We've got a lot of liquidity and a lot of flexibility in that.
Let me give you another little optic and maybe I should have put it in the script but we've modeled in in our capital budget the $920 million.
We've only modeled in 5% in cost reductions for the year.
We expect and we're targeting closer to 15% to 20% for the year as we go through the balance of the year I should say.
So there's still a lot of flexibility and optionality in those numbers and what we're doing and we're continuing to high-grade where we're drilling and what our focus is.
So there's a lot of flexibility just in what we've done.
I think it's similar to what you saw in 2015 as an example.
John thank you for that very comprehensive and helpful answer.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Anytime.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Noel Parks from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Your question please.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Noel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Just a couple things.
I was wondering in the SCOOP Woodford do you have a sense of sort of where you might be heading as sort of a max out of the proppant loading there? I was wondering if you can kind of put it in context as you look at that learning curve sort of with where you were in the Bakken a few years ago.
Are you saying now in SCOOP Woodford where you were maybe in say 2013 in the Bakken? I'd say what we're finding in the SCOOP Woodford is that higher proppant works even more than what we've seen in the Bakken.
And so to give you some color on that our standard design used to be around 750 pounds per foot as (50:27) design.
If you look at this first set of 15 wells it's averaging about 1 300 pounds per foot of proppant.
And right now going forward for that total well cost of $9.9 million per well that we're currently at and again we plan to target about $9.6 million per well by the end of the year.
For that particular design we're looking at about 1 600 pounds per foot.
And so what you can see is that we are continuing to move up our proppant loading.
And as we look at results we are very encouraged by that – the proppant loading has more than doubled over the last year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And I guess thinking a little longer term – well not so long term – but the oil and gas mix across the various Oklahoma properties in just the last month or so with gas being so weak I think we lost about say $0.50 an M on the nat gas strip.
What would say like a sustained $3 gas strip do for you if you held oil equal sort of in your planning? Would that affect the mix of what you might be drilling in the SCOOP compared to sort of your current outlook? Well you know Noel we've got quite a lot of options through our plays here in Oklahoma.
You look at STACK right now I mean like I said two-thirds of our activity is going to be in the over-pressured oil window here this year.
And going down to SCOOP bulk of the work is going to be more in the condensate window down there.
But if we chose to and depending on where commodity prices go we could switch to drilling a lot more Springer wells down there.
You know our Springer wells we're looking at 940 MBoe equivalent type wells there and we basically are just – we're not drilling those right now because we'd like to wait until we have a better price environment.
So when you look at us we just have a lot of optionality in our portfolio mix there in Oklahoma that allows us to adjust really to the changes in the commodity price.
And that's been one of our strengths there.
And I mentioned one other thing to you you'd ask kind of what – I think you were asking when Gary was answering there I was thinking this.
As far as the stimulations in SCOOP where are we at as an evolution I think is what you may be asking.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah.
I would say right now we're still testing.
We haven't seen the limit of what these enhanced stimulations can do.
Gary mentioned that we're up to I think 1 800 pounds but we're actually testing some 2 000 pounds and maybe even upwards of 2 500 pounds.
So we haven't hit the point of diminishing returns on the enhanced completions in SCOOP and so we're going to continue to test that this year.
And so bottom line is that I can't tell you what inning we're in but definitely we're only probably middle innings as far as that's concerned.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And just one quick follow-up.
With the well you drilled that was the deepest you drilled in the Meramec yet and the SCOOP – sorry in the STACK.
Did you have any drilling challenges going to that deeper I assume highest pressure part of the play so far? Yes.
This is Pat Bent.
And in the higher pressure portion of the STACK we end up running a 9 5/8 intermediate casing string for oil stability purposes and so that strain is an incremental $500 000 so that was the primary issue and then we were able to do that successfully.
Yeah.
I really don't recall any issues in particular drilling that well compared to any of the other ones.
I mean – so I think that quite frankly we are early innings in that play as far as developing our ideal drilling method.
And so we expect to see the costs that we're seeing right now is – we're looking at our cost up in STACK coming down significantly.
I mean we can see cost there coming down easily 20%-25% just based on efficiencies and knowledge gained.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> And the team is used to drilling big wells and knows how to handle a lot of different scenarios they do a really nice job.
Exploration</span></strong> Yeah.
This is Glen Brown.
I think in those rates the quality of the rock that's in our STACK area is also helping us in our drilling times.
We're drilling these quite a bit faster than we do our SCOOP wells and we're working very closely on targeting and we're seeing some real step changes in terms of how fast we're drilling these wells.
We basically have some of the best thickness of STACK we have some of the best pressure in STACK and we have the best rock in STACK.
And I think that's the reason we're three times as good as the rest of the STACK.
So the drilling just comes along with being in the best rock.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks Noel.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Brody from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your question please.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered.
But just one for you.
In terms of your midstream and your pipeline and sort of all your transport is there an opportunity to extract some value there today? And also are any of your commitments there heading up against any thresholds right now with the oil production this year? We're actually it probably would be if we wanted to tackle that business and we'll just not – that's not our focus and so we're actually making the arrangements out there in the field.
And so I don't believe we're ever going to go there.
We're not looking to enter the business if you're referring to do.
We have assets that we could monetize.
We've probably got $100 million or $200 million in tanks and various other things that we could do.
But they're very strategic to us and benefit the company from an equity ownership precision side and give us a lot of flexibility and growth typefaces also.
So I think we'll probably hold on to those.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> In the places where you have minimum volume equipments are you above those thresholds today? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yeah...
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> (57:14)? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yeah.
Gregg they're not significant.
If you look in our 10-K there's a commitments table in there that will give you right after MD&amp;A gives you the various pipeline commitments.
They're probably what 20% of our total production maybe less than that not significant in that term.
Because of the size and scale that we have in our assets they need us and want our business in many ways so we don't necessarily have to have the – be as – the firm commitment.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> I'm staring right at it right now.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Thank you guys.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> See you Gregg.
Thank you.
And this does conclude the question-and-answer session of today's program.
I'd like to hand the program back to Warren Henry for any further remarks.
I just like to thank everyone for again for joining us this morning I know it's been a very very busy week in last couple of days and I'd like to just say we'll look forward to reporting another strong quarter to you in early May.
Thank you very much.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program you may now disconnect.
Good day.
Welcome to the Second Quarter 2015 Continental Resources Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Catherine and I'll be your operator today.
Please note this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn it over to Mr.
Warren Henry Vice President of Investor Relations &amp; Research.
You may begin sir.
Thank you Catherine.
I'd like to welcome everyone to today's call.
Joining us today with prepared remarks are Harold Hamm Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Jack Stark President and Chief Operating Officer; and John Hart Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Also on the call this morning and available for Q&amp;A will be Jeff Hume Vice Chairman of Strategic Initiatives; Jose Bayardo Senior Vice President of Resource and Business Development; Gary Gould Senior Vice President of Operations; Glen Brown Senior Vice President Exploration; and Steve Owen Senior Vice President of Land.
Today's call will contain forward-looking statements that address projections assumptions and guidance.
Actual results may differ materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for additional information concerning these statements and risks.
In addition Continental does not undertake any obligation to update our forward-looking statements made on this call.
Also on the call we will refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures.
For a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to generally accepted accounting principles please refer to the updated second quarter and first half summary presentation that was posted on our website at www.clr.com yesterday evening.
To begin this morning I'll turn the call over to Jack Stark for his comments on the second quarter and our current outlook.
Jack? Thank you Warren and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you being on the call with us here today.
I am very pleased to report that Continental delivered another quarter of excellent results especially with the backdrop of prevailing low commodity prices.
Our team stayed right on track with our plan to align CapEx with cash flow lowered costs across the board build efficiencies and to maximize the return on every dollar spent.
As a result our production for the quarter hit record levels and our cash costs such as G&amp;A and LOE came in significantly below guidance.
So based on our strong results year-to-date we have increased our production guidance for 2015 and lowered our projected cash costs for the year with no adjustments to CapEx.
In fact our CapEx is running about $85 million below budget at midyear and in our current pace CapEx would run as much as a $150 million below our $2.7 billion budget by year-end.
Bottom line more production at a lower cost.
John will provide more details on our updated guidance here in just a few minutes.
In addition to these outstanding results we are officially adding STACK to Continental's portfolio of world-class assets.
As announced our first STACK well flowed at an impressive rate of 2 076 barrels of oil equivalent per day and it indicates that STACK constitutes a significant new resource play underlying our 136 400 net acres in Central – in the STACK play.
Needless to say we are pleased with the results and I will discuss STACK in more detail in a few minutes.
Speaking for the management team we can't thank our employees enough for embracing the market changes and delivering excellent results in the first half of 2015.
Their dedication and ingenuity has laid the foundation for Continental to operate successfully in today's environment.
So let's look at some of the results for the quarter.
For starters our production averaged a record 226 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the quarter up 10% from Q1 and 35% over Q2 2014 and current production is approximately 230 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day quite impressive considering we've reduced our rig count by 50% from fourth quarter 2014.
Those volume growth was driven primarily by four things: one high grading our Bakken drilling program; two improved Bakken performance from enhanced completions; three continued impressive results from our SCOOP Woodford and Springer completions; and four momentum coming out of 2014.
Looking to the second half of 2015 we expect production will decline slightly in the third quarter and level off in the fourth quarter reflecting a lower level spend that we have planned.
Our year-end 2015 exit rate is projected to be 210 000 barrels to 215 000 barrels of oil per day and there may be some upside to this number as efficiencies continued to build.
We currently have 25 operated rigs running with 10 in the Bakken 10 in SCOOP four in Northwest Cana and one in STACK.
We plan to keep approximately 25 rigs drilling throughout year end but are prepared to reduce the rig count in the Bakken by 20% should today's low prices persist.
On the capital side our drilling and completion costs have decreased approximately 20% at midyear compared to year-end 2014.
Most of the cost reductions are coming from the service sector and are weighted more heavily towards the completion side.
Our goal is to have an additional 5% to perhaps 10% reduction in costs during the second half of the year from a combination of operational efficiencies and further reductions through improved drilling and completion methods.
In terms of operational efficiencies we're seeing improvements in all aspects of our business.
On the drilling side the Bakken team has reduced drilling times from an average of 17.6 days in the first quarter of this year to 16.6 days in the second quarter a 6% reduction quarter-over-quarter and they continued to push the technical limit.
In the first half of 2015 they've drilled 12 wells from spud to TD in less than 14 days with one well reaching TD in only 12.6 days.
Seven of these sub 14-day wells were drilled in the second quarter.
So the key here is that the results are repeatable and represent a step-change that will pay dividends for years to come as we develop our Bakken assets.
In SCOOP it's a little harder to measure the operational efficiency gains as we're still delineating the play at a variety of depths and experimenting with various drilling and completion techniques but we see efficiency building and based on experience we believe gains in the range of 20% to 30% are possible as the play matures over the next several years.
As an example our drilling team drilled this first well using short set intermediate pipe in the Woodford saving approximately $500 000 on a well.
Another Woodford well drilled during the quarter they saved approximately $1 million by eliminating the intermediate string of pipe altogether.
We believe this approach could be applied to approximately 30% of our SCOOP acreage.
Now let's move to production performance.
In the Bakken we are seeing significant uplift in the well performance from high grading to the core and utilizing enhanced slickwater and hybrid completions.
By doing so we are targeting an average of 800 000 barrels of oil equivalent EUR per well this year compared to an average EUR of 550 000 barrels of oil equivalent for 2014 when we're drilling and testing completions of a broad area outside of core.
That is a 45% increase in EUR which along with our completed well cost reductions essentially cuts our 2015 Bakken finding and development costs in half compared to 2014.
Looking at it another way we estimate that for every dollar we spend on our Bakken wells in 2015 we are getting approximately 80% more reserves than we did in 2014 and we estimated that we have approximately 10 years of drilling inventory at 775 000 barrels of oil equivalent based on drilling program averaging 15 rigs.
Our slickwater and hybrid completions continued to deliver initial 90-day production rate uplifts of 50% and 40% respectively compared with offset legacy completions in Williams and McKenzie County.
We are also projecting uplifts of 25% to 45% in our EUR for these enhanced completions.
Our SCOOP production continues to grow and now represents 28% of the company's total production in the second quarter up from 24% of company production in the first quarter of 2015.
Almost a third of SCOOP second quarter production was crude oil.
We continued to de-risk our SCOOP acreage with step-out and pilot drilling tests and results from the drilling Woodford and Springer wells during the quarter were really quite strong.
In the Woodford we completed 15 net 50 gross operated and non-operated wells during the quarter.
The average 24-hour test rate for these wells was 1 539 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
During the quarter we also completed our second pilot density test in the Woodford condensate window called the Honeycutt.
The Honeycutt in which Continental owns 50% working interest is a 10 well dual-zone density pilot located one mile east of the 10 well dual-zone Poteet density pilot announced last quarter.
The Honeycutt density pilot consists of one legacy well and nine new wells.
The nine new wells in the Honeycutt pilot flowed at a combined peak rate of 93 million cubic feet of gas per day and 9 058 barrels of oil per day or 24 603 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On a per well basis the nine Honeycutt wells had an average IP of 2 734 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is remarkably close to the average IP for the Poteet density pilot wells of 2 774 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On the Honeycutt project approximately 37% of the production was crude oil compared with 12% oil cut for the Poteet wells.
This is consistent with expectations as the Honeycutt pilot was located closer to the oil window moving eastward into the play.
Both the Poteet and Honeycutt pilots were configured as dual level tests with five wells in both the upper and lower Woodford.
Approximately one-third of our 460 000 net acres of leasehold at SCOOP is prospective for dual-zone development like this where the Woodford is greater than 225 foot thick.
As an update Poteet continued to perform very well and in line with expectations.
The 10 new pilot – the 10 new Poteet wells have been producing for over 140 days and it produced 14 Bcf and 242 000 barrels of oil and they continue to produce at 80 million cubic feet of gas per day and 828 barrels of oil per day.
In the Springer we completed three net and five gross operated and non-operated wells during the quarter.
The average 24-hour test rate for these wells was 1 385 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The Celesta 1-5-32XH in Stephens County was our second extended lateral well in the Springer and it had a maximum 24-hour test rate of 1 199 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the 7 119 foot lateral.
In our Northwest Cana JDA we had several outstanding completions during the second quarter as well.
The Jones Bay 1-7-6XH and Heckenberg 1-19-30XH had maximum IP rates of 12.5 million cubic feet of gas per day and 15.5 million cubic feet of gas per day respectively.
The Akin 1-27-22XH had an IP of 9.9 million cubic feet of gas per day and a 60-day average of 8.4 million cubic feet of gas per day.
In total during the second quarter we completed 2.3 net five gross operated and non-operated wells in Northwest Cana with an average IP of more than 12 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Now before I conclude my comments let's get back to the new resource play we are officially adding to our portfolio and that's STACK.
As announced the Ludwig 1-22-15XH was completed flowing 2 076 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The well has only been producing for six days now and is still cleaning up but is a very strong well producing at 2 100 pounds flowing casing pressure.
Approximately 76% of the production was 44-degree gravity oil the rest was 1 460 Btu gas.
The well targeted the Meramec and it was completed with 40 stages in a 9 711 foot lateral.
It took 38 days to drill from spud to TD at an estimated cost of about $10.9 million.
Continental controls 136 400 net acres in STACK and approximately 60% of this acreage is already held by production.
The remaining acreage that we already held in inventory and it came to us at no cost.
The Ludwig is located on the east side of our acreage block within the over-pressured window and in fact 95% of our acreage is located within the over-pressured window where we believe well performance will be enhanced.
Underlying our acreage the STACK petroleum system which we currently defined as the base Woodford to top Meramec is approximately 700 feet to 1 200 feet thick and is found at depths of 9 000 feet to 17 000 feet.
And of course it's too early to estimate reserves for the Ludwig but based on industry-wide results we anticipate the economics from STACK will compare favorably with our Bakken and SCOOP assets.
We're very encouraged from the Ludwig results and have already drilled the second well the Marks 1-9-4XH and a third well is drilling.
We are adding a second rig to STACK later this quarter as well and expect to have a total of eight wells to nine wells spud by year-end 2015.
So in summary Continental's performance in the first half of 2015 shows the strength and scalability of our assets the flexibility of our operations and the capital discipline employed.
We look forward to reporting continued progress along the same lines through the remainder of the year.
With that I'll turn it over to John to discuss updated guidance and financial results.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</strong> Thank you Jack.
Good morning everyone.
We're pleased to report our results today.
Revenue for the second quarter was $796 million an increase of 27% over the first quarter.
EBITDAX was $647 million an increase of 47% over the first quarter.
And net income was a positive $403 000.
Adjusted to exclude impairments non-cash gains and losses on derivatives and gains and losses on asset sales net income was $48.5 million or $0.13 per diluted share.
Although the net income isn't large in an absolute sense it is significant in demonstrating we can be profitable in a lower commodity price environment.
Our results were driven by strong production growth as Jack discussed and exceptional operating cost results.
These reflect the lean focused nature of our company combined with the quality of our assets.
We've been able to generate production growth while improving our cash cost and lowering our unit rate.
For instance look at G&amp;A excluding equity compensation.
In 2011 our G&amp;A per Boe was $2.36.
It was $2.06 last year and for the second quarter it was an impressive $1.34 per Boe.
Our 1 180 employees generate outsized results.
Production expense is a similar trend improving from $6.13 per Boe in 2011 to $5.58 in 2014 and $4.39 per Boe in the second quarter of 2015.
As we develop our core areas and gain greater density our efficiencies continue to improve.
Our results reflect long-term sustainable trends that should continue to enhance our results in the future.
Total cash costs including interest was lower at $12.43 per Boe in the second quarter or 9% better than Q1 and 30% better than 2014 as a whole.
These measures not only distinguish Continental within our industry they continue to aid us in terms of our global competitiveness.
As we noted we are forecasting production to level off in the back half of the year with reduced quarterly CapEx.
As Jack mentioned we expect our exit rate to be around 210 000 Boe to 215 000 Boe per day.
Per unit cost may increase a bit from Q2 levels.
However we anticipate they will continue to be exceptional and well inside our prior guidance.
Accordingly we updated our 2015 guidance in a significantly positive manner last night.
The overriding theme of this update is stronger production for fewer capital dollars spend with significantly improving cash cost per Boe.
These operating and financial metrics will continue to be our focus for the remainder of 2015 and prospectively.
Changes in 2015 guidance include: an increase in our expected production to a range of 19% to 23% versus the prior growth rate of 16% to 20% reflecting the strong results our wells are generating; the production expense guidance decreased to $4.75 to $5.25 per Boe in comparison to the prior range of $5.50 to $6; G&amp;A decreased to a range of $1.75 to $2.25 per Boe from the previous range of $2 to $2.50; finally equity compensation improved to the range of $0.7 to $0.8 per Boe down from the prior range of $0.75 to $0.95.
A full look at the 2015 guidance can be found in our investor presentation posted on the website and at the end of yesterday's earnings release.
First quarter oil and gas differentials were within guidance at a negative $8.18 per barrel for oil and $0.33 per Mcf for natural gas.
The strong Q1 to Q2 improvement of 18% in oil differentials reflects a more competitive market environment with the commencement of the Pony Express Pipeline combined with ample railroad takeaway capacity.
Approximately 70% of our Bakken production is now delivered to market via pipeline contrasting with where we were a year ago.
Although differentials can be volatile quarter-to-quarter we expect to see continued multi-year improvement as new pipeline capacity creates more competition for the available supply.
Additionally Harold will discuss our views on lifting the ban on the U.S.
crude oil exports.
I note that we believe doing so would positively benefit WTI relative to Brent.
On the financial front we continue to have ample liquidity and no near-term maturities.
Our capital plans for the second half of 2015 do not entail accessing the capital markets.
At the end of 2Q we had $25 million of cash on hand and we currently have $1.3 billion available capacity under our credit facility.
We remain committed to maintaining our investment grade rating.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $586 million which was $27 million below our internal budget for the quarter resulting in $85 million below budget through the first half of the year.
Though we are not formally revising our 2015 capital budget at the current spending rate we are trending about $150 million below our 2015 CapEx budget of $2.7 billion for the entire year.
Given the current market we would not deploy this incremental capital but instead expect to be under-budget for the full year.
Apart from this we could reduce our capital spend even further during the back half of the year to better align CapEx with cash flow at today's lower commodity prices.
So let's specifically discuss cash flow neutrality and where we stand.
As previously noted at $60 WTI we would be neutral in the back half of 2015.
At $50 WTI we would outspend cash flow by about $150 million to $200 million during the back half of the year.
And this is without the benefit of additional cost reductions.
However as we will discuss we expect continued cost improvement which should benefit these numbers further.
Before the most recent decline in commodity prices we were in essence at neutrality.
As an example for the month of June we were cash flow positive with an average WTI price of $59.83 reflecting how quickly we have been aligning with cash flow.
As another reference point you may note in our 10-Q that our July month end revolver balance was flat with June.
While pleased with our progress to date we're managing the company to achieve our financial and operational objectives in any commodity environment.
We have alternatives to the current budget and we'll further reduce capital spend if necessary to better align with cash flow.
Now let's discuss 2016.
Previously we stated that maintenance capital to hold production flat in 2016 was estimated to be $2 billion to $2.2 billion.
Today based on lower cost and increased efficiencies we now estimated lower maintenance capital range of $1.8 billion to $2 billion to hold us flat at our expected exit rate of approximately 210 000 Boe to 215 000 Boe per day.
We have also noted in the past various growth scenarios.
Today we estimate that for approximately $2.5 billion in 2016 we could grow in the mid to upper single digits from our 2015 exit rate.
This is stronger production and lower CapEx than we announced last quarter when we referenced flat CapEx of $2.7 billion so a nice improvement.
As another reference point 2016 maintenance capital of $1.8 billion to $2 billion would enable us to be cash flow positive at $60 WTI and at $50 would result in an outspend of $300 million to $400 million.
These estimates are based on a 25% cost savings relative to 2014 or the low end of our year-end 2015 target.
So we feel that we may be conservative in these estimates.
Our goal is to significantly reduce these amounts through incremental cost savings and efficiencies or by reducing activity further.
As a reference point every 5% in cost savings will save about $110 million in CapEx.
These estimates are strong indicators of the quality of our assets and Continental's operating excellence.
As indicated in prior calls we plan to announce formal 2016 guidance late this year.
In summary we are committed to a disciplined approach in managing our business and preserving our financial flexibility.
We do not believe the current price environment is sustainable and we will remain patient awaiting better commodity prices before deploying additional capital.
As second quarter 2015 demonstrates our efficiency and cost improvements are allowing us to do more with less capital.
We are creating competitive advantages that will be strong value catalyst for the future.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Harold.
Thank you John.
The quality and competence of Continental people have never been more apparent and strategically impactful than they are today in mid 2015.
The results have been truly exceptional and I'm enormously proud of what we have accomplished this quarter.
We have demonstrated capital discipline while we continue to increase production and reduce costs.
We have literally reset the bar in every key component of our business an increase in our 2015 production decrease in production expense per Boe decrease in G&amp;A per Boe improved equity compensation per Boe least cash flow neutrality for June 2015 we plan to be cash flow neutral in the second half of 2015.
As Jack had described so well we saw tremendous second quarter accomplishments in the STACK SCOOP Northwest Cana and the Bakken results versus capital costs.
Those accomplishments reflect increased communication and team work between Oklahoma City office and the field focus in accountability throughout the organization and fierce determination to get better every day in everything we do here at Continental.
Oil supply and demand will rebalance.
In terms of the supply rebalancing coming out as paradigm shift we're watching several key factors.
The U.S.
oil production growth curve is turning over so the primary source of world supply growth will not be there in the last half of 2015 nor 2016 given all the rigs the industry has laid down.
Secondly we're not seeing enough supply growth worldwide to offset the natural declines in production.
OPEC has announced plan to reduce production beginning in September and we think that maybe the first of many.
And finally we're seeing meaningful world demand growth led by lower oil prices which will speed rebalancing.
This energy paradigm shift will have profound long-term consequence worldwide starting with the U.S.
crude exports ban being lifted so America can finally compete freely in world energy markets and receive the full value for oil and contrast with Brent selling at a 10% premium today and 20% for much of the last four years.
U.S.
oil exports simply make too much sense economically especially as this administration moves to lift restrictions on Iranian oil exports.
I'm personally very committed to this issue having testified numerous times at both Senate and Congressional hearings and having met with hundreds of Congressmen representatives and staff members over the past year in my role as Chairman of the Domestic Energy Producers Alliance.
This educational process has been arduous but necessary to lift this 40-year-old Nixon-era ban.
World events including OPEC factions and recently proposed Iranian nuclear agreement have written an ideal script.
Now momentum is at an all-time high and I believe we are on track to see the ban lifted early this fall.
Another historic consequence is the recognition that the U.S.
energy renaissance is a multi-decade reality in which Continental will be a large participant going forward.
America is once again an energy superpower no longer depending on unstable regimes overseas for our primary energy supplies.
Just like we did in the 1940s 1950s and 1960s we have the resource and technology to be the world leader in energy production.
Along with the economics and jobs this has huge implication geopolitically especially in terms of supporting our allies in Europe and other parts of world.
Finally and personally this brings me to my final point regarding paradigm shift.
I'm enormously proud of the role played by Continental Resources later in the U.S.
energy renaissance and have the dominant leasehold we've acquired in heart of three of the most prolific plays in America the STACK and the SCOOP and the Bakken.
We've assembled an unmatched asset portfolio a powerful growth platform for decades to come for this company.
The key point today is Continental is better positioned than ever for future growth and to play a leading role in the next 20 years of the U.S.
energy development.
We have the assets balance sheet people ability to execute and discipline to grow and prosper in any reasonable price environment.
As these historic events continue to play out we'll make sure the company remains sound financially to remain viable and ready for increased growth at the proper time.
And one final point of interest at Continental we have always been exploration is first.
Accompanying that fact we've taken advantage of low price environments like this to find our best resource play starting with Cedar Hills in the mid 1990s the Bakken in 2002 and in SCOOP in 2008 2009.
Now we added STACK to that list a play that we believe will compete with any of them with the added luxury that is 60% HBP for Continental.
This acreage position is also ideally located in the pressure cell of this petroleum system within our best plays and adverse markets then as the market turn around we're ready to fully develop them with our own gas prices.
That's the history of Continental.
We are positioned well to do it again.
Thank you with that.
I would like to turn the call over to our operator for the Q&amp;A part of the call.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody or good afternoon I guess it is now.
But I wonder if I could hit two separate issues fellas please.
The first one is financial and the second one is on obviously the terrific operating results you announced in several of the plays.
So I guess John dealing first of all with the balance sheet issues.
I wonder if you could just address at least what we hear is one of the primary reasons for Continental's share price weakness recently which is the perception that there will be a need for equity at some point to achieve your financial objectives and a maintenance capital scenario could you address that? And in doing so maybe talk about what – some of the options you are – you see as a way as if you needed to basically maintain those investment grade credit metrics? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Okay.
I think that's probably a narrow perception with the depth and quality of the assets the company has.
We have a lot of optionality in how we approach it.
One if you look to metrics debt to EBITDA is obviously price-driven debt to flowing barrel has actually improved and you see some strength in terms of cost in a lot of the other measures so you're seeing improvement there and greater efficiencies.
As you look beyond that with those optionalities we've looked – if you look to the past of what we've done we have utilized a variety of capital markets at different times all forms of those.
We've also used a strategic asset monetizations and joint ventures to fund our operations and with the portfolio that we have we have some tremendously valuable pieces that could provide cash in those type environments without going to the markets.
Additionally in terms of our metrics and the point that it is price driven if you look at it from the terms of a $60 price environment or even subsequently a $70 price environment you see a rapid and dramatic transformation of those metrics.
So yes at $45 it looks a little higher but as you look back just four weeks ago when we were at $60 you were seeing a lot more strength in that.
I would also say I think our metrics are probably better than what many projected and internally as we look out we see them better than what a lot of people are projecting.
So we've got a lot of optionality.
We will preserve the financial strength.
But the first thing we do is we adjust our level of spend which we've done.
We bring down the level of activity.
We get in line with cash flow prices continue to dip and we will continue to work in that vein and we stopped utilizing debt and we're well-positioned for the future with ample liquidity.
And then as it recovers we look to those other options to accelerate that development and growth in those recovered markets.
I think Doug it's a good question.
I think a lot of people didn't expect us to get to cash flow neutrality as quickly as we did.
So they had a little different deal.
And so many companies went out there and diluted their shareholders by issuing equity early in this downturn and maybe that's why they expect us to but certainly we have optionality that didn't require to do so.
I appreciate the answers fellas.
And Harold thank you for weighing in there.
My follow up is probably for Jack.
And it's really a question about variability and I'm sure I'm going to leave plenty time so I'll let people to get on here.
But if you look at Poteet versus Honeycutt if you look at the variability in the Springer what's the reason you think for two areas very close together the – I guess the well the pilot test but with very different oil cuts in the Poteet case and in the case of Springer some fairly large variability in the IP rates.
And I'll leave you there for somebody else to jump on about the STACK.
Thanks.
Hi Doug.
Yeah this is Jack.
As far as the higher oil cut in the Honeycutt well I mean that was exactly what we are expecting.
This is a transitional play where you transitioned from oil to gas over a distance and this is – these wells are really – you can see the Honeycutt is entering that transition to a more oily area.
And so it's mile east of the Poteet and so – and you do start seeing a transition in that short of a distance.
On the Springer Jack? And as far as the Springer – variability in the Springer really Springer results to me I don't see a lot of variability in it.
We're really pleased with the outcomes.
I mean these two wells we announced are above the type curve in their early time performance and what I'm saying if anything of variability would just be related to reservoir thickness and that's about it.
Terrific.
I'll let someone else jump on.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
Just wanted to ask a question here around the production growth cadence in the second half of the year you guys talked that your third quarter production will be down a little bit and I think you guys said in your prepared comments that your fourth quarter would start to recover to flat a little bit.
I was just trying to reconcile that with the comment that current production was 230 000 barrels a day which is up a little bit from the second quarter average.
I guess are you starting to see declines kick in later in August and September just wanted to make sure I understood that.
Operations</span></strong> Yeah this is Gary Gould.
I'll comment on that.
As we rolled into the beginning of this year we had a lot of inventory and we had a lot more rigs running.
And so in the first half of the year we've completed a lot more wells on what we see forecast for the second half of the year.
And so that's really the driver.
When we look at actual production performance per well we're seeing very good results whether it be from the north or from the south.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And I guess in terms of looking at where we're going to see the production start to decline here is that going to be more so from the Bakken versus the SCOOP? I mean your rate of growth in SCOOP has been a fair bit higher over the last handful of quarters versus the Bakken.
Just trying to get a sense of how those two individual assets may change here later in the year.
Operations</span></strong> So overall for the company our production will be declining in the Bakken but it will be moving up in the south.
We've got higher rate of return projects in the south we've got more opportunities HBP acreage in the south.
And so that's why we want to focus more of our growth in the south right now than in the north.
And I think you're going to see that throughout the Bakken play.
I think there's going to be a lot of operators and overall production in the Bakken will be dropping off over time for all operators.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And obviously you guys did a very good job talking about how you're preserving liquidity and spending closer to cash flow here.
I just wanted to get a better sense of what type of oil prices we need to see before you get more aggressive.
I think you're alluding to $60 to $70.
Is that the right range before you start adding rigs? Well I think the market rewarding people for jumping in increasing production rig count today in low commodity prices I just don't see that as something that ought to be happening.
Let the market rebalance supply and demand rebalance and come back in.
These reserves and these resource plays are not going anywhere and we all have a long future and that's the kind of way we look at it here.
So I hope I answered your question.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Hey Brian.
Good morning.
Going back to the Springer program can you just talk a little bit more about your path? You mentioned no drilling plans through year end.
Is that just simply the result of the need to be nimble in the commodity environment? Is it more related to the need to watch the density at wells the well tests? And what would you need to see to allocate more capital to Springer drilling? And where would the next wells be drilled within the play? Okay.
Well really one of the biggest drivers for us now proceeding ahead actually there's a couple things here.
One is we hate to sell this prolific production into this low-price environment number one.
And number two is that we don't need to because we're HBP'ing and actually delaying the Springer through our Woodford drilling.
So we're really in a real great seat here.
We've got optionality.
We don't have to drill to delineate and assess the Springer and we've done our initial couple density tests here and we are monitoring results.
And so as the Woodford drilling is HBP'ing and delineating the extent of the reservoir we're monitoring the densities.
And when the time is right and that would be when prices are more attractive we can come in and start developing this right out of the chute.
And so it's just an ideal setup for developing a reservoir.
If you're able to delineate it before you actually start developing it then you don't really have to spend any really incremental dollars to get that done.
And you asked where would we start drilling; we'd start drilling in the areas that we think we get the best results and start walking it out to the economic limits.
Great thanks.
And then just going back to the commodity environment that we're in and trying to focus actually a little bit on the Bakken and the SCOOP area do you think in both the Bakken and in the SCOOP that there needs to be more consolidation of existing players? Do you think that that's going to happen in the environment that we're in? And how if at all could or should Continental participate in that? Well I think it's likely you'd see some more consolidation if prices remain low.
And Continental we'll always keep our eyes open.
But right now we're focused on things we control and things we can accomplish and we'll let those types of things play out.
Great.
Thank you.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Thanks Brian.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Hi Noel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I realize you're just getting rolling with the STACK play but across your acreage is your working assumption that it will be one of the formations that's prospective or productive across the acreage or is the number somewhat higher than that at this point? Exploration</span></strong> This is Glen Brown.
The STACK play is as defined by Newfield is the top in the Meramec to the Basin.
The Woodford we certainly recognize that there are multiple intervals in that.
We're very early in the play so we're really not out to speculate at this point about which levels might be more important but we're certainly pleased with the results that we have so far with our first Meramec test.
And we will be delineating that as the year goes on and we get more wells.
And Noel I'll add you're right.
We are way early we got our first test in here.
But there have been a lot of other industry wells drilled out here which gives us some pretty good confidence on the repeatability obviously of this play.
But early time results are still coming in from even those players.
And so but we're very optimistic about what we've got here as a widespread resource play.
And what's really great about it is that in a time like this we're able to add a whole new basically asset to our portfolio and we actually got to do it with really no acreage cost at all.
That 136 000 acres combined some old legacy properties as well as other leasehold that we already had in-shop.
So really this play has come to us at a very low cost.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
And about the SCOOP as you've made a lot of progress delineating the play out there do you have any thoughts or any impressions you can give us about the density that you're going to see sort of as the thickness varies throughout the play anything in particular about maybe some of the – as it begins to thin out at the frontier? Yeah that's exactly what we're trying to do with our density test right now we're trying to get a handle on that.
We've done eight-well and 10-well densities dual levels.
And others in the industry also have done a few tests out there as well.
So it's a little early for us to give guidance or give some perspective on that because that's exactly what we're trying to find out.
And but it's a great question.
I don't really have a clear answer for you right now.
I think for sure the industry across the board have been very pleased with the density test that's been performed here so both in the Springer as well as the Woodford.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
That's all for me.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my questions and also thanks for the helpful guidance around what 2016 might have looked like at various prices et cetera.
So one question I had though on that you mentioned that you could hold exit production flat into 2016 at $1.8 billion to $2 billion.
Does that mean that you can hold that same production mix flat or the current production mix that you just had here in Q2 or with more drilling down in this SCOOP/STACK? Are we going to see a bit of a gassier mix as we look out into next year? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> It's relatively flat.
You might have a little bit more gas just because of the SCOOP but remember in the SCOOP we're a two stream reporting companies so you've got a high liquids content down there to the benefits of rates of return.
So we're focused on as Gary said HBP'ing and also focused on rates of return and generating the best cash flow.
John would you run your analysis how much did the mix shift change on a percentage basis? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Not significant.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then my follow up...
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> (46:18) it wasn't that significant percent maybe.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up is for Harold.
Harold you had mentioned and I know you've been working hard on trying to lift the U.S.
export ban and you have a lot of confidence that you can get that done early this fall.
I don't think the market is quite there and believing that.
So I'd like to know specifically mechanically how do you think it does get lifted? Is this the President lifting it or does it go through Congress? Is it some sort of trade-off on the uranium deal whereby Congress provides more support if he agrees to lift the ban? It's a good question Pearce.
Early on we felt like – well President for sure had the authority that he could do it by executive order.
He elected not to do that I want to see legislation.
We have confidence that he will sign a bill.
When he gets to his desk this is something that has universal appeal across the board with every oil and gas industry group organization it's – will bode better for the public and cheaper gas prices in the future and everything else if we can effect Brent market instead of just WTI.
And so it's something that I feel certain about.
It's got good bipartisan support both houses the – Blu is here Blue Hulsey and he and I have been working together on this.
And he may have a comment as well.
But we feel very sure of that we'll see this go forward late September maybe – may get something done actually in September or early October.
So Bill you have anything to add? Harold the only thing I would add is we've seen a movement out of the Senate Committee out of Murkowski's Energy and Natural Resource Committee to bill that language is in a bill that they approved right before recess we're getting movement on the language.
So we feel very confident we'll see that on the Senate floor soon in some form or fashion and we're in a very – we're very positive with the comments that the speakers made just recently coming out for the lifting the ban.
So we're getting a lot of support from each houses and actually getting some votes.
So we feel very confident with the timeline.
Thank you very much.
Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Subash Chandra from Guggenheim.
Your line is open.
Yeah thanks.
So first question is the Anadarko Basin.
I guess historically known is it's fairly clay rich and more than perhaps some of the other shale op (49:17) plays.
And A if that's the case how it might vary between Meramec Springer SCOOP and your land position and/or more importantly do you see it having an impact at all on production rates? And then I have a follow up.
Okay.
Subash are you asking are these reservoirs – shale content of these reservoirs are affecting their performance? Yeah yeah.
It's a clay content of the reservoirs affecting their performance.
We don't see that – we don't have that problem at all in the Woodford.
I mean it is a shale reservoir but we don't have problems with it and you might be referring to clay swelling or something like that.
And there's no issue there and we've got our first test up at STACK and right now it is performing really better than expectations.
Okay.
And so I really – I don't see it as far as the Springer is concerned.
Again what we're targeting are our source beds (50:18) they're organic rich we've got organic porosity in these rocks and we really avoid those more shale rich areas and go into those areas that are better targets.
Right.
And so I don't think I can answer the question any better.
Harold do you have something? Well yes.
Obviously we're into shale regimes there in all those but I think the way that – with the PUDs that we're using and everything else we're not having problem with swelling clays.
Okay.
Got you.
Good answer.
Thanks.
And my follow up Harold for you is that so if let's say back to the oil export question if it was approved today do you think you would see an immediate economic uplift in your oil sales? Or do you think it just provides some optionality that we don't currently have so how do you see it in dollars and cents? Well it's obvious that you're going to see that uplift.
You're going to see those prices to be the same.
That difference will only occur when we start trying to sell light sweet oil into market that had refineries that wouldn't handle it.
Basically all of our U.S.
refineries have been converted two-thirds of them to heavy sour crude that this product didn't work well in.
So – and we couldn't sell to all those sweet refineries that's available to us outside the U.S.
and South Korea for instance and Europe and South America that need this product need this oil.
So these refineries have a captive market today and they don't have to pay up and they've taken $125 billion off the industry over just the past four years.
So as you can tell I feel fairly strong about it.
Okay right.
So just the final one on that so the sales price would far more than offset the cost of transport to get to those Asian markets et cetera? Absolutely.
Most of us are going to the Gulf and this is something can be turned on immediately.
We exported here in this country 1975 everything is there the ships the ship channel pipelines that can be turned on immediately it's not like export natural gas that takes a while.
This would be a tremendous industry going forward once that's accomplished.
And I got my fingers crossed for all of us.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Corales with Howard Weil.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Just another one on the maintenance capital is that $1.8 billion to $2 billion is that based on your second half 2015 rig count or how is that different I guess? Operations</span></strong> Second half rig count held flat.
Okay.
And then...
Operations</span></strong> (53:38) greater efficiencies we're seeing.
Okay.
And then as we go out and as prices increase would it just be equal adding rigs or more rigs would be allocated to the Mid-Con? Well we would probably tend to want to increase our rig count in the Mid-Con just because of the HBP'ing acreage that'd probably be a driver.
Okay.
And you made a comment in the release about at least 10 years of Bakken inventory close to 800 000 barrels a day.
Was that just your core area is that what you know of today or can you maybe expand on that a little bit? Yeah.
Well it is.
It represents – what we're trying to do I guess I should say is we're trying to give a perspective of the depth of the inventory and we've got 10 years of 775 and it is – basically most of it's focused in the what we call the core area.
But within that core area because this is an average or some that are higher than that some that are lower than that as far as an EUR is concerned.
But we don't concentrate all our rigs in one area and so we have our rigs in different areas for operational efficiencies.
And so the blended average just so you guys can model it better we give you this blended average so you can see that we're going to sustain in that kind of EUR average over 10-year period.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth with BMO.
You line is open.
Yeah.
Thanks.
Just want to ask a macro question Continental has more knowledge on the Bakken than anyone.
Based on all the efficiencies and shorter cycle times the industry has achieved in the last year in high grading into core what's your estimate of rig count that the industry needs to run to hold the current Bakken production flat versus where we're at today? Just trying to get a sense of how much we're undercapitalized in that play? Well I don't have that estimate but I do believe the NDIC has come out with an estimate that – and I want to say a few months ago it was 115 rigs I believe.
They thought they needed and I think that number has come down due to the efficiencies but that's the number that I recall.
Okay great.
And then when you referenced the 136 000 prospective acres for the STACK does that include the position in both Dewey and Custer counties and I know there hasn't been much industry activity that far west but do you think that the play boundaries could extend across your acreage position there? Operations</span></strong> Yes it does go from Blaine out into Dewey County and I do think it laps into Custer a bit there as well.
Okay great.
And then last question given where NGL prices are just the dry gas window of the SCOOP come any more attractive on a relative basis similar to what we've seen in the Utica where operators have shifted activity from the liquids rich areas and I did see that from the map it looks like Continental actually did drill a couple of wells there in Western Grady County in the first half of 2015? I guess discounting liquids obviously the gas window gets to be more competitive with what's going on in the condensate window but no I just don't see that.
And I think that the condensate windows got superior economics to us at this time.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Grigel with Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
A couple of clarification points on the CapEx discussion for 2016.
The $2.5 billion for 2016 that would have growth in the mid to high-single digits is that on an exit rate basis to exit rate basis or would that be year-over-year? How should we be thinking about that? And then also on the $1.8 billion to $2 billion of CapEx still flat is that just D&amp;C? Or is there other exploration in infrastructure CapEx that would be added to that? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Both of those indicators are on exit rate.
Both of them include other – all components of CapEx land acquisition facilities whatnot that they're all in.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> You're welcome.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just a higher level strategy question how do you balance the desire that Harold stated to find the strong plays during the downturn with the comments made at the start of the Q&amp;A session on the ability to sell assets to maintain those financial objectives going forward how do you balance those out? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I think you...
Go ahead John.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> When you're looking at your total portfolio we are always looking for new opportunities we're always looking to expand our asset base and in times like this we find opportunities where it's not as competitive.
Took our first lease in SCOOP back in 2008 for relatively low prices.
So you find some attractive opportunities with good economics.
And we've got a proven team of finding and proven team with explorationists finding those opportunities.
And on the other side we've got a lot of very valuable assets that at times we've monetized different assets to fund the development and expansion of higher growth assets that we have in the portfolio.
So within our existing portfolio we have the ability if we choose to either be a JV or other structures to monetize a portion of our interest but accelerate the growth of a undeveloped asset or we have PDP assets that have a lot of value on them that could fit into a number of corporate structures and could derive a lot of proceeds for us.
So it's a balance of we're always looking to expand but we assess the portfolio continually.
Yeah I was going to say I think our history shows we've been able to manage that and balance it.
And my motto has always been I have more assets than I've got cash to develop.
And that gives you lots of optionality.
And historically we've operated very lean and mean and not gotten out where we're having to monetize assets.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys.
Thanks for the time.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Portillo with TPH.
Your line is open.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Hi Matt.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just one quick follow up on the hydrocarbon mix question.
As we think about the back half of the year Q2 I think you were around 66% oil.
Could you give us potentially a little bit of color on how we should think about that trending into Q3 and Q4 just given the commentary around the Bakken and SCOOP kind of growth in decline (1:00:57)? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> You may see it a percent or two of gas here.
These two big pads we've brought on to Honeycutt and Poteet have been tremendous in terms of volumes they continue to hold in there well.
So you're getting more and that's giving you a little bit gassier mix.
And as we've said we're also keeping a little more CapEx in there relative to the Bakken just because the rates of return now and HBP'ing.
I want point out though just to make clear that is not necessarily a long-term trend that you're going to see.
As oil prices recover you will see a move back into the Bakken.
And we've got a very significant inventory there and we are still committed to being an oil company.
And we put Springer basically on hold right now.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Yeah.
We'll monitor the density development and allow it to be delineated before we start moving ahead to develop it.
So that's still to be put in the mix down in SCOOP in...
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Good optionality.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just as a follow-up question the initial well in the STACK looks extremely encouraging.
I was curious based on your results plus the industry data that you have how much of that 136 000 acres you think you've delineated so far? And then I guess secondarily alongside that how much of the acreage you potentially think is within the liquids-rich window of the play? Exploration</span></strong> Glen Brown here.
I'll answer that.
The play has started out developing from east to west through Kingfisher County.
And we've just now entered with our well and a few recent wells entered the pressure window.
And we obviously are in the true oil window a portion of our acreage.
We believe that covers 25% of our acreage position.
We think that 50% of additional acreage position is covered by liquid rich with the remaining 25% being in dry gas.
And we will move this development systematically towards the west but I would point out that way over in Dewey County there are some substantial wells already in the far northwest part of our play.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Exploration</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Harry Mateer with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
John you mentioned earlier that your budget doesn't anticipate any capital markets activity in the second half and you fleshed out the thought process on equity issuance a bit further.
But I'm just wondering given that you do have a revolver balance and you have some higher coupon debts callable this fall where does debt issuance fit in if at all? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I think those bonds that you're referring to the $200 million of 7.375% bonds I assume.
And I'd say that's a math exercise.
They're callable at some point in October.
When we get to that point then we'll look to see where they're at.
And if we've got enough capacity that we could do that and then certainly put those on the revolver or turn them out in the market in a variety of fashions if we chose to.
We haven't made that decision yet but it's certainly something that we see out there in the quarter that we'll be deciding on.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the revolver balance itself as it stands today how long are you comfortable running with a balance of that size? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> If you go back six months seven months we had a revolver commitment of $1.5 billion or $1.75 billion and raised that to $2.5 billion.
And right now we've got $1.3 billion of capacity.
We're leveling off on our level of spend.
We're focused on trying even at lower prices to get to cash flow neutrality for the back half of the year.
We were there in June and I think we were there in July also or we were positive in June.
So we're going to focus on that for the back half.
And with that I've got ample liquidity to cover that.
And as we see the markets improve and prices come up obviously those metrics are going to improve dramatically.
But the mode we're in now is we don't want to take on additional debt.
We want to preserve that significant liquidity that we have.
Did I answer you? Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much John.
Thank you.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy.
Your line is open.
Yes I just wanted one clarification on the 2016.
Just because the gas mix grew so much and oil grew some from 1Q to 2Q but gas grew a lot faster.
When you're talking about the gas mix and oil mix being about flat into 2016 that was based on where the mix currently is or where the mix started this year? So would you expect a 70%-ish mix or a 65%-ish mix? Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> I'd expect just for 2016 it depends.
Like I said if oil prices come back you're going to see capital going back into the Bakken.
And when you see that the oil percentage is going to go up also is when oil prices come back we're going to start drilling the Springer.
What we're trying to do right now is hold our old assets for the future and focus on HBP'ing and delineating down here.
We get a little better rate of return with that.
If you stay in this price environment with that maintenance capital you're probably going to see a gas mix in the mid 60% range.
Okay.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Plus or minus.
65% 66% somewhere in there maybe 64%.
I appreciate that.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> And part of it is just the huge volumetric effect that we've got from the Honeycutt and the Poteet pads and then bringing Northwest Cana on at 80% type rates of return because of the carry but we started drilling in there and that was incremental.
Okay.
Thanks for the clarification.
I appreciate it.
Treasurer &amp; SVP</span></strong> Absolutely.
Thank you.
And I'm showing no further questions at this time I would like to turn the call back to Harold for any closing remarks.
Thanks everybody for joining us on the call this morning.
We are in some turbulent times in this industry.
We expect those to start making a change for the better in a very short order and we will be back to you next quarter.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.