Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call [Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
I would now like to turn today's conference over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Ashley.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; our Chief Financial Officer Beth Acton; our Chief Credit Officer John Killian; Lars Anderson Vice Chairman of Business Bank; and Dale Greene Executive Vice President of the Business Bank.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website Comerica.com.
As we review our first quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of the presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in this release issued today as well as Slide 2 of the presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures.
And in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph.
Good morning.
Turning to Slide 3 today we reported first quarter net income of $103 million or $0.57 per share an increase of 8% over the fourth quarter of 2010 primarily driven by reduced credit costs and good control of expenses.
First quarter revenue was down 3% from the fourth quarter primarily driven by lower total average loans which decreased $448 million or 1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Among the many encouraging and positive signs we saw in the first quarter were loan growth in our Global Corporate Banking Energy and Middle Market lines of business and an acceleration of loan growth in Texas.
These were more than offset by our planned and continued reductions in Commercial Real Estate and by a decrease in Mortgage Banker Finance.
In Texas average loans increased $389 million or 6% with increases in all major business lines other than the expected reductions in Commercial Real Estate.
Average core deposits were up $290 million or about 1% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
With respect to credit quality the first quarter results displayed a continuation of the steady improvement we have seen in our credit metrics the last 6 quarters.
First quarter net credit related charge-offs decreased $12 million with a significant decline in Commercial Real Estate partially offset by an increase in Middle Market net charge-offs.
The increase in Middle Market net charge-offs was primarily the result of several previously identified problem loans that are working their way through the collection process.
As a result of the broad-based improvement we have seen in credit quality the provision for loan losses decreased $8 million.
Our credit culture has served us well.
It is one of our key strengths and has resulted in some of the best credit metrics among our peers.
We continue to manage our expenses effectively as noninterest expenses were down 5% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
Our capital position remained strong.
Our Tier 1 capital ratio is estimated to be 10.37% at March 31.
In addition the quality of our capital remains solid as evidenced by a tangible common equity ratio of 10.43%.
Assuming a continuation of the modest growth in the economy we would expect to be an active re-purchaser of shares for the balance of 2011.
Turning to our Sterling acquisition on Slide 4 we are excited about our pending acquisition of Sterling Bancshares.
Sterling has a very appealing branch network located in one of the fastest-growing markets in the U.S.
The acquisition almost doubles our presence in Houston provides an entry into the San Antonio market and complements our banking center network in Dallas Fort Worth.
Also the composition of Sterling's deposits is very attractive with a relatively large component of non-interest-bearing deposits.
We are pleased with the timing of this acquisition as we are gaining momentum in our Texas market.
We believe Sterling gives us the ability to leverage additional marketing capacity to offer a wide array of products through a larger distribution network particularly to middle market and small-business companies.
We do not see any significant changes to the estimated synergies merger-related charges and loan marks we provided in January when we announced the acquisition.
Sterling also reported first quarter 2011 earnings today and they were consistent with our expectations.
We expect a smooth integration given the size of the transaction and our in-depth knowledge of the Texas market.
We continued to be on track to close the acquisition in the second quarter subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory and Sterling shareholder approvals.
Preparations for the integration of Sterling are moving forward as planned.
We expect to complete the systems conversions in the fourth quarter and anticipate a smooth and seamless transition.
The more work we do and the better we get to know Sterling the more confident we are in the fit of our two organizations.
Turning to the economy the tragic earthquake and tsunami in Japan the continued unrest in the Middle East and increasing food and energy prices here in the U.S.
appear to be dampening confidence in spending somewhat while fueling inflation fears.
Even with these headwinds the national economy continues to move forward perhaps at a slower pace given the challenges I just noted.
Throughout our geographic footprint customers and prospects remain optimistic in this uncertain environment.
This can be seen in our loan pipeline which is strong.
Reflecting on what we are seeing across our geographies our Chief Economist Dana Johnson believes that the Texas economy should outperform the national economy in 2011 just as it did in 2010.
Texas has a growing population and a pro-business climate in the state attracts companies of all sizes.
We believe we are ideally positioned to capitalize on the growth opportunities here underscored in the first quarter by loan growth in Texas in all major lines of business except Commercial Real Estate.
Loan commitments are also up in the state and we see good deposit growth and excellent credit quality.
In California our Chief Economist expects the state economy to make modest gains in 2011 calling it a hesitant recovery.
Still we are seeing some good opportunities in the state particularly in Middle Market and Global Corporate Banking.
Loan commitments are also up in California.
Michigan is a state on the road to a comeback with its economy improving at a solid pace.
Unemployment in Michigan is down 3.5 points since year-end 2010.
The auto and auto parts sector has played a key role in the state's recent economic growth with strong auto sales leading the way.
Our National Dealer Services business is up in the state and Middle Market had the best first quarter for new business in 5 years.
Looking ahead we expect to see improvement in the earnings power of our bank this year compared to last year based on the expectation of moderate economic improvement.
We have improved our outlook for net interest income in 2011 while reaffirming the other components of our outlook that were provided in January.
Finally we intend to continue our share repurchase program and maintain our strong capital which will support our growth as the economy improves.
We believe we are in the right markets with the right people and products to build upon our momentum going forward.
And now I'll turn the call over to Beth and John who will discuss our first quarter results in more detail.
Thank Ralph.
Turning to Slide 5 which provides highlights of the financial results for the first quarter compared to the fourth quarter.
Net income increased 8% from the fourth quarter.
Improving credit quality and careful expense management offset muted loan demand in a slowly growing economy.
Average loans decreased 1% as a result of the continuing runoff of Commercial Real Estate as expected as well as the 49% decline in Mortgage Banker Finance.
This was partially offset by loan growth in several business lines and an acceleration of loan growth in Texas.
Deposit growth continued in the first quarter with average core deposit levels increasing $290 million from the fourth quarter.
The net interest margin decreased 4 basis points in the first quarter to 3.25% primarily a result of higher excess liquidity and maturities of interest rate swaps.
Expenses were well controlled decreasing 5% over the fourth quarter.
Broad-based improvement in credit quality continued.
Net credit-related charge-offs decreased by $12 million from the fourth quarter to $101 million.
Inflow to non-performing loans total non-performing loans and watch list loans all declined.
These continued positive trends led to an $8 million decline in a provision for loan losses to $49 million.
Our capital position remain strong as evidenced by our Tier 1 common capital ratio of 10.37%.
Turning to Slide 6 average loan outstandings increased in the first quarter in Global Corporate Banking Energy Middle Market as well as National Dealer Services and Technology and Life Sciences.
Lower average outstandings in the first quarter were primarily a result of a large decrease in Mortgage Banker Finance as high consumer refinance volumes in the fourth quarter declined.
Commercial Real Estate also decreased and is expected to continue to decline for the foreseeable future as there have been few new origination opportunities.
In total average loans of $39.6 billion declined $448 million or 1% in the first quarter.
Loan growth in Texas accelerated in the first quarter with average loans increasing $389 million or 6% after a $78 million increase in the fourth quarter.
This growth was noted in all major lines of business with the exception of Commercial Real Estate.
Line utilization for the portfolio as a whole was down about 1 percentage point to 44% as the increase in commitments was greater than the change in outstandings.
Commitments increased in Texas and the Western market.
Our loan pipelines remain strong and grew in the first quarter across most lines of business.
The chart on the slide shows that Comerica's commercial and industrial loans declined at a slower pace for several quarters and now in the first quarter C&amp;I loans are growing at a faster pace than the average bank as indicated by the Federal Reserves' weekly H.8 data.
As shown on Slide 7 core deposit growth was strong in the first quarter.
Average core deposits increased $290 million as money market and NOW deposits increased $495 million.
This was partially offset by a decline in noninterest-bearing deposits of $148 million and $93 million decline in customer CDs.
Increased average deposits were noted in the Midwest and Texas markets which were partially offset by a decrease in the Western market.
By line of business deposit growth was led by Global Corporate Banking Technology and Life Sciences and Personal Banking.
As outlined on Slide 8 the net interest margin of the 3.25% decreased 4 basis points compared to the fourth quarter.
An increase in excess liquidity was a key reason for the decrease in the margin.
Excess liquidity was represented by an average of $2.3 billion deposited with the Federal Reserve in the first quarter.
This was a $500 million increase from the fourth quarter.
The increase was due to strong deposit growth which was more than we have anticipated.
Loan yields were mostly lower partially reflecting lower contribution from maturing interest rate swaps.
We have not seen any material loans for compression only selectively for larger federated companies.
Our balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
We believe that a 200 basis point increase in interest rates over a 12-month period equivalent to a 100 basis point increase on average would result in about $100 million increase in annual net interest income.
Turning to Slide 9 noninterest expenses declined 5% or $22 million from the fourth quarter.
The decline was primarily due to a $17 million decrease in salaries expense and a $5 million onetime charge recognized in the fourth quarter related to the redemption of our Trust Preferred Securities.
These decreases were partially offset by a $7 million increase in employee benefit expense which were primarily pension.
Lower salaries expense was a result of an $8 million decline in business unit and executive incentive a $6 million decrease on severance expense and 2 less days in the first quarter which contributed $3 million to the decrease.
This was partially offset by an increase in share base compensation expense of $5 million related to annual share base grants for retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter.
Our largest expense item is salaries and therefore we carefully manage the size of our workforce.
We have consistently reduced our workforce over the past several years.
Our workforce decreased by approximately 3% from year-ago levels.
We are operating with 17% fewer people today than we were in 2007 when the recession began.
Now John Killian our Chief Credit Officer will discuss credit quality starting on Slide 10.
Good morning.
In the first quarter we saw continued broad-based improvement in credit quality.
The first quarter marked the seventh consecutive quarter of decline in net charge-offs.
Net credit-related charge-offs decreased $12 million to $101 million.
Non-performing assets declined by $131 million.
Foreclosed property declined $38 million.
Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing increased $10 million to $72 million but remained at low levels.
And the watch list which is the best early indicator we have for future credit quality declined $376 million.
The watch list is primarily comprised of special mention substandard and nonaccrual loans.
2/3 of the decline was in the special mention category reflecting the positive migration patterns we have been seeing across the portfolio.
The watch list has declined $3.1 billion since the peak in the third quarter of 2009.
The improvement in all of these metrics led to a decrease in the provision for loan losses to $49 million.
The provision for loan losses decreased $8 million primarily due to reductions in Commercial Real Estate Global Corporate Banking Private Banking and Specialty Businesses partially offset by an increase in Middle Market.
As one consequence of the tragic events in Japan we have seen an impact on vehicle production.
We believe the impact on our portfolio will be temporary and we do not anticipate any long-lasting effect on Auto Dealer Floor Plan or Auto Supplier businesses.
Turning to Slide 11 the provision with less than charge-offs for the fourth consecutive quarter reflecting our overall credit performance including improving migration trends.
Net charge-offs of $101 million declined $12 million from the fourth quarter reflecting decreases in net charge-offs of $29 million in Commercial Real Estate $13 million in Private Banking and $7 million in the Specialty Businesses.
This was partially offset by a $36 million increase in Middle Market.
The decrease in Commercial Real Estate net charge-offs reflects the fact that we have been proactive in assessing values throughout the cycle and taking marks when required.
We believe that the Commercial Real Estate industry will have a prolonged recovery and we will continue to work through our Commercial Real Estate problem loans.
The increase in Middle Market charge-offs is a result of several previously identified problem loans that are working their way through the collection process.
Based on our analysis of Middle Market default rates risk rating migration patterns as well as the watch list and nonaccruals which were stable we believe that the increase in charge-offs this quarter is not a trend.
The allowance for credit losses decreased $55 million and was 2.17% of total loans and 82% of total non-performing loans.
Recoveries remained strong at $22 million.
While this is a decrease from $27 million in the fourth quarter it is double the amount recovered a year ago.
We sold $60 million of non-performing loans in the quarter as well as $35 million in performing loans.
In total prices approximated our carrying value.
The recoveries as well as the loan sales reflect the fact that we have remained prudent in the marks we have taken throughout the cycle.
Turning to Slide 12 total nonaccrual loans decreased $84 million to $996 million.
The largest portion of the nonaccrual loans continues to be to Commercial Real Estate line of business which declined $53 million in the quarter.
Nonaccruals also decreased $19 million in the Specialty businesses and Middle Market was stable.
By geography nonaccrual loans decreased in the Western market by $64 million and Texas by $39 million.
Midwest nonaccrual loans were up $33 million.
Foreclosed property decreased $38 million as we successfully sold a number of properties at or above carrying value.
ORE expense increased as a result of lower gains on sales than in the fourth quarter of 2010 but was significantly lower than the first quarter 2010.
Total troubled debt restructurings or TDRs increased $37 million to $202 million in the first quarter.
Of the total TDRs $56 million were accruing $34 million were reduced rate and $112 million were nonaccrual.
We review workout strategies reserves and carrying values for each individual non-performing loan at least quarterly.
This proactive strategy has contributed to the decline in net charge-offs as well as an average carrying value of our nonaccrual loans of 54% compared to contractual values.
Slide 13 provides detail in our Commercial Real Estate line of business.
The planned runoff in Commercial Real Estate continues.
Total outstandings of $3.5 billion were down over $1 billion from a year ago.
Net charge-offs for Commercial Real Estate were $11 million in the first quarter a decrease of $29 million from the fourth quarter.
A net recovery of $1 million was recorded in residential properties.
Inflows to nonaccrual is greater than $2 million.
Total nonaccruals and watch list loans all decreased in the first quarter.
Values have stabilized and even improved in certain locations.
To conclude on credit we are pleased with the continued improvement in credit quality including migration trends.
Our outlook for credit quality for 2011 has not changed from what we provided in January.
We continue to expect full year 2011 net credit related charge-offs of $350 million to $400 million.
We expect the provision for credit losses will be $150 million to $200 million.
Now I'll turn the call back to Beth.
Thanks John.
Turning to Slide 14 our capital position continues to be strong.
And our capital quality is the best in our peer group.
Historically we have been active capital managers.
We expect to remain cautious in managing our capital until the economy is on sounder footing and we have more clarity on regulatory capital requirements.
Effective January 1 we doubled our quarterly dividend to $0.10 per share.
In addition in the first quarter we commenced our share repurchase buying back 400 000 shares.
Looking ahead shareholder distribution including dividends and share repurchases will be a function of earnings strength.
We continue to target an annual earnings payout ratio including dividends and share repurchases up to 50% of full year earnings.
We do not expect this target to be impacted by the Sterling acquisition.
Slide 15 provides our outlook for the full year 2011 compared to full year 2010.
As has been our practice we expect to update our outlook each quarter when we announce our financial results.
Please note that this outlook does not include any impact from the pending acquisition of Sterling Bancshares.
There is no change in our expectations for loans in 2011.
We continue to expect a low single-digit decline in average loan as growth in commercial loans will be muted by continued runoff Commercial Real Estate loans.
Excluding the Commercial Real Estate line of business we expect a low single-digit increase in average loans.
We expect that commercial loan growth momentum will build as the year progresses and the economy improves.
Average earning assets for approximately $48.5 billion is expected for 2011.
This is slightly higher than the expectation we had in January due to the higher excess liquidity in the first quarter.
Excess liquidity is expected to dissipate throughout the year due to debt maturities combined with the slowing of deposit growth and increasing loan growth.
We expect a net interest margin of 3.25% to 3.30%.
This represents an improvement over our prior outlook as prepayments in the Investment Securities portfolio has slowed and the reinvestment rate is higher than we had anticipated.
We expect the margin in the second half of the year to be stronger than in the first half due to lower excess liquidity.
As a reminder changes in excess liquidity and the resulting impact on earning assets and the net interest margin have no meaningful impact on net interest income.
As John mentioned our credit outlook is unchanged.
Also our outlook for noninterest income noninterest expense taxes and capital management have not changed.
In the event that the Durbin interchange rules are delayed we would expect our 2011 noninterest income would be stable relative to 2010.
In closing we weathered the challenges of the economic cycle well maintaining strong liquidity solid capital tight control of expenses and with credit metrics that are among the best in our peer group.
As the economy improves and interest rates increase we expect to see loan growth and margin expansion.
We expect to accelerate our growth in Texas with the pending Sterling Bank acquisition.
We believe we are ideally positioned for the future.
Now we'd be happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions]  Our first question comes from the line of Erica Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My first question is on your priorities for capital distribution of more of a medium-term basis because even if I assume a significant pick-up in loan growth post-Sterling and I buy back shares and I increase your dividend you still have plenty of Tier 1 common on a bottle-free basis.
I guess my question is what is your appetite clearly after you well-integrated the Sterling deal for dipping your toe on M&amp;A waters again? Well as we've said in the past that we're always looking for opportunities.
If the opportunity is there and it fits and when I say fit it needs to be in one of our major metropolitan areas at least partially in either California or Texas and like when we talk about Sterling has a customer base that is very similar to ours and a culture within their organization that would fit into ours because we want to use acquisitions growth and opportunity not just the consolidation.
So we are very careful as we look at opportunities.
And I think that is apparent when you look at the way we built out California.
That was approximately 10 years ago with an acquisition in Southern California and now the opportunity that Sterling has provided in joining us in the Houston market.
But we're always looking for those type of opportunities.
Okay.
And my follow-up question is on the -- when you mentioned that 200 basis points increase in the REITs would increase your net interest income by $100 million I was wondering what kind of attrition assumption you are using for corporate DDAs? No.
We don't disclose a lot of the detail on the assumptions around the modeling there.
We do make reasonable assumptions in the context of the economic environment.
It would be our expectation that we will see at some point DDA decline.
We actually have been surprised that it has been going so well for so long.
And I think there are number of factors that caused frankly a re-intermediation of deposits into the bank system and including efforts that we specifically made to improve our deposit-gathering capabilities.
But we do have an expectation that DDA will decline.
It has declined slightly in the first quarter.
But I don't think it will be at kind of the pace that perhaps it historically been.
It feels like corporations are having a bias toward to maintain more liquidity than they have in the past.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
I'd like to start -- maybe we can talk about the commitments outstanding because I noticed that commercial lending fees were down and the reserve for unfunded commitments was down a bit.
Can you talk about the changing commitments outstanding in the quarter and maybe what the pipeline looks like going into 2Q? Okay.
Let me ask Dale to answer that question.
Sure.
So we indicated the pipeline continues to be strong and we continue to see commitments grow.
But obviously the utilization rate is down a point or so from last quarter due to the fact that our commitments are growing on a faster rate than outstandings.
So I'm looking forward to the economy picking up so we get to see utilization rates increase which I think will have a fairly significant increase in our outstandings.
So in these commitments by and large are across pretty much all of our business lines.
We’re certainly seeing strength in the Middle Market.
We're certainly seeing strength at POS and energy global and corporate.
And even within Michigan we're beginning to see some activity even though at a somewhat slower pace.
So it is there.
Structures are still pretty decent.
Pricing is still pretty decent.
There is some pressure of course competitively there which you would expect from where we are.
Our pipelines continue to grow and our commitments to commit continue to be strong which is the quality piece of the backlog.
Okay.
Thanks Dale.
Maybe just a follow-up question on capital.
Just following up on comments that you plan to be active with share buyback in 2011.
One related to the Sterling deal when will the window open when you could start buying back stock? And then second it looks like you may have tweaked the guidance a bit focusing on full-year payout of 50%.
Is this a signal that you're increasing the amount of shares you expect to buy back in 2011? The guidance we gave in January was that we would pay it would be less than 50%.
We have as to your point we wanted to make it clear because the payout in the first quarter was not as close to that level.
We do want to make it clear that we do intend to repurchase shares as well as including the dividend up to the 50%.
So there will be a variation by quarter a little less in the first quarter.
We would anticipate when you add up the quarters together for the full year we would be close to that 50%.
And Beth any blackout windows related to the Sterling deal? We don't have any inhibitors to allow us to accomplish what we need to accomplish for share repurchase related to Sterling.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
This is actually Rob Placet from Matt's group.
First question as it relates to your Commercial Real Estate portfolios they've been declining for some time.
How much more runoff do you think you'll have here? And any sense of when you'll see growth in your core Commercial portfolios more than offset additional declines in real estate? Sure.
This is Dale.
I'll answer that.
It's an interesting situation because as you know we've been working on our Real Estate portfolio Commercial Real Estate for some time which at the end of the day I think has been a good thing because we've got in front of a lot of a lot of the issues pretty early.
The liquidity in the market has increased the -- a lot of our real estate project the vast majority the construction is completed.
So that risk is gone.
And most of these projects are performing reasonably well leasing up nicely and so forth.
So there will be more likely to go to an end market that we are not -- or typically looking for permanent loan market.
We are obviously construction lenders.
With that said so we'll continue to see some runoff as we have seen.
But we are seeing more opportunities particularly on the multi-family side and particularly in California and Texas.
But those properties have fared well during this downturn.
And I think there are great opportunities to grow there and we are doing that now.
But we won't grow enough just looking at that piece to offset the decline in Commercial Real Estate.
So I suspect we'll continue to see runoff in that book certainly through the rest of this year.
But you had also asked about loan kind of inflection point on loans.
And I think our expectation is that we would begin to see that stabilize even with Commercial Real Estate and in fact I’m looking into the second half of the year.
And to the point on mortgage banking for a moment because that was obviously a key ingredient to average loans declining at the quarter.
There was a huge runoff particularly in the fourth quarter of consumer re-fis given the rate environment.
The rate environment has changed the re-fis are way down.
So we fell off from about $1 billion or so.
Our mortgage banking outstanding is down to something closer to $500 million.
My expectation would be that we're not going to see certainly any significant declines from the level we're at today.
We may see a little better improvement there.
But certainly we wouldn't expect to see the level of falloff which would really be the rest of the portfolio because it's fallen so dramatically.
I think we've seen kind of a close to a stabilization in that particular book.
And I think if you look at it if you excluded Mortgage Banker Finance decline in the first quarter we actually would have been up even with Real Estate commercial Real Estate runoff.
Right.
Yes that's the key.
That's the key.
Okay thanks.
And just a follow up on your loan pipeline improving this quarter what do you think it'll take for this to translate into actual loan growth? Well my I view is employment growing the economy getting some legs under it a bit now as Ralph said on his comments.
And as you all know there's been so many sort of disruption whether it's about the issues that occurred in Japan the Middle East itself which is still not stable.
Energy prices fuel prices increasing.
There's still a lot of concern I think about where this economy is today and in fact where it's headed.
So I think until there's more clarity and frankly that's one of the reasons I think deposits continue to increase as corporations are very conservative today holding on to more liquidity which will probably continue to be the case even as the economy rebounds.
So I wish I knew the answer to that.
All I can tell you is that the economy has got to look a little better and be more predictable.
And part of that is just employment growth to me.
We are starting to see some of that but it's very very modest right now.
Yes.
And as Dale said that will build the confidence.
And I think that’s kind of the one thing that's of concern at the moment are the various things that Dale reiterated.
People want to feel like things are stable.
And as confidence builds you'll start to see people move out and invest in the future.
They're getting positioned.
And it's still a positive tone.
But I think it needs a period of time where people can see exactly what's happening even if it's slow so that they have confidence in investing and thinking about returns to the future.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
In terms of your margin outlook the modest increase in your outlook it implies a pretty good pick-up in the trajectory in the margin.
Can you talk about your thought process on how you get there? Is it more so a function of the improving loan trends or deposit costs? We did as you said revised upward our outlook for net interest margins.
And we did also indicated in our comments that we would expect the second half margin -- in the second half of the year to be higher than first half.
And primarily that's due to the fact that it is our expectation that excess liquidity will be lower in the second half than the first half primarily driven by 3 factors.
One is we have debt maturities of $1.4 billion which are in second and third quarters.
And we expect the deposit growth to at least stabilize and perhaps go down.
And as I mentioned earlier we expect loan growth to begin to head in a positive direction.
So all of those work together to have excess liquidity to be lower in the second half of the year which helps the rate margin improve.
Okay.
So that does assume some runoff in your deposit base? Some but it's combined with the $1.4 billion debt maturities and also traction on loan outstandings increasing at some point.
Okay.
All right.
And then in terms of Securities portfolio can you just update us on your plans for the portfolio and if you're looking to essentially reinvest cash flows into loans as loan growth improves? Yes.
We have indicated that we would still expect that our portfolio the available for-sale portfolio excluding our auction-rate securities would be about the $6.5 million level.
That can vary up and down around any quarter.
But we don't have any change in that outlook that continues to be the case.
So we are reinvesting the pre-pays that come on the mortgage-backed securities into additional mortgage-backed securities so to maintain the average outstandings to about the $6.5 billion excluding auction rate securities.
Okay.
All right.
And do you have the monthly or the quarterly cash flows coming off of the book? Well what I can say is we have -- you're talking about the mortgage-backed portfolio? Right or the Securities portfolio in total whichever you have in terms of the total cash flow.
Yes.
Well the -- we are seeing our prepays on the Mortgage-backed Securities portfolio peaked in December.
And in March those levels were half of the prepay levels during December.
So we've seen the prepay levels significantly decline so the reinvestment of cash flow is obviously a lot less in the month of March than it was at December.
Great.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Thanks.
You mentioned in the press release the essence swaps that runoff in the quarter.
Do you guys have any plans to put on additional swaps or I guess in any other way change your asset sensitivity profile? With interest rates so low that's why we enter into interest rate swaps is to hedge the downside risk because we're more impacted from our balance sheet structure to falling rates.
Because we don't anticipate rates falling any further it is not our bias to put on additional swaps because there's no protection provided really for falling rates.
We don't expect it.
As rates begin to rise and they will at some point we will be evaluating obviously interest rate swaps and hedges as we look toward the next downturn in rates.
But that will be a while as you can imagine.
Yes.
Okay.
And then just one quick question the other noninterest income line looks like it was up about $17 million year-over-year and sort of drove the total noninterest income up.
Just remind us what was in that number? And is that particular line item sustainable? You're referencing year-over-year? Yes.
I mean yes the $37 million this quarter.
There were a number of things in the category this quarter compared to year ago levels that we mentioned principal investing in warrants were higher in the first quarter of this year versus last.
We also had deferred comp which was a higher number deferred compensation asset returns in the first quarter this year.
We also had higher customer derivative income.
Some of those the principal warrants and deferred comp fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter depending on the market returns in the marketplace.
In customer derivative we've made good improvements over the last year in terms more activity in that realm.
Principal investing and warrants again could be more variable from quarter-to-quarter.
So there -- it's hard to answer the question on which kind of the run rate is there.
But we've certainly seen nice improvements over the last year.
Okay.
Now that helps.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
This is Kevin Barker for Paul Miller here.
Just wanted to get into the Texas market and some of the stuff you're seeing on C&amp;I what specific markets.
Is it specifically Houston or elsewhere? Is it all C&amp;I? I'm just wondering if you could delve into the loan growth there? Okay.
Lars you want to...
Yes.
Frankly the Texas market I would say very broadly speaking it's been good for us across a number of energy groups.
If you'd look at what we reported clearly our energy group has been a nice source of growth.
However our just kind of core Middle Market lending has continued to show very very nice results both in commitments and in outstanding.
Frankly I think with the acquisition of Sterling it really positions us to take advantage of Houston and introduces us in a broader sense into a very attractive San Antonio market really firms up our Dallas presence.
So I would really characterize it as kind of a broad-based across the Texas market and our industry groups.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Crédit Suisse.
Just first I just want to hit on loan growth here and really C&amp;I loan growth specifically.
Was there any kind of large unusual pieces that kind of went into the fourth quarter went out the first quarter that may have hurt the comparison? And also kind of net-net what's really driving the trend here? Is it really kind of increased competition in your desire to maintain attractive pricing or is it really kind of lower demand in maybe some of your markets? Dale you want to take that? Yes.
I think that overall there wasn't anything in particular if you will that went in and out in terms of new sort of things we look at in the fourth quarter the things we booked from the strong backlog and so forth.
Because again a lot of the things we booked in the fourth quarter some of which had draw downs some of which didn't in some of those commitments.
Clearly mortgage banking was the key issue in the quarter that we just talk about.
It's hard to if you will offset $500-some million of reduction quarter-over-quarter in outstandings in the mortgage banking especially when you couple that with the runoff in Commercial Real Estate in the quarter of about another $300 million.
If you for the moment stepped out on the side of the table and as we've talked about before you look at where we've seen the growth it's where you'd like to see it.
It's in the growth markets.
It's in Middle Market.
It's in energy.
It's in POS.
It's in dealer.
So those things continue to do well.
We're seeing 5% 6% growth rates typically there.
Middle Market about 1%.
We're competitive.
We understand we have pricing disciplines.
We understand that at the end of the day we're going to underwrite credit the way we've always underwritten credit because we've all seen how well that positions us in the kind of tough economy we've been through.
But we are very competitive in our markets.
I think we've got a reputation particularly in our Specialty businesses and we have a lot of Specialty businesses.
But we've been in Middle Markets strong Middle Market lenders for years.
So is the competition tough? Sure.
But I think we're always going to be in the deal that we want to be in and chances are given typically the relationships we have we're going to win the day.
And I'd like to add that actually if you compare the lines of business growth in the first quarter there were more lines of business growing than there were in the fourth quarter.
And again Mortgage Banker is a big impact.
But apart from Mortgage Banker we had more lines of business grow in the first quarter than we did in the fourth.
And yield is holding up well.
Yes.
Our margins our loan margin were I think looked really good in the quarter as well.
So that just speaks to what I said in terms of our pricing discipline.
It is building relationships.
It is not just plain price.
Connectivity matters.
Right.
Thanks.
And I heard you kind of qualify the loan pipeline the C&amp;I loan pipeline is improving and stronger.
Is there any way you can help us think about it quantitatively roughly what it's done quarter-over-quarter? No we don't talk about that.
But just suffice it to say that our commitments to commit which to me what that simply means is we've approved something.
We've been working with the client whether with some existing client or a new client.
We've improved something.
We've put it in front of them.
They're considering it in many cases they've already had signed it saying yes we're going to go with you.
We're going to move our relationship.
I emphasize relationship.
That commitments to commit number is stronger and has been improving I think steadily over the last few quarter.
I look at that as really the quality aspect of the pipeline.
Got it.
All right great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just to follow-up on that one Dale can you actually give us the amount of your actual commitments quarter-to-quarter? I know that utilization rates were down because of the increase in commitments.
But do you actually have a dollar amount of those commitments? Dale? I don't -- did we disclose that the dollar amount? The commitments are up in Texas and Western.
They are down somewhat in Midwest.
So they're not up a lot.
They were up nicely in the fourth quarter up a lesser amount in this quarter in total but impacted a little by a reduction of some commitments in the Midwest.
So Texas and Western the commitments were up in the quarter.
Brian our key businesses commitments were up.
There were some losses else where.
The point there is the utilization rates were not as high obviously probably 44% from about 45% a quarter ago.
So utilization is still a key issue for us.
And I wanted to harken back to what Dale said about commitments to commit because we've talked about that number before.
In the third and fourth quarters those were about $800 million commitments to commit.
They were $1.3 billion in the first quarter so up very nicely.
And those are a better indicator than the pipeline because in the end pipeline doesn't all turn into actual commitments.
So commitments to commit as Dale mentioned were in the last phases of documentation and all the things that go into it.
So that was up significantly in the quarter.
Because again it's the quality piece of the backlog.
Yes.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great.
That's very helpful.
That's very helpful.
And maybe just another quick follow up I guess the discussion earlier John you had made a point about the tsunami impact did affect the Auto Supply chain.
And I guess the Auto Floor Plan business was down a little bit in the quarter but we didn't have strong auto sales in the first quarter.
So is there any sort of a replenishment that we could maybe see that Floor Plan business come back in the second quarter? And maybe you could talk about the auto supplier book too? Is there any sort of maybe move over to domestic suppliers getting more business out of this? Maybe you can just talk about that? Let me take that Brian.
This is Dale again.
We are clearly -- there's a couple of phenomena if you will in the Dealer Floor Plan business.
Historically dealers have large amounts of inventory days on hand 70 80 days wasn't necessarily unusual.
Dealers and the OEM the manufacturers are much more disciplined at least for the moment.
So what's happening is the amount of inventory on dealer lots is a lot less on average.
The days on hand is lower which obviously then means that the floor plan draws tend to be a little less.
And that's just a phenomena that's occurred over the last year or two.
If you look at our Floor Plan business we're looking at a lot of opportunities.
As you know we're a top-tier Auto Dealer Floor Plan financer.
That's the kind of client we want.
I suspect that as auto sales continue to do fairly well I mean we're looking at $13 million or so units maybe more.
But we'll see.
We'll continue to see I think the Dealer business do well in both.
As far as the suppliers are concerned I think the suppliers are doing very well.
They have rationalized their expense base.
As I've said before they're dealing historically through the cycle the ones that have survived or dealt with some lower revenue numbers.
We're starting to see the revenue numbers come back a bit as the car sales begin to increase.
So all in all I think that's a good sign.
And Brian this is John.
And while you might see some availability issues that could reduce unit sales somewhat you're going to see better margins on the cars that are sold because the incentives are all going to melt away due to availability concerns.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Right.
And I guess maybe just the one comment I just want to make it seems like you've got a pipeline that's building.
So you had a lot of noise with the Mortgage Banker Finance book that had a big impact on your commercial balances for the quarter.
The runoff is flowing in Commercial Real Estate and it seems like if you're sticking to the same sort of full-year guidance of low single-digit decreases in average loans it seemed like that's somewhat conservative.
And it seems like there is some dry powder that could come out of the balance sheet here and especially with the commitments picking up.
And if your margin is at least stable where it is it seems like you could see something in the second half of the year that actually starts to be some positive loan growth.
Yes.
And Brian you have to remember that guidance is full year '10 -- '11 versus full year '10.
So we are starting off the year $1.7 billion lower in loans in the first quarter of this year than a year ago.
So that's why when you actually do the math -- and as I mentioned earlier we see perhaps even in the second we're trying to cross that line if you will of having increased loan growth and then having a better situation in the second half.
But the way you do the math year-over-year we're still -- are still estimated that we're going to be down low-single digits.
Right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Right.
So from here it looks like we could see that like you said maybe across the line in the second quarter with [indiscernible].
It could be.
And as we mentioned earlier if you exclude Mortgage Banker this quarter we have loan growth even with Commercial Real Estate runoff.
So that's a good sign.
And as Dale mentioned Mortgage Banker is much lower levels of $566 million on average in the quarter.
That's down from $1.1 billion.
And it doesn't feel like it's going to go significantly lower then that.
It's been kind of a run rate as in kind of average that it ran in '09 actually.
So our feel for core C&amp;I looks -- I mean we're optimistic with the pipelines where they are.
And so we'll see.
But we certainly hope that the economy continues to make some progress there because clearly that will only benefit everyone in the economy.
So we're looking forward to that.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> All right.
Great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Bryan Batory from Ken's Team.
I was wondering if you guys could let me know what your thoughts are on Reg Q and if you see any adverse impact on deposit pricing or asset sensitivity longer term? Reg Q a lot permits interest to be paid on deposit doesn't require it.
So that's the first point.
The second is today we already -- some of our customers corporate customers give value to those balances anyway through an earnings credit.
So to the extent that economic equation kind of continues whether in explicit interest or it's the earnings credit situation we don't see unless there's an economic change of relationship on value between us and our customers that will give significant impact from Reg Q and particularly in this low-rate environment.
As rates rise and as behaviors of bankers turn into a different situation then we'll have to monitor it.
But I also see Reg Q as a possibility to continue to encourage re-intermediation into the banking system.
And that's a positive from our vantage point and could be opportunities there as well.
And certainly if it is allowing us to increase deposits even further then it's certainly a cheaper way to raise funding than it is through wholesale funding.
So while there's some negatives to it we also see some positives.
And we'll just know over time how it's working out.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
And one follow up longer-term do you guys see the margin being capable of getting back to the 4%-plus level that had ran previously? And if so what are some of the drivers of that? Thanks.
We don't see structural reasons why our balance sheet hasn't fundamentally changed.
The kinds of business that we do has not fundamentally changed in a significant way.
So fundamentally I don't see any inhibitor to getting back to the margin levels that we've had in the past high 3s low 4s.
Obviously an important aspect of that is getting interest rates at a higher more normal level.
If we get rates at what you would say would more normalized just a 300 or 400 basis points versus 25 we could get back to those levels.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
I know your guidance -- or excuse me your full year outlook does not incorporate the Sterling transaction.
But since it is going to close in the second quarter could you maybe talk about the impact particularly to average earning assets.
Sterling had I believe $1.6 billion of securities at the end of the first quarter and $2.6 billion of loans.
So would you expect that the securities part in particular to decline in size once it's incorporated into Comerica's balance sheet? Terry we will be giving guidance in July in connection with our second quarter earnings which we'll have Sterling in for a period of time which would incorporate the bank in total the consolidated entity so you can get some understanding of what that means whether it's similar to the kinds of guidance we give today.
We are going through an evaluation of a lot of different aspects of both the funding side as well as the investment side for Sterling.
I would say -- I could say that we are certainly going to have a bigger balance sheet.
And as a result of that probably the $6.5 billion that we have of the Securities portfolio will likely be higher whether it's the full amount of the $1.5 billion they have paid or continuing to evaluate.
But clearly the consolidated entity will have a larger Securities portfolio than Comerica's standalone will.
And over time it will match our portfolio.
The portfolio from a quality standpoint and duration standpoint will look very similar to ours as well.
And just one follow up on credit.
I guess first off the recovery in the Residential/Commercial Real Estate did not go unnoticed.
I know that's been a tough two years.
And now the question on credit was just any theme or consistency among those C&amp;I Middle Market charge-offs that you commented on earlier that showed a slight increase in the first quarter? Nothing that I would say is a theme.
The trend was dominated by a couple of credits that were previously identified in the Michigan Middle Market portfolio.
And they're I guess working their way through the system.
When you take a look at our major credit metrics as we said before they've improved yet again this quarter and 6 or 7 quarters in a row.
There was a great improvement in the watch list as well.
So we have analyzed that Middle Market trend this quarter in about every which way we can think of from the watch list to migration trends to default trends and nonaccruals.
And everything looks stable.
We don't believe that is a trend of future indications in Middle Market.
Thanks John.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with Davidson.
Just a question I know you commented a little bit earlier on the competitive environment.
I wonder if you could differentiate the competitive environment a bit between Texas and California right now? Dale? Well I would say couple of things that in the Texas market in particular where we clearly established I think a great presence particularly since we have our headquarters here and all of our senior executives are very active in the market very active in the community.
We clearly I think have a nice advantage competitively.
And I think we're doing well particularly in the space that we want to participate in Small business Middle Market Energy.
We clearly -- those are business lines that we've been in for some time and have successfully prosecuted.
And our market share is -- and particularly with the acquisition of Sterling I think will help a lot.
In California we're dealing with a number of competitors depending on the business line.
The Technology and Life Sciences business for example will have a very limited number of technology competitors that we know very well and compete well against versus the Middle Market whether you're in the South or the North it can have some difference on kind of the way your competitors are.
But it's generally the folks that you all know.
So the competitive environment in the Middle Market generally in California is very aggressive.
It's clearly on structure and price.
But even there we see nice inroads we've seen nice growth in backlogs and increasing market share.
It's a large market where we have a small share.
We prosecute the same brand of business banking there that we do on all of our other markets and we believe that given what we do and how long we've been in that market we will continue to be successful.
Would you say on the Middle Market front the pricing competition is greater in California and Texas right now? I don't know that I would characterize it as more competitive on the pricing front in California versus Texas perhaps a bit.
Clearly folks are sitting with a lot of liquidity and looking to deploy that in any way they can looking for obviously good earning assets.
So California may be a bit more competitive.
But again it depends on the market.
It depends on the line of business.
For us frankly if you look at our TLS business which has grown nicely and has big deposit business and strong backlogs the pricing there tends to be -- I don't want to say it's not competitive but because it is we kind of -- I think we hold our own very well.
Middle Market has to be perhaps a little competitive there.
But in general the competition is tough in most places where we're doing business.
We've seen that.
And from our perspective as well we tend to sit in kind of the space that says we like granularity in our portfolios.
We see a lot of competitors may be looking to take bigger pieces of loans that maybe we would otherwise like to take and we're careful about that as well.
So it kind of depends on the line of business and the competitor.
There are very large competitors in California which we may not see as much in Texas.
Okay great.
And just one last question if I can.
On the commercial loan side where you have had some growth how much of that would you estimate has come participating in syndicated loans versus your own loans? Most of that stuff we've just originated ourselves.
There is really -- the only place frankly you might see a little bit more of that might be in our energy book because there you're not doing the very large folks.
You're doing kind of the mid-cap kind of companies where you want to share the risk and share the deals.
But even there we're looking for obviously full relationships.
And many times we leave those deals because we've got a strong Energy business.
But everything else would be -- really we're the only bank.
Okay great.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Just two quick questions for you.
First when I look at your loans by market is there anything in the international line of business that caused the increase quarter-over-quarter? No.
I would say there is nothing in particular that would've caused that.
Frankly a lot of what we look at there is reverse investment foreign firms doing business in the states typically.
And so we've seen some nice activity there but those tend to be Middle Market-like deals that happened to be owned by foreign parents often times.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then secondarily on the Sterling results this morning was there -- I know you said it was in line kind of with your expectations.
But was there anything either positive or negative that surprised you? I think the comment is very much in line with our expectations.
And our next question comes from the line of Brent Erensel with Portales Parters.
On the return of capital you talked about 50% and it was likely resume in the second half.
Just doing the math I guess the dividend is going to cost you by $80 million a year and that leaves maybe $120 million for buybacks.
That's about 3 million shares.
Is that sort of in your thinking? Well if I told you if I answer that I'd be giving you earnings guidance which we don't.
All I can say is the case that which you saw in the first quarter we are at about a 33% payout.
Our goal is to get to a full year payout in total for the full year of up to 50%.
And so obviously the pace will pick up for the balance of the year in order to get to that goal.
Okay.
More specifically do you base this on annual or quarterly results? The guidance we gave you was looking at it on an annual basis.
But obviously we monitor the capital situation on a quarterly basis.
But we're really looking at a -- the guidance we gave you was an annual target but we do get consideration as we go through the quarters.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would now turn the conference over to Ralph Babb for any further presentation.
Well I would like to thank everyone for joining us and your interest in Comerica.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Persons you may begin your conference.
Thank you Ashley.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; our Chief Financial Officer Beth Acton; our Chief Credit Officer John Killian; Lars Anderson Vice Chairman of the Business Bank; and Dale Greene Executive Vice President of the Business Bank.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our second quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures.
And in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported first quarter net income of $96 million or $0.53 per share.
The second quarter 2011 results were primarily driven by continued reductions in credit costs and good control of expenses offset by muted loan demand in a slowly improving economy as well as a tax settlement.
Second quarter revenue was down 1% when compared to the first quarter reflecting a modest reduction in average loans of 1% and a decline in loan yields due to a decrease in LIBOR.
Turning to Slide 4 and highlights from the second quarter.
Total average loans were down 1% and period-end loans were up modestly from March 31.
We were pleased to see commercial loan growth in the second quarter driven primarily by increases in Middle Market Global Corporate Banking and Specialty businesses partially offset by a decrease in floor plan loans in National Dealer Services.
Commercial Real Estate declined offsetting the commercial loan growth.
We expect the pace of decline in Commercial Real Estate to lessen in the second half of 2011 and National Dealer Services to rebound in the fourth quarter as the impacts of the tragic Japanese earthquakes and tsunami diminish.
Average core deposits were up $881 million or about 2% from the first quarter of 2011 which led to higher excess liquidity.
The net interest margin decreased 11 basis points from the first quarter primarily due to the increase in excess liquidity and the decrease in LIBOR.
We continue to manage our expenses effectively in the second quarter as noninterest expenses decreased $6 million from the first quarter of 2011 which includes $5 million of costs incurred in connection with the pending acquisition of Sterling Bancshares.
Broad-based steady improvement in credit quality continued in the second quarter.
This was the eighth consecutive quarter of decline in net charge-offs with an $11 million decrease.
We had strong recoveries of $35 million.
Credit quality migration remains positive as demonstrated by the $339 million decline in watch list loans which provide our best early indicator of future credit quality as well as the $60 million decline in nonperforming assets.
As a result of these overall improvements to our credit metrics the provision for loan losses decreased to $47 million.
The second quarter provision for income taxes included net after-tax charges of $8 million or $0.04 per share which primarily reflected a $19 million charge related to a final settlement agreement with the IRS.
The settlement involved the repatriation of foreign earnings on a structured investment transaction.
This was partially offset by a release of tax reserves of $9 million resulting from our planned participation in a recently enacted California voluntary compliance initiative program.
Comerica has no other investment structures with uncertain tax positions.
Our capital position remains strong and the quality of our capital remains solid as evidenced by our Tier 1 common capital ratio of 10.53%.
We expect to be an active repurchaser of shares for the balance of 2011.
Within our geographic market we have seen some positive signs as customers and prospects remain cautiously optimistic in this environment.
Loan commitments and utilization rates are up and our loan pipeline is strong.
In Texas job growth remained steady while higher energy prices have supported increased drilling activity in the state.
Texas is well positioned to outperform the national economy in 2011.
We continue to see good loan and deposit growth as well as excellent credit quality in Texas.
In Michigan strong state payroll growth and increased auto production drove our Michigan Economic Activity Index up over the first quarter of 2011.
Some headwinds including the Japanese disaster-related supply chain disruptions should dissipate over time providing the Michigan economy with more strength going forward.
Our Michigan Middle Market and Global Corporate bankers reported strong lending activity in the second quarter as demonstrated by increased outstandings.
In California job growth has stalled and the state's economic recovery remains sluggish.
We believe declining home prices and higher energy prices dampen growth in California in the first part of the year.
As headwinds dissipate we believe the local economy should begin showing more strength against the background of moderate national expansion.
Our lending teams in California reported stronger activity in the second quarter particularly in Middle Market but also in Technology and Life Sciences and Global Corporate Banking.
No matter how the national economy performs we see multiple opportunities to preserve or enhance revenue.
This includes our pending acquisition of Sterling our plans for new or enhanced products and in the future enhancements we are making to our sales management processes.
Also we are diligent in managing our expenses with selective hiring and a cautious approach to our banking center expansion program.
Our expenses are lower than they were 5 years ago.
During this past recession we reduced our staffing level about 17% by finding more efficient ways of doing our work while at the same time-protecting the revenue producers who are vital to our future.
Turning to Slide 5.
We are excited about our pending acquisition of Sterling Bancshares a strategically compelling transaction that significantly boosts our presence in the growing state of Texas.
Following the expiration of the required 15-day Department of Justice waiting period associated with the Federal Reserve board's approval order we expect the acquisition will close on July 28 2011.
This morning Sterling announced its second quarter earnings and their core operating performance was consistent with our expectations.
Sterling's results also included a loss from discontinued operations reflected an expected sale of an investment advisory subsidiary.
Sterling's solid deposit base and well-located branch network are expected to triple our Houston market share provide us entry into the attractive San Antonio and Kerrville regions and complement our existing footprint in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
In short it is a unique opportunity to provide us enhanced growth going forward.
We expect a smooth transition given the size of the acquisition and our in-depth knowledge of the Texas market.
We look forward to welcoming Sterling customers and employees to Comerica as we begin this new chapter in our Texas banking history.
In closing we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on growth opportunities underscored in the second quarter by the increase in outstandings in Middle Market Global Corporate Banking and several of our Specialty businesses and by our pending acquisition of Sterling.
Before turning the call over to Beth and John I want to remind you that Lars and Dale are here as well to answer any questions you may have.
As you may already know Dale is retiring in August after a long successful career at the bank.
And now I'll turn the call over to Beth and John.
Thanks Ralph.
Good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6 which provides an overview of the terms of the Sterling transaction.
This is 100% stock deal for an implied purchase price of $853 million based on the stock price as of June 30 and a fixed exchange ratio of 0.2365.
The deal economics expense synergies merger-related charges and percentage loan marks are consistent with those we provided at the time of the announcement in January.
It is expected to be breakeven to Comerica's earnings in 2012 excluding merger and integration costs of approximately $80 million aftertax and be increasingly accretive thereafter.
Estimated synergies including expense savings of $56 million to be fully realized on a run-rate basis by year end 2012.
Also our conservative assessment resulted in loan marks of about 12% which results in an estimated fair value of approximately $2.1 billion for the loan portfolio.
While we have not included revenue synergies in our analysis of the deal economics we believe there are opportunities to leverage the distribution channels; to increase cross sales of cash-management services including bankcard; foreign exchange and derivatives; as well as wealth-management products.
Additional information regarding the accounting for this transaction can be found in the appendix to this presentation.
Turning to Slide 7.
Total average loans of $39.2 billion declined $377 million or 1% in the second quarter.
Total period-end loans at June 30 increased modestly from March 31.
Period-end commercial loans also known as C&amp;I loans increased $1.1 billion or 6% in the second quarter excluding Dealer Floor Plan.
As we anticipated average outstandings in National Dealer Services were down $194 million or 5% and down $435 million at period end.
This was a result of the supply-chain disruptions related to the Japanese disaster.
We believe dealers will start to rebuild their inventory in August and September.
Therefore average outstandings for the third quarter will be somewhat less than the second quarter.
However period-end outstandings will be relatively stable.
Average Commercial Real Estate decreased $393 million or 9% and is expected to continue to decline.
However the pace of decline appears to be slowing as shown by the smaller decline in period-end Commercial Real Estate outstandings.
Excluding these 2 segments period-end and average total loans increased.
Line utilization for the portfolio as a whole was up almost 1 percentage point to 45% as the increase in outstandings was greater than the increase in commitments.
Commitments increased in all major markets.
By lines of business we are encouraged to see commitments have increased in Middle Market Small Business and several of the Specialty businesses.
Our loan pipelines remain strong in the second quarter.
Commitments to commit which is the last stage in the pipeline before the deal is booked increased nicely for the second quarter in a row across almost all business lines.
Slide 8 shows loan growth in selected portfolios.
Average loans increased in Middle Market and Global Corporate Banking in all major markets as well as Specialty businesses.
Middle Market average loans increased $160 million or 1% from the first quarter.
Midwest and Texas markets were the primary drivers.
Global Corporate Banking average loans increased $136 million or 3%.
Specialty businesses increased $62 million or 1% led by Mortgage Banker Energy and Technology and Life Sciences.
Loan growth in Texas continued in the second quarter with average loans increasing $47 million or 1% after a $389 million increase in the first quarter and $78 million increase in the fourth quarter.
As shown on Slide 9 core deposit growth was strong in the second quarter.
Average core deposits increased $881 million compared to first quarter reflecting a $554 million increase in interest-bearing and $327 million increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
Increased average deposits were noted in all major geographic markets led by a $389 million increase in Texas.
By line of business strong growth was reported in many lines of business particularly Technology and Life Sciences Personal Banking Global Corporate Banking and Wealth Management.
This is partially offset by declines in Middle Market Mortgage Banker Finance which is a hopeful sign that businesses' working capital needs are starting to grow as we also saw a pickup in loan activity in these segments.
As outlined on Slide 10 the net interest margin 3.14% declined 11 basis points compared to the first quarter.
The decline primarily reflected the impact of an increase in excess liquidity loan repricing based on a decrease in LIBOR and the maturity of interest rate swaps at positive spreads in the first quarter.
Excess liquidity had a 21 basis point negative impact on the net interest margin compared to 14 basis points in the first quarter.
Excess liquidity was represented by an average of $3.1 billion -- $3.4 billion deposited with the Federal Reserve Bank.
This was a $1.1 billion increase from the first quarter.
The increase was primarily due to very strong deposit growth.
Loan yields were modestly lower primarily reflecting the decline in LIBOR.
The majority of our loans are LIBOR-based.
One month LIBOR averaged 20 basis points in the second quarter 6 basis points lower than the first quarter.
We have not seen any material loan spread compression.
However we are seeing increased competition for customers as liquidity in the banking system continues to increase.
Our balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
With Sterling on a pro forma basis we believe that a 200 basis points increase in interest rates over a 12-month period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in about $124 million increase in annual net interest income.
Turning to Slide 11.
Noninterest expenses decreased $6 million to $409 million in the second quarter.
Noninterest expenses include -- included $5 million of costs incurred in connection with the pending Sterling acquisition.
This was more than offset by declines in a number of noninterest expense categories such as salary FDIC insurance software and other real estate also known as ORE.
As you can see on this slide through ongoing efficiency efforts we have consistently reduced our workforce over the past several years.
Now John Killian our Chief Credit Officer will discuss credit quality starting on Slide 12.
Good morning.
Broad-based steady improvement in credit quality continued in the second quarter.
Net credit related charge-offs decreased $11 million to $90 million.
Nonperforming assets declined $60 million.
Foreclosed property declined $4 million.
Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing decreased $8 million.
And the watch list which is the best early indicator we have for our future credit quality declined $339 million.
The watch list is primarily comprised of special mention substandard and nonaccrual loans.
The allowance for loan losses decreased $43 million and was 2.06% of total loans and 83% of total nonperforming loans.
The improvement in all of these metrics led to a decrease in the provision for loan losses of $47 million.
Turning to Slide 13.
The provision was less than charge-offs for the fifth consecutive quarter reflecting our overall credit performance including improving migration trends.
The decrease in net charge-offs in the second quarter primarily reflected a decrease of $22 million in the Middle Market partially offset by an increase of $9 million in Private Banking.
We continue to have excellent recoveries which increased in the second quarter to $35 million $13 million greater than the first quarter.
Our strategy of using our experienced professional collection group to work through problem loans in an orderly fashion has maximized recoveries.
On the right side of this slide is the watch list which declined $339 million from the first quarter.
All 3 categories special mention substandard accrual and substandard nonaccrual declined reflecting the positive migration patterns we have been seeing across the portfolio.
The watch list has declined $3.4 billion since the peak in the third quarter of 2009.
Of note the annual Shared National Credit exam results have been received and were reflected in the second quarter metrics.
Also another topic of possible interest is our international exposure.
We have no sovereign exposure to Portugal Ireland Italy Greece or Spain.
Our international strategy as it pertains to Europe is to focus on European corporates doing business in North America with an emphasis on our footprint markets.
Turning to Slide 14.
Total nonaccrual loans decreased $55 million to $941 million.
The largest portion of the nonaccrual loans continues to be the Commercial Real Estate line of business which declined $71 million in the quarter.
Foreclosed property decreased $4 million as we successfully sold a number of properties.
Total troubled debt restructurings or TDRs increased $10 million to $212 million in the second quarter.
Reduced rate and nonaccrual accounted for 2/3 of the total TDRs.
We do not expect to see a significant impact on reserves as a result of the new FASB rule on TDRs.
We review workout strategies reserves and carrying values for each individual nonperforming loan at least quarterly.
This proactive strategy has contributed to the decline in net charge-offs as well as an average carrying value of our nonaccrual loans of 53% compared to contractual values.
To conclude on credit we are pleased with the continued improvement in credit quality including migration trends.
We improved our credit outlook due to better credit metrics than we anticipated including higher recoveries.
Our outlook for the second half of the year which incorporates Sterling from the expected closing date of July 28 is for net credit-related charge-offs to be between $165 million and $185 million with a provision for credit losses expected to be between $65 million and $85 million.
Now I'll turn the call back to Beth.
Thanks John.
Turning to Slide 15.
Our capital position continues to be strong and the quality of our capital is among the best in our peer group.
The acquisition of Sterling is expected to have minimal impact on our Tier 1 ratio and our tangible common equity ratio will be about 10.5% on a pro forma basis.
Earlier this year we commenced our share repurchase program buying back 400 000 shares in the first quarter.
We did not repurchase any shares in the second quarter due to the pending acquisition of Sterling.
We expect to resume repurchases in the third quarter.
We continue to target an annual earnings payout ratio including dividends and share repurchases of up to 50% of full year earnings.
Slide 16 provides our outlook for the second half of 2011.
It is based on the incorporation of the projected results of Sterling from the expected closing date of July 28 through year-end 2011.
This second half combined outlook is compared to Comerica's first half results on a stand-alone basis.
As has been our practice we expect to update our outlook each quarter when we announce our financial results.
We expect a mid single-digit increase in average loan due to the acquisition of Sterling loans at fair value.
Average earning assets are expected to be about $52.5 billion reflecting increases primarily related to Sterling in average loans and average investment securities available for sale partially offset by a decrease in excess liquidity.
An average net interest margin of 3.35% to 3.40% includes the benefit from the accretion purchase discount on the acquired Sterling loan portfolio as well as a reduction in excess liquidity and LIBOR remaining in second quarter levels.
As a reminder changes in excess liquidity and the resulting impact on the earnings asset and the net interest margin have no meaningful impact on net interest income.
The outlook is continued on Slide 17.
Our outlook is for net credit-related charge-offs between $165 million and $185 million for the second half of 2001 -- of 2011 with a provision for credit losses expected to be between $65 million and $85 million.
As far as noninterest income we expect a mid single-digit decline in second half 2011 compared to first half 2011 primarily due to the impact of regulatory changes partially offset by the inclusion of Sterling.
In addition we are not forecasting the same level of contribution from principal investing in warrants which is included in other noninterest income as we had in the first half of the year.
Excluding merger and restructuring charges we expect a high single-digit increase in noninterest expenses primarily due to the addition of Sterling.
We continue to expect total merger and restructuring charges of approximately $80 million after-tax with about $25 million after-tax recognized in each of the third and fourth quarters and the remainder recognized in 2012.
For the second half of 2011 income tax expense to approximate 36% of pretax income plus approximately $33 million in tax benefits.
In closing we believe we are well positioned for the future.
We expect to accelerate our growth in Texas with the pending Sterling bank acquisition.
Also we are seeing hopeful signs in Michigan and California such as increased loan demand for Middle Market Global Corporate and several Specialty businesses customers and prospects.
We have tight control of expenses and are less impacted by regulatory changes than many of our peers.
Our capital is strong and will support growth.
Now we will be happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brent Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
I wanted to first ask if you could talk a little bit about the interplay between the Sterling portfolio atrophy and in the growth of your organic portfolio.
Can you give us some color maybe around the net effects there? Yes.
As we look out through the balance of the year we continue to see good activity in our core Middle Market Corporate Banking Energy businesses that are here in the Texas market that overlap with the Sterling franchise.
We're going to continue to obviously work very closely post-closing with the Sterling portfolio.
There's a number of relationships that we think are there that we can continue to work with and expand and grow.
They obviously have a good-sized Commercial Real Estate book of business that we're going to continue to work with.
I think we've talked about the appropriate marks and strategy that we're going to work with in that -- with that Commercial Real Estate book of business.
That Commercial Real Estate portfolio will fold right in nicely to our strategy the way that we run at Comerica our Commercial Real Estate portfolios working closely with those customers.
And we'll just have to kind of see as we work forward with that portfolio how it plays out.
But it clearly was -- with the Sterling acquisition it gives us a much better position to grow in the Houston market.
The portfolio puts us nicely into San Antonio.
Kerrville gives us better presence here in Dallas.
So in an all-in basis we continue to see that we're going to be able to grow the loan portfolio as we head down the road here and feel really good about the bankers there at Sterling that are going to be joining us as part of the team to help us do that.
But does that portfolio net shrink minus the growth that you're seeing or opportunities that you're seeing just given some runoff that they're having? Yes.
There will clearly be some runoff.
And the Real Estate portfolio there will continue to run off but we've got a nice franchise kind of built around it.
We're going to be adding marketing resources our Specialty kind of products and Specialty groups.
We've got a nice Technology and Life Sciences group.
Here at Texas it's beginning to grow in terms of its presence as a technology center.
And clearly our Energy services group and all of their talented folks are going to continue to do I think take advantage of really a nice broader presence there.
So I think we're going to experience some nice mid single-digit increase in the loan portfolio as we look down the road.
So really what you're pointing out Lars is there will be some shrinkage in their portfolio due to coming into line with our metrics and portfolio.
But the opportunities that are there to move forward we think are very good.
And especially because of the recognition that Sterling will give us in the Houston market.
That Lars was talking about.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly I wanted to make sure I understood.
The comment around loan spreads and just the fact that you -- I think you indicated there were -- was no impact on loan spreads this quarter but you were seeing competitive pressures.
Can you clarify that please? If you look at over the last year we have not seen material impacts on loan spread compression but we are certainly seeing in activity with our people more competition.
And so to the extent that competition increases there could be some impact on spreads.
But we have really not seen it in any material way over the recent quarters.
But having said that the competitive environment has increased.
Our next question comes from Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.</strong> Just curious about your appetite interest for more transactions in Texas or outside Texas now that you're coming close to the closing -- Sterling.
Well as we've mentioned in the past our focus is for acquisitions in the future is Texas and California.
Sterling as we've mentioned was a very unique opportunity in the placement as Beth was talking about earlier in Houston San Antonio and Dallas as well and really puts our footprint where we would like to be from a future growth internal growth standpoint.
We will always look at opportunities as they come up but we will be very regimented about do they add in the right markets and in the right places for us because we feel very comfortable with our footprint now both in Texas and California.
Our next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore partners.
Along those capital lines can you talk a little bit more about further deployment via buyback or a dividend and how you're thinking about that post the integration here in Sterling? John that really hasn't changed from what we reiterated on the slides or frankly that we've been saying since January of this year.
That we will be -- our deployment strategy for this year is a payout of up to 50% either via dividends or share repurchases.
So a total payout between dividends and share repurchases of up to 50% full year earnings which will incorporate obviously Sterling in the last 5 months of the year.
But it hasn't -- it doesn't change our view of things in terms of that guidance that we reiterated today.
And when you think about it there is not a major impact on our Tier 1 ratios from the Sterling acquisition as I indicated even on a TCE basis tangible common equity basis we would be here around 10.5% so still very strong.
So that's our approach for this year.
And obviously as we go forward and get further clarity hopeful later this year or by the fourth quarter on a notice of proposed rulemaking on the capital side of things then we'll be evaluating it in that context.
And they're -- also are up for comment by the regulators capital planning for banks of our size as well.
But we will be interested in seeing how that develops.
So as we look into next year we'll have to take all that into consideration.
Okay.
So with Sterling closing later this month that still implies a pretty good tick up in buyback activity through the back half through the remaining months of this year.
So I just wanted to confirm the idea that we should see a pretty good acceleration of buyback pace? Yes.
What we indicated is we would be resuming share repurchases in the third quarter.
And obviously because of the lack of activity in the second quarter there will be increased activity in the second half.
Okay.
All right.
And then lastly on the margin can you talk about just given your guidance there what are you assuming in terms of excess liquidity and the opportunities to reinvest that there? Are you assuming anything around the bond portfolio? No significant changes in the bond portfolio.
We did have -- there's a slide in the appendix that shows when we -- when the Sterling merger is completed that we will have about an $8 billion investment portfolio about $6.5 billion kind of around our level with Comerica and about $1.5 billion with Sterling.
But that really is in essence adding the 2 together.
We still do expect excess liquidity to dissipate in the second half of the year with loan trends turning positive.
We just don't see the positive trends can continue as they have.
We also have $400 million of debt maturities in the third quarter.
So it is our expectation that it will go down but we're not expecting it to go down in a material way but it will be a positive contributor towards the core NIM of Comerica.
Okay.
And your Mortgage Warehouse is up this quarter in the loan book correct? It was up modestly.
It was $566 million on average in the first quarter and it was $614 million on average in the second quarter.
Our next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Looking at the loan growth guidance for the second half which is mid single-digit if I add Sterling that's around 5% loan growth so it doesn't look like you're factoring in any organic loan growth.
And when I look at Page 7 -- or Slide 7 you're seeing period and commercial x Dealer Floor Plan are up $1.1 billion pretty big increase.
You're saying the pipeline's up the commitments are committed up.
And with dealer finance coming back online in the second half of the year I don't understand why you don't see any organic loan growth in the second half of the year? Okay.
There are several things I can point out there Steve.
One is when you look at the guidance including Sterling you have to remember that one we're taking their loans on at fair value which their period-end loans were $2.4 billion but those will come onto us out at a 12% haircut which is $2.1 billion but that's the fair value.
The second is -- and remember they're not coming in for 6 months of the balance of the year.
It will only be 5 months.
So the math you have to adjust for that.
Related to core kind of underlying Comerica we did indicate that we expect dealer to also be down on average in the second -- third quarter compared to the second because we don't see really a turnaround in dealer coming until late in August September.
The rebound we really see coming in the fourth quarter and we will continue to see runoff in Commercial Real Estate.
Although as we indicated it feels like we're expecting that that decline will dissipate somewhat.
So when you factor all those in that's how we get to the guidance we gave.
It might help with the runoff in Commercial Real Estate should we look more for the period-end decline which was $123 million versus the average in terms of per quarter? Yes.
I think -- this is difficult to forecast with such precision in the sense that these can be lumpy because of financings that get taken out.
As you know we're not a long-term fixed rate mortgage lender for 30 years.
So to the extent there are opportunities for projects to be refinanced in the capital markets those things happen and they're not always predictable.
But we did feel good about the fact that the decline in period-end was less than the average.
And Lars I don't know if you have any color to add.
Yes -- no.
I think that that's on target.
We're going to continue to see some variability there as we see absorption of some of those assets into the permanent market and it is lumpy.
For example if you look at multi-family today cap rates in Southern Cal haven fallen to the 4 1/4% below 4% rate.
And there's wide variation in those cap rates between the markets so it's a localized thing.
We're going to see some variability there.
But I think in general there's going to be a slowing as we work through a lot of the issues that have been in the portfolio.
We've got some of the core developers in that portfolio that are survivors that are in really good position.
They have a lot of liquidity and we're excited about frankly some of the opportunities to begin to increase some new originations which were really focused mostly on multi-family and our large urban markets -- Class A markets.
Maybe just one follow-up on the margins looking at the loan yields is that 3.79 about or close to a bottom do you feel? Well if you can tell me what LIBOR is going to do? I think we were frankly surprised to see the decline is significant than it was in the second quarter.
And interestingly that really fell off from March to April and there are a lot of speculations around why that was.
But it was interesting to see so it fell off in April and then declined.
It has been kind of creeping lower.
It's stabilized and so far in July we'll have to see.
And our outlook for NIM did say that we expect -- or that we factored in that LIBOR rates would remain at these kinds of levels for the rest of the year.
So we're not expecting further decline in LIBOR which could impact the loan yields negatively if that were to happen.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I wanted to follow up on the pricing discussion.
Lars I was wondering if you could give us a regional look and perhaps also compare Middle Market and the large corporate in terms of the competitive pricing dynamics that you're observing? Because some other firms and some that compete in your footprint were getting much more negative data points on pricing or at least negative commentary on pricing.
Yes I know.
Erika that's a good question.
We're clearly seeing more pricing pressure I would say at the top kind of our segment kind of the lower corporate market so to speak highly-rated companies companies that have a lot of national kind of competition for them.
There is certainly more competition there.
We haven't seen that really impact us at this point.
And I would say that's kind of throughout our entire footprint Midwest the West and Texas.
In the Middle Market we continue to really hold our own there.
That's a really important market obviously for Comerica.
We've been in that business for a long long time.
One of the things that strikes me about the relationships we have there we have very deep cross sells.
And I think if you look at the balance sheet of Comerica we have a very high transaction account dollars which are really kind of a reflection largely of the deep relationships we have in the Middle Market.
And I think those deep relationships are serving us well.
They served us well as we went through the past cycle the recession and they're serving us well as we move forward.
Not that there's not going to be some competition out there but we're prepared to begin to continue to enhance kind of the amount of time that we're spending in the marketplace spending time with prospects and clients and taking advantage of growth in hopefully a growing national economy as we look forward.
And I just wanted to clarify your comments on Sterling.
Of the $2.1 billion in fair value loans that you're bringing on what is the dollar amount that you consider core? And your call for mid single-digit growth is that off of that core number that you're considering? Well the outlook incorporates an expectation related to where the $2.1 billion goes.
There are -- as Lars mentioned we will be working through some of the Commercial Real Estate.
We've seen -- Sterling had seen some decline there as well half of the year and we would expect some more.
But we're working very hard with Sterling to really maximize the Small business Middle Market space where we think we can come in.
The question is how quickly can we get that ramped up to partially offset some of these re-runoffs.
So those are all the dynamics we will be working through in a lot more detail once we own them.
Our next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
First just on the NIM guidance.
If the consolidated book is generating a NIM in the range of kind of 335 to 340 where your guidance in the second half what is the forecast for the legacy Comerica NIM kind of x Sterling relative to the 2Q run rate of 340.
We're just trying to see how that's trending? Yes.
If you look at the guidance we gave which was for the combined entity in the second half 335 to 340 and we indicated that of that 13 to 17 basis points relates to accretion through the purchase accounting.
So if you in essence back that out and call the midpoint of these ranges you're in the mid -- low to mid-320s in the core of the 2 together Sterling and Comerica.
And when you think about Sterling it's 10% of us so its impact on NIM even though they have a higher NIM is fairly small.
It's 2 or 3 basis points.
So the core underlying thing if you distill it down would be a 320 for us in the second half for Comerica alone.
Got it.
Very helpful there.
And second question just -- I'm trying to understand kind of the really aggressive build in excess liquidity here.
And it sounds like you're going to deploy some of that in the second half.
I'm just wondering is this just simply a function of strong deposit growth and waiting for loan balances to pick up? Or is it in any way related to a little bit of uncertainty with Regulation Q or Basel III liquidity requirements? No it's really an expectation that deposit flows will not continue at these levels and at some point will get used in company's businesses and that loan demand as we're seeing indications of that loan demand is coming back.
So in addition we don't believe it is probably a good idea to extend duration risk at a time when they're at 2 -- when yields start with the 2.
So it's all of those things together that make us comfortable with the combined Sterling Comerica investment portfolio but aid and work through the excess liquidity as deposit flows change and loan demand improves.
Our next question comes from Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Just I guess a question on expenses.
Obviously you've done a great job reducing headcount over the last several years.
But aside from Sterling -- and I saw your guidance there but aside from Sterling is there material room to further reduce expenses on the Comerica side or is it more a matter of sort of waiting for revenue to improve? I think at this point and as you mentioned we've been very diligent with our expenses over this total downturn.
We will continue to be diligent but I think your point about we're well positioned for the upturn is the appropriate position that we're in right now.
And I think Ken as things improve because we were very mindful of protecting the revenue-producing population within the employee base there is capacity that you can take on additional things without adding significant people.
And the efficiencies that we've put in place in those particular cases there won't be increases in expenses as revenue picks up.
So I think we're very well positioned for the turn as we are as Beth mentioned earlier in the margin where rates do improve.
And that will happen as the economy improves as well.
All right.
And then just briefly on credit.
Dale it looks like the NPA the reduction in the nonperformers was a little bit slower this quarter still coming down a bit -- if the decline slows does that have implications for the amount of reserve release you might expect going forward? I'm just trying to determine how much of your provision guidance is based on accelerating or even stable further reductions in your nonperforming assets.
Let me expand that a little bit to be a little more general on the provision.
We have a pretty rigorous methodology for determining what the reserve should be and what the provision should be.
The same one we've been using for 10 years and it served us well both in good times and in bad.
If you take a look at the provision just by itself it's already down to about 50 basis points of loans on an annualized basis so it is -- it's near not completely normal but near normal run rate levels.
Larger declines in provisions would be driven by larger declines in nonperforming loans and the reserves that go with them.
And our NPLs and reserves are showing steady improvement as you've noted.
Then we continue to use the strategy of using our workout group to alleviate the problem loans not having a fire sale in the marketplace so the increased recoveries this quarter reflect that kind of approach.
But as indicated by our guidance we do expect the provision to go down further as we look into the second half of the year and therefore we do not also expect nonperforming loans to decline as well.
So as long as the economy continues to improve on a steady pace even a bit lower than we'd like we expect to see improvement in nonperforming loans reserves and provision.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
I wonder if you could just update us on what the portfolio duration is on the -- in your securities portfolio? It's about 3.5 years.
3.5 years okay.
Great.
And then just one other question.
Have you guys been the subject of any class action lawsuits related to interchange at all? No not in my knowledge.
Our next question comes from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> I had a question on your loan pipelines.
Is that coming more from existing customers or is this coming from market share takeaway? Lars? Now we continue to see good strong pipelines growing in linked quarters which is good.
I would say that about 60% of that is from our existing customers but about 40% or so would be from new customers.
And if you look at our commitments to commit which is really our best future indicator of growth you'll see a very similar parallel in terms of some of those numbers.
But a number of our existing customers are in very good positions to do things and we've continued to have a strong pipeline now for several quarters.
But that commit -- commitments to commit is really the best indicator when we're getting closer to people actually having the confidence to make some investments.
But some of the pull-through will be I'm sure influenced by the national economy as we look forward so hopefully that answers your question.
Inc.</strong> It does.
And can you remind us again what a normal utilization rate is? I know it was up 1% this quarter.
Yes.
If you look at -- it was 45% this quarter.
If you look at over the last 9 years the average is about 47%.
And it ranges -- has ranged between 44% as a low back in '03 to 52% as a high which was in '08.
So we're still under the average over that last 9 years.
Our next question comes from Brian Foran with Nomura.
Can you -- I guess just more broadly on what's going on in auto.
When you look across your businesses when you say the Dealer Floor Plan balances were bouncing or start improving in August and September are you already seeing the improvement in the supply chain and it just takes that long for it to filter down to the dealers? Or have you not yet seen the improvement further upstream in terms of supply chain stuff? Yes Brian that's a good question.
We've been watching this closely.
We fortunately have a very select group of mega-dealers that we work with are pretty good proxy for that market kind of the blue-chip dealers.
And what we're hearing from them and we're talking to them on a consistent basis is that the Japanese nameplates are going to really start to roll in in August September.
And so we expect to see those volumes build as we go through the balance of the year.
You may have read recently that auto production in Japan is up over 90% now and so that bodes well.
I think in terms of the stickiness of the outstandings of the inventory it's going to be a little interesting to watch that because there's clearly going to be some pent-up demand I think in consumers for the Japanese nameplates so there'll probably be a quicker turn on the inventory initially.
But that's 40% of our book of business in dealer finance so we can have a substantial impact in terms of outstandings as we look towards the end of the year.
So we'll just have to kind of see how that plays out.
I think to support what Lars just said it was actually in the paper over the weekend that 2 of the largest manufacturers were talking about being back to full capacity in September.
Our next question comes from Peter Ganucheau with Carlson Capital.
Steve Alexopoulos hit on it a little bit.
Look I mean -- look as investors we want to see loan growth right? Because that can drive positive operating leverage.
And I hate to harp on one thing and just beat you on it.
But I'm here in Texas and I'm seeing stuff going on.
Your C&amp;I loans up nicely.
And again if I just take the math of taking Sterling's loans and tack it on to your average loans and I'm like Okay that's 5% 6% growth.
So it doesn't look like organically you've given us any growth there in the organic Comerica.
So how do I view that Ralph? I mean things are getting better in Michigan.
Things are good here in Texas.
Why aren't loans growing? Well I think as Lars said we are seeing growth.
And as we said in the numbers that the issue is when you look back over what's happened over the last number of months you had things begin to get better and then they slow back down.
And you see that off and on so I think as we project we're looking very cautiously as to when the economy is going to begin to get real traction and move up as is our customers.
When we talk to our customers and all the markets they're being very cautious as they invest for the future.
They're making good money.
And they're cautious though about what's happening.
I think as things calm down a little bit you will see that begin to pick up but it's when that happens is key...
Okay.
I heard cautious 4 or 5 times.
So would you say that leaves a little wiggle room? I would say that we're positioned well as things pick up.
Okay.
And another question Ralph.
I see -- let's call it a quasi[ph] Texas bank right trading at 1.1 of tangible.
You have the authorization on the buyback.
We're going to fire up Q3.
Do you look at your bank in that regard when you have hurdles for other potential actions of uses of capital? Do you say "Well no man.
I could do that one or I could just buy my own stock back since I've got almost 11% Tier 1 common and really reward the shareholders." How do you think about that? We look at all the options and what's best for the shareholders.
Our next question comes from Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
I think just one question.
One of the good sides of the stock price coming down is you're putting in a lot less goodwill.
Was the original estimated goodwill about $750 million and on Page 6 here it's fallen to about $514 million and with the stock price dropping down probably another $50 million? And I guess as I kind of crunch some numbers on a per-share basis has that goodwill gone from a little -- about $3.75 down to about $1.25 or $1.30 right now? Yes.
Well let me address the -- at the time of the January announcement we indicated at the price at that point that the goodwill will be about $745 million so your memory is right.
Today we showed in this slide using June 30 prices of $514 million.
So it will be settling in somewhere around there potentially.
It depends on what the stock price does between now and when we close the deal.
But that -- to your point the level of goodwill will be significantly less.
But the rest of the metrics that we talked about the deal accretion merger and restructuring charges and the expense synergies they're still very consistent with what we said in January.
So less than half the dilution to tangible book value as expected in January? Yes.
So it's down significantly.
So the $514 million we referenced today versus $745 million in January.
Okay.
And then just a question for John.
Just given the soft patch in the economy the weakness there any areas of loan portfolio we should be watching closely? Or are you watching a little bit more closely today? I've got to tell you I'm sleeping a lot better than I was 3 years ago.
As an opening comment I'm not losing any sleep these days.
And frankly I'm optimistic that we will continue to have low but positive economic growth.
What I worry about the most to be perfectly honest is that that economic growth will continue as opposed to the second quarter pause continuing.
But as long as it does continue to grow I'm feeling better about Commercial Real Estate than I was in the past.
There are charge-offs that have been down dramatically in the first 2 quarters this year.
Their NPA inflow is down dramatically in the first 2 quarters of this year.
As we look at the portfolio and the migration trends we think that's going to continue.
So given the fact that Commercial Real Estate is still the largest individual portion of nonaccruals that's still what I worry about the most after just the continued economic growth.
Our next question comes from Brian Klock with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Just a really quick follow-up.
On the commitments to commit Beth don't know if you can what was the percentage increase from the first quarter? Yes.
Let me just give you some numbers.
In the fourth quarter that number was $838 million.
In the first quarter it was $1.3 billion and in the second quarter it was $1.5 billion.
So it's been a nice run up.
And as you know Brian it's not always clear.
People put these commitments in place but it doesn't mean they're going to draw them the next month.
It could be the next quarter it could be 2 quarters.
So how this actually turns out in the loan outstandings but the fact that the pipeline is still strong and the fact that these commitments to commit have increased makes us hopeful that the signs we're seeing of particularly commercial loan growth will continue.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Is there any -- I guess looking at your commercial loan growth outside the Dealer Floor Plan it was pretty strong here in the second quarter.
So can we look at -- is there any sort of a capture of that increase first quarter versus fourth quarter and the commitments to commit and seeing that migrate into the draws and outstandings for the second quarter? Is there any sort of rule of thumb that we could use? Or like I said it's just hard to see when the timing of those commitments actually come across? Brian when we figure out that rule of thumb we'll let you know.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
And one maybe just a little housekeeping point here.
You talked about in the -- in your comments about the outlook for fee income saying that it doesn't include the same level of principal investing and warrants activity in the second half of the year.
Can you just remind us where that -- the revenue was in the first half of the year and in the third -- and the second quarter? Yes it was -- it show -- it manifests itself in other NII.
And the contribution from principal investing in warrants in each of the quarters first and second were $6 million a piece so $12 million in total for the first half.
And we also as you saw we also had auction rate security redemptions that produce $6 million in the first half of the year of gains whether those will continue in the second half we'll have to see.
Those are very driven by redemption activities that are very difficult to predict.
Our next question comes from Paul Miller with FBR.
It's actually Jessica Ribner for Paul.
Just a quick one on your deposits vis-a-vis loan growth.
If we're not seeing loan growth or if you're not seeing loan growth next quarter then do you have plans to limit or decrease your deposits like why continue taking them if you're just going to be paying out and not? No those are our customer deposits very important for the future.
And as was mentioned earlier I think by both Lars and Beth we will start to see those go down as we see loan growth began to ratchet up.
And a lot depends on where the economy is as we've mentioned as well on the call.
And as that begins to pick up that will be one of the things that we're watching.
As Beth mentioned you'll start to see those deposits in those particular business lines begin to decline as they leverage.
Okay so you don't really have plans to limit your deposit intake? No we will take care of our customers.
This is not wholesale.
And you can see very much in slides we've put out in the past that our costs of interest bearing -- our cost of deposits in total is very low compared to many of our peers so it's not like we're out there with high rates trying to attract deposits.
We are managing our deposits cost very closely.
That's right relationships.
Yes these are relationship-driven.
And there are no further questions in queue.
I will now turn the conference to Mr.
Ralph Babb for any further presentation.
Thank you.
And I want especially thank you all for joining us in the call today.
And we appreciate your continued interest in Comerica.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Brandy.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; CFO Beth Acton; Chief Credit Officer John Killian; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Karen Parkhill Vice Chairman.
A copy of the press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our third quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements and in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within the presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported third quarter net income of $98 million or $0.51 per share.
Impacting the quarter were merger and restructuring charges of $33 million which is $21 million after tax or $0.11 per share related to our acquisition of Sterling Bank shares which we completed on July 28.
Third quarter revenue was up 5% when compared to the second quarter reflecting our Sterling acquisition.
Turning to Slide 4 and highlights from the quarter.
The Sterling acquisition primarily drove our $2 billion increase in period-end loans in the third quarter.
Comerica legacy loans reflected increases in Texas as well as in commercial loans primarily Specialty Businesses including Mortgage Banker Energy and Technology and Life Sciences offset by decreases in National Dealer Services Global Corporate Banking and Small Business Banking.
Specialty Businesses along with Sterling were the primary contributors to the $1.1 billion increase in period-end commercial loans in the third quarter.
Comerica legacy commercial loans increased $668 million or 3%.
In our Texas market Comerica legacy period-end total loans increased $113 million or 2%.
Our average core deposits were up $3.5 billion with increases in all major markets led by Texas which reflected average Sterling core deposits of $2.5 billion.
The net interest margin increased 4 basis points to 3.18% primarily from the acquisition of the Sterling Loan portfolio partially offset by the impact from higher excess liquidity.
Noninterest income was stable with core operating fees up modestly including the contribution from 2 months of Sterling.
Noninterest expense increased $51 million to $460 million including $18 million from Sterling operations and the previously mentioned $33 million of merger and restructuring charges related to the Sterling acquisition.
We continue to be pleased with our broad-based steady improvement in credit quality.
This was the ninth consecutive quarter of decline in net charge-offs with a $13 million decrease.
Internal watch list loans and nonperforming loans continue to trend downward for both Comerica legacy loans and the Sterling Loan portfolio.
We continue to see reductions in inflows to nonaccrual loans and positive migration in other credit metrics.
Our customers generally are in a stronger position today with higher liquidity lower leverage and increased efficiency.
These positive attributes will assist them in whatever economic scenario emerges in the coming months.
As a result of the overall improvements in credit quality we have seen the provision for loan losses declined to $38 million.
Our post-acquisition capital remained strong as evidenced by our Tier 1 capital -- common capital ratio of 10.57%.
We repurchased 2.1 million shares in the third quarter and expect to continue to be an active repurchaser of shares for the balance of 2011.
Turning to Slide 5 and our acquisition of Sterling.
Systems integrations are on track and expected to be completed by year-end.
We have been in ongoing communication with Sterling customers throughout this transition process and look forward to officially welcoming them to the Comerica customer platform.
Sterling's size geographic footprint and customer focus uniquely fits our strategy and expands our growth in Texas.
As we have mentioned previously Sterling's solid deposit base and well-located branch network virtually triples our Houston market share provides us entry into the attractive San Antonio region and complements our existing footprint in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
We are dedicated to ensuring we deliver the revenue synergies that we anticipate from the Sterling acquisition.
These include treasury management wealth management trade services and derivative products.
For 2012 excluding the impact of regulatory reform and the completed sale of Sterling's investment advisory business we expect about a 15% lift in Sterling's noninterest income.
This equates to about $4 million.
We believe these synergies will accelerate in 2013 and beyond.
In addition we believe there are opportunities to accelerate loan growth with our Specialty Businesses and at the lower end of the middle market.
This could add about 10% or $200 million to their loan portfolio and accelerate in future years.
In summary the Sterling acquisition provides an exceptional growth opportunity in one of the most attractive markets in the U.S.
Texas is a growth leader for the U.S.
economy with strong high-tech and energy sectors and strong demographic growth.
Our Texas economic activity index indicates the state economy is holding steady although lower energy prices could impact the energy sector in the months ahead.
Texas is expected to outperform the national economy again this year.
The Michigan economy received a boost from increased automobile production in July as supply-chain constraints eased.
Sales for the 3 Detroit automakers held up in August and September despite the severe drop in consumer confidence that we saw at the end of the summer.
Lower gasoline prices and ample pent-up demand are also positives for the auto sector and Michigan.
The California economy continues to struggle for traction.
Consumer spending remains fundamentally constrained by a weak housing market.
Silicon Valley remains a bright spot for the state economy but some high-tech industries are vulnerable to cooler markets.
With the uncertain national and global economies we have heightened our focus on revenue-generating initiatives and expense controls.
Beth will go into more detail but in addition to delivering the revenue and expense synergies from the Sterling acquisition we plan to reallocate resources to faster-growing businesses leverage opportunities to lower deposit pricing and continue to utilize technology to produce efficiencies among many other action items.
By continuing to strengthen our franchise we believe we will be able to drive growth in this challenging economic environment.
Before turning the call over to Beth I want to remind you that Karen Parkhill is here as well.
As you may know Karen joined us on August 8 as a Vice Chairman.
Initially she has assumed administrative responsibilities for the service company corporate planning and development and corporate compliance and financial intelligence.
Following the filing of our Form 10-Q for the third quarter 2011 and as previously announced it is anticipated that Karen will assume the additional role of Chief Financial Officer succeeding Beth who plans to retire in April 2012.
As CFO Karen will assume reporting for fourth quarter 2011 results and for all financial reporting thereafter.
A special thanks to Beth for all her contributions over the years.
And now I'll turn the call over to Beth.
Thanks Ralph.
Good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6.
Total period-end loans at September 30 of $41.2 billion increased $2 billion from June 30 primarily due to the addition of Sterling.
Loan growth in Texas accelerated in the third quarter with the acquisition of Sterling.
Legacy Comerica Texas loans increased for the fourth consecutive quarter by $113 million or 2%.
Commercial loans increased $1.1 billion at period end with $393 million due to the addition of Sterling and Comerica legacy loan growth of 3% or $668 million.
This primarily reflected a $1 billion increase in the Specialty Businesses including Mortgage Banker Energy Technology and Life Sciences and Entertainment.
As anticipated average outstandings in National Dealer Services were down $488 million and down $290 million at period end.
This was a result of supply-chain disruptions related to the Japanese earthquakes.
We expect Dealer inventories and loan outstandings will grow in the fourth quarter.
As we predicted the pace of decline in Comerica legacy commercial real estate slowed in the third quarter.
Total average loans increased $924 million to $40.1 billion in the third quarter reflecting 2 months of Sterling.
Line utilization for the Comerica legacy portfolio was up almost 1 percentage point to 45.5% as the increase in outstandings was greater than the increase in commitments.
In line with the growth in outstandings increased commitments were noted in the Specialty Businesses.
Our loan pipelines increased in the third quarter.
Commitments to commit which is the last stage in the pipeline before the dealers booked increased nicely for the third quarter in a row across almost all business lines.
Slide 7 shows average loan growth in selected portfolios.
Mortgage Banker outstanding increased 50% in the third quarter.
Lower mortgage rates and industry-wide volume constraints as well as recent market share gains have been the drivers behind Mortgage Banker outstandings.
We believe outstandings will moderate somewhat as mortgage rates stabilize.
Average loans increased again in the third quarter in Global Corporate Banking in all major markets.
Energy increased $179 million in the third quarter.
The pace of loan growth picked up in Technology and Life Sciences with a $129 million increase in average loans recorded in the third quarter.
As shown on Slide 8 core deposit growth continued to be strong in the third quarter.
Average core deposits increased $3.5 billion compared to second quarter reflecting a $1.7 billion increase in noninterest-bearing and $1.8 billion increase in interest-bearing deposits.
Sterling provided $2.5 billion of the total increase in average core deposits.
Increased average core deposits were noted in all major geographic markets.
By line of business strong growth was reported in almost all lines of business particularly Global Corporate Banking Financial Services division Small Business and Wealth Management.
The FDIC recently released their annual deposit market share report which shows -- showed Comerica's market share in Texas and Michigan increased as of June 30.
We believe this increase reflects our relationship banking focus backed by the prudent yet competitive rates we offer.
Slide 9 provides an update on our investment securities portfolio.
Excluding auction rate securities the investment portfolio consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities or MBS and totaled $9.3 billion at September 30 a $2.4 billion increase from the prior period.
The acquisition of Sterling added $1.5 billion and this portfolio has been repositioned to look more similar to Comerica's portfolio.
This resulted in securities gains of $11 million in the quarter.
In addition in order to reduce excess liquidity and enhance revenue we purchased an incremental $1 billion in mortgage-backed securities which settled September 30.
These securities have a controlled duration and have a higher yield than we were earning on deposits at the federal reserve.
Our target is to maintain an MBS portfolio of approximately $9 billion.
Thus we will continue to reinvest the proceeds from prepayments.
As outlined on Slide 10 the net interest margin of 3.18% increased 4 basis points compared to the second quarter.
Accretion of the purchase discount on the acquired Sterling loan portfolio increased the net interest margin by 20 basis points.
This was partially offset by an increase in excess liquidity which had an 8 basis point impact as well as a 6 basis point impact from the accelerated premium amortization due to increased prepayment activity on the MBS portfolio.
Average excess liquidity which was represented by deposits held at the Federal Reserve increased $1.4 billion to $4.8 billion.
The increase was due to primarily due to very strong deposit growth.
Loan yields were modestly higher reflecting the purchase accounting accretion from the Sterling portfolio.
We have not seen any material loan spread compression.
However we are seeing increased competition for customers as liquidity in the banking system continues to increase.
Our balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates as 80% of our loans are floating rate of which 70% are LIBOR-based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
As loans represents 75% of our earning assets our interest rate sensitivity is primarily at the short end of the curve.
Our net interest margin in the third quarter was lower than we had forecasted in July due to much higher excess liquidity.
In addition Operation Twist announced by the Federal Reserve to lower longer-term rates affected our securities portfolio which is a relatively smaller portion of our earning assets.
Slide 11 provides our expectations for the net interest margin for the fourth quarter and an early sense for next year.
Overall we expect the net interest margin to remain relatively stable for the near term.
For the fourth quarter we expect the net interest margin to be about 3.15%.
This reflects the benefit from a larger MBS portfolio lower excess liquidity as a result of the September 30 settlement of the $1 billion in MBS and one additional month of higher-yielding Sterling loans.
This is expected to be offset by a reduction in the accretion of the purchase discount on the acquired Sterling loan portfolio and lower reinvestment rates on the MBS portfolio.
Our outlook assumes LIBOR remaining at the current level which is a few basis points higher than the average for the third quarter.
Based on an early look at next year we expect the full year 2012 margin to be relatively stable compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 assuming modest loan growth.
Remember we have already largely absorbed the impact of lower rates due to our predominance of floating rate assets.
We believe we are being conservative in our other assumptions including MBS reinvestment rates at today's levels no material change in the amount of excess liquidity and loan pricing in a competitive environment.
Turning to Slide 12.
Noninterest expenses totaled $460 million in the third quarter an increase of $51 million.
The increase primarily reflected an increase in merger and restructuring charges of $28 million which was in line with our expectations and $18 million of noninterest expense from Sterling operations.
Merger and restructuring charges including cost related to the terminations of certain existing Sterling leases and other contracts systems integration and related charges as well as estimated severance and other employee-related charges.
As the chart on this slide illustrates we have consistently reduced our workforce excluding Sterling legacy employees over the past several years.
At the same time we believe preserving customer-facing positions to maintain consistency in the customer experience is highly valued.
Comerica legacy full-time equivalent staff has decreased by approximately 17% since 2007 as we responded to the economic environment and as part of our continued efforts to leverage technology and maximize productivity.
We have recently heightened our focus on expense management which I will discuss further in a moment.
Our credit metrics are outlined on Slide 13.
We continue to see steady improvement in credit trends in the third quarter.
Net credit-related charge-offs decreased $13 million to $77 million and reflected an $18 million decrease in Middle Market partially offset by an $8 million increase in Commercial Real Estate.
Watch list loans and nonperforming loans continued to trend downward for both Comerica legacy loans and the acquired Sterling loan portfolio.
Comerica legacy watch list loans decreased $263 million to $4.6 billion at September 30.
Nonperforming assets increased modestly reflecting the addition of $24 million in foreclosed property from Sterling.
During the third quarter $130 million of borrower relationships greater than $2 million were transferred to nonaccrual status a decrease of $20 million from the second quarter.
Of these transfers to nonaccrual $63 million were from Middle Market primarily in the Western and Midwest markets and $48 million were from the Commercial Real Estate business line primarily in the Western market.
The allowance for loan losses to total loans was 1.86%.
The decrease in the ratio from the prior quarter primarily reflected the impact of the Sterling loans recorded at fair value at acquisition without a corresponding allowance for loan losses.
The remaining fair value discounts on Sterling acquired loans was $236 million at September 30.
As a result of the overall continued improvement in credit quality the provision for loan losses declined to $38 million.
Turning to capital on Slide 14.
Our capital position continues to be strong and the quality of our capital is among the best in our peer group.
The acquisition of Sterling had only a minor impact on our Tier 1 Common ratio.
Earlier this year we commenced our share repurchase program buying back 400 000 shares in the first quarter.
We did not repurchase any shares in the second quarter due to the pending acquisition of Sterling.
We significantly increased our repurchases in the third quarter and repurchased 2.1 million shares.
We continue to target an annual earnings payout ratio including dividends and share repurchases of up to 50% of full year 2011 earnings.
The Federal Reserve published in June a proposal requiring banks with assets of $50 billion or more to submit annual capital plans.
The comment period has ended and we would expect some direction on this proposal in the fourth quarter.
We will be prepared if this proposal most forward and believe we are approaching capital management from a position of strength.
With the uncertain economic environment we have heightened our focus on revenue-generating initiatives and controlling expenses.
Slide 15 outlines some of the challenges we are working to more than offset.
These include the impact of regulatory changes such as new FDIC overdraft guidelines and lower interchange fees as well as rising employee healthcare and pension expenses.
We are in the process of implementing about 250 revenue enhancement and expense reduction projects.
About 2/3 of these projects are related to expense initiatives and 1/3 revenue opportunities.
Our current estimate is this will result in at least $100 million in annual profit improvement in 2012.
On the revenue front opportunities include reallocating resource to faster-growing businesses as well as closely reviewing pricing of all fee-based products and rates on deposits.
Also renewed emphasis has been placed on cross-sell referral opportunities and of course we are dedicated to ensuring we deliver the revenue synergies that we anticipate from the Sterling acquisition.
Turning to the expense management side of the equation.
Over the past several years and particularly since the beginning of the past recession we have undertaken a variety of measures to control our cost and promote efficiencies.
The efforts have ranged from the consolidation and renegotiation of certain vendor relationships to the streamlining of our various operational processes to the selective outsourcing of noncore operational and technological functions.
Using these same techniques and others we believe that we can further reduce expenses while still providing ample opportunities to invest in growth businesses that will power our future.
We have already taken action on a couple of balance sheet items.
As I mentioned earlier we have invested $1 billion of excess liquidity in higher-yielding MBS.
Also in order to reduce interest expense and excess liquidity we proactively repaid about $80 million of Sterling's senior debt.
Additionally we've announced the future redemption of about $31 million in Sterling troughs and expect to redeem an additional $24 million in Sterling troughs in the near future.
Slide 16 provides our outlook for the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter.
Recall that Sterling results were included for only 2 months in the third quarter.
Average total loans are expected to increase by low-single digit partially reflecting the impact of one additional month of Sterling.
Period-end loans are expected to be relatively stable.
As I mentioned earlier loans in the National Dealer Services business line are expected to grow Mortgage Banker Loan growth is expected to moderate and loans in the Commercial Real Estate business line are expected to continue to decrease.
Average earning assets are expected to be approximately $54.5 billion reflecting increases primarily related to Sterling in average loans and MBS.
I already covered our outlook for the margin.
We expect net credit related charge-offs of $65 million to $75 million and the provision for credit losses is expected to trend modestly lower from the third quarter.
We expect a mid-single digit decline in noninterest income primarily due to the regulatory impact on interchange fees and no further significant securities gains.
This will be partially offset by one additional month of Sterling.
Excluding merger and restructuring charges of approximately $25 million after-tax or $40 million pretax we expect a low- to mid-single digit increase in noninterest expenses primarily due to one additional month of Sterling expenses in the fourth quarter.
In closing we believe our geographic footprint is well situated.
With the acquisition of Sterling Bank we are accelerating our growth in Texas.
We are confident we are well positioned for future growth with a strong relationship focus and with the right people products and services in place.
This is my last earnings conference call.
As Ralph mentioned Karen will be assuming the role of CFO after we file this quarter's 10-Q.
It's been a pleasure working with you over the past 10 years and I wish you all the best.
Now we're happy to answer questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to first maybe get a little clarification on just the loans in the fourth -- in the third quarter in terms of Sterling and Comerica legacy.
I know that Sterling ended 2Q with about $2.3 billion and you added $2 billion of loans during the quarter.
Can you talk about maybe the Sterling portfolio during 3Q and then the outlook for that going forward in terms of the guidance for loans to be flat in 4Q? Yes I can speak to part of it.
Lars may have some additional things.
When you think about it you mentioned the number of $2.3 billion.
Remember we had a mark.
These loans were marked 12% before they came on to our balance sheet.
So at that time we were estimating about $2.1 billion.
We've seen a little runoff not surprising particularly on real estate.
And so the $2 billion number that we show on Slide 6 $2.009 billion was what was added at September 30 -- or what was existing for Sterling at September 30.
So the $2.3 billion you mentioned is pre the mark.
They came on the balance sheet at the end of July at $2.1 billion.
And then in terms of future opportunities I'll let Lars speak to that.
Yes.
Obviously there's a little bit over $1 billion of Commercial Real Estate that's in that portfolio.
We've already integrated some of the leadership and management of the Commercial Real Estate customers in our line of business and that is really going well.
There's actually some good developers some good customers in there that we're looking forward to working with.
But the Commercial Real Estate portfolio overall as we look forward will probably have some runoff in it as we kind of integrate it into our portfolio and our underwriting but there's some really good customers in there.
They -- the balance of it is -- looks like some good C&amp;I opportunity for us but Small Business and a little bit of Middle Market.
And it's really kind of gratifying to see already that as we look at where the majority of those loans are centered is in the Houston kind of metro area we're really seeing a lot of lift.
In fact the market today Houston is our #1 growth market for both Middle Market and Small Business for our company.
I think part of that is the legacy franchise we have there but part of it clearly is the result of the Sterling merger and some of the resources that we picked up.
We just have a really a broader franchise there.
We are more broadly seen kind of viewed in the community a better distribution.
So I think that really bodes well for us.
But the driver -- part of that driver will be the Commercial Real Estate portfolio and the runoff in that.
So we'll just have to see how that kind of plays out but it looks good at this point.
And as Ralph mentioned we also are expecting as we look into next year about a 10% lift from that portfolio in the sectors that really Sterling has not been so much whether it's some of our Specialty Businesses or certainly in the lower-end Middle Market.
Yes I mean you can talk about all of the other things we're bringing to the market and there's -- all of our lines of business that we're bringing to Houston we're expanding and to San Antonio that I think are pretty attractive.
But also our products and services much broader array there.
So I could spend a lot of time talking about those but I'm very encouraged about our opportunities there.
Research Division</strong> Okay I -- well I was going to say I guess in thinking of the 4Q guidance I'm a little surprised to hear kind of the flattish guidance with all that said and the dealer book being up can you give us some clarity maybe around Commercial Real Estate? How much more shrinkage to go do we have there as the construction book completely run off or can you provide a little more guidance around the flattish comment? Yes.
The --  we do see Dealer growing but it will take some time to get that certainly at a higher level.
Mortgage Banker given how quickly it rose in the third quarter and given kind of where we've seen recently mortgage rates rise somewhat that we'll see some moderation in the growth of Mortgage Banker in the fourth quarter.
And Commercial Real Estate I think the runoff should be in the fourth quarter should look fairly similar to the third quarter.
But that's difficult to make assessments.
Those come in chunkier pieces and so at least that's our estimate at the moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Beth since I know how much you're going to miss margin questions in your retirement let me start there.
In terms of the guidance for the stable margin in 2012 versus the 4Q level do you see the securities yield is holding relatively stable for the year or are there offsets here? Like do you plan on investing more cash? Just wondering what the offsets are in this guidance for stable NIM in '12.
Yes.
One of the things we've talked about is assuming modest loan growth doesn't have to be a lot but any loan growth that replaces excess liquidity is powerful in terms of the NIM.
We do expect and have modeled in our outlook for next year that there will be a negative related to securities.
Because we have a $9 billion portfolio we'll have significant cash flows every quarter that will be -- we're assuming will be reinvesting at rates below 2%.
And so we will see -- again we think that's a conservative assumption.
But that will cause over time the average yield on the portfolio next year to decline but we have incorporated that into our margin outlook.
So -- and there's some minor changes on excess liquidity.
And so in the end it's a pretty flattish looking situation to us.
We think we still have deposits -- a little more to go on the deposit cost side more down.
And we're also assuming it's a pretty competitive loan [ph] pricing situation.
So I think those are pretty conservative assumptions.
And at this stage as I mentioned earlier it is an early look at next year.
And that's really with a stable economy out there too as well.
So if the economy picks up then too we would pick up along with that which Beth has built into our numbers.
Research Division</strong> And then on the buyback would you say you're targeting 50% of earnings with the dividend buyback? Are you looking at reported earnings which would include merger costs? And then how you're thinking about this target for 2012.
Similar 50%? We -- the 2011 earnings includes everything.
It's reported earnings in terms of our 50% payout.
As related to 2012 as I mentioned on the call it could be that banks our size based on the proposal the Fed has put out there that $50 billion-plus banks will be part of the really the CCAR process and therefore would be submitting capital plans as per this proposal in early January with an acknowledgment of the plan by mid-March.
So we're into a little new ballgame it appears.
We will I believe we will know more in the fourth quarter because if we are going to participate in the similar processes this top 19 banks then we will have to know something soon.
So it's really difficult to comment on looking forward until we put that plan forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the $100 million in annual profit improvement that you're targeting.
Could you give us a sense of how much your efficiency efforts will contribute to that $100 million swing? Yes.
What we have said is about 2/3 of the $100 million is expense related and 1/3 is revenue related.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry if I missed that.
Okay and I guess importantly given that you're not part of the formal CCAR process and given what seems to be a sub-optimal interest rate environment over the next 12 months I guess what do you have to see or what do you think you have to see in the underlying economic environment to perhaps target more than 50% payout? Erika you had mentioned that -- I just commented that we -- it appears based on a proposal the Fed has put forward that $50 billion-plus banks will be part of a CCAR process whether it's the same process that the 19 go through is not clear.
But the timing at least based on the proposal appears to be similar to the top 19 banks.
So a submission of an annual capital plan in early January with a comeback to give us their views formally by mid-March.
So at this juncture I really can't amplify on our plans for '12.
We will be going if we have to go through that process we will be doing that.
Obviously we're coming from capital from a position of strength and understand interest of shareholders and take all -- and looking at balance sheet growth et cetera as we move forward with that capital plan that we would potentially need to submit in early January.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'm sorry if you had to repeat things to me.
We're sort of dealing with multiple things.
And just one more and I promise Beth for your retirement present it won't be about -- actually it won't be about margin.
But in terms of extracting revenue synergies from cross-sell with regards to Sterling I guess perhaps Lars could comment on this.
How much more training do you think the legacy Sterling commercial bankers need in order to do that? Or do you think they have a sort of the right culture in place to be able to be set up to meet that goal in 2012? Yes Erika that -- a good point.
I'll tell you just to start at the end of your question.
And that is are they kind of prepared the franchisers today.
If you think about Sterling it really was kind of a business bank.
That was their orientation that's kind of what they did.
And so a lot of the bankers there are really kind of already culturally focused on relationships relationship building looking for broader opportunities to deliver more products and services which we bring obviously to the table for them in spades.
Whether it's in trade finance or it's in wealth management private banking which I think is a tremendous opportunity for us we have obviously a nice array of products and services in our risk management area whether it's FX whether it's Energy which for Houston obviously is right across the plate interest rate risk management.
There's a number of products and services.
Our commercial card merchant services like I mentioned earlier I could kind of go on and on.
And honestly the bankers there are very excited about us bringing those products and services to the market.
We've already gone very far down the road in terms of training the bankers.
So we're talking about the conversion here at the end of the year but we're really not waiting for the end of the year to push the accelerator here and to look for opportunities.
As I mentioned before the Houston metro area is now our leading Middle Market and Small Business area and part of that is because of the products and services we're beginning to some really good bankers that understand what we do.
It's a relationship banking model.
So Erika it really looks promising for us as we look forward.
I would underline what Lars has said.
The integration process is going extremely well and the excitement on both sides and having Downey there in the Houston market today is really already showing the kind of things that we wanted from the integration.
It's moving along quite well.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> On your -- just curious what were kind of the average gross yield of new funded originations this quarter? I know it's kind of a meatball.
I know you've got a lot of different types of products.
But I mean can you give us kind of a ballpark? Is it 3%? Is it 4.5%? I'm just -- where is that relative to the current loan book yield? We have -- as we indicated in the comments we haven't seen material loan spread compression.
We do see things -- we are seeing for instance as an example we had $1 billion of fixed-rate loans mature over the course of the quarter which has obviously an impact on margin in terms of loan yields.
But we really haven't seen a material change.
We still have much nicer loan spreads today than we had 3 years ago.
And while business is getting renewed and there is more competition particularly at the high-end large corporate very creditworthy high creditworthy we're still holding spreads pretty well in Middle Market in Small Business and some of the other sectors.
But having said that there's a lot of liquidity out there in the banking system and frankly inherent in our outlook for next year is that we're going to see more competition and potentially an impact on spread.
But we haven't seen a material impact at this point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess I have to do the back-of-envelope math but implied in your NIM guidance I mean should you be able to grow net interest income dollars from say the fourth quarter annualized rate in 2012? I mean is that what's embedded in your assumption? The main -- one of the important things I -- point I made earlier is that the relatively stable margin in '12 assumes modest loan growth.
So that's an important element because as I mentioned replacing 25 basis point deposits with the Fed with loans is a very powerful thing for NIM.
So to the extent loan growth is better as Ralph had mentioned than we expect which is very modest at this point that would be a positive for the margin.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Sorry one last question.
Just on capital management to beat a dead horse.
If your stock's still trading at 80 -- call it 80% of tangible book you've got a 10.5% capital level even if you sat here and said maybe 9.5% who knows what's the final number target number is I mean would it be your intention to potentially try and return more than the 50%? I mean is that something you should contemplate in your capital plan that you'll submit in January to buy back more shares? I think we have approached capital from a cautious vantage point up till now because there has been -- there has not been clarity on the final capital rules.
While I believe the process for us will be clarified in the fourth quarter I don't -- my expectation is we will not see the Basel rules translated into U.S.
regulations until the first quarter of next year.
So that's an unknown that we feel like as I mentioned earlier we're approaching this from a position of strength but we also would like to kind of know what the level is and what the consequences of thinking about being in the buffer not in the buffer is the buffer really a buffer and what the consequences of all those things are.
So I think before we become much more aggressive we would want to feel comfortable with those capital rules.
Your next question comes from line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Beth in the stable margin outlook that you provided can you talk a little bit about what your assumptions are for the growth in the Commercial Lending segment and the Large Corporate segment? I know you talked about the floor plan and Mortgage Banker segment but can you talk more specifically about the Commercial lines? All right are you talking about in the fourth quarter? Research Division</strong> Yes and then also going into 2012 particularly based on your stable margin assumptions.
Yes.
We do highlight the ones Mortgage Banker Dealer Commercial Real Estate because those are ones that have had some variability to them.
Right now if you look at the third quarter Middle Market was kind of flat.
Small Business is still struggling a bit.
In fact actually we're seeing more production in Small Business than we did a year ago more originations have happened this year than last year.
But we're seeing as term loans mature they're paying them off because they're not investing in additional plant capacity or machinery and equipment those kind of things.
They're being cautious.
So those are things that are not providing as much lift as in a weak weaker environment which is not surprising.
But we're very pleased at the growth we've seen in our Specialty Business at TLS Energy certainly Mortgage Banker has its ups and downs.
Dealer is coming back.
I mentioned Entertainment I think.
So we're very pleased with those and then adding Sterling to it will be helpful as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess I was just getting more so to your outlook for the Commercial-specific segments.
I know you mentioned in that stable margin outlook for 2012 you expect modest loan growth.
Do you expect a lot of that growth to come from Specialty and Energy and others or do you expect a good lift coming from the Commercial-specific segments? I think it would be a combination of not just the Specialty Business but core Middle Market is 1/3 of our loan portfolio so if we can get through kind of the soft patch we're going through now I think we'll begin to see Middle Market certainly propel itself probably sooner than Small Business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question is just around the securities portfolio.
Can you give us what is the monthly cash flows you have coming off the securities book? And in terms of your reinvestment opportunities what duration are you looking at in terms of new investments? The cash flows we're expecting about $900 million of cash flows in the fourth quarter and about $700 million to $800 million a quarter next year.
And remember that's on a bigger portfolio so that's on a $9 billion portfolio.
If you look at the kind of duration of things we've bought which is close to 3 years the overall duration of the portfolio was 2.7 years at September 30.
So that's kind of the duration we would probably keep looking into next year.
And opportunities there depending on whether you're into CMOs or into pass-throughs can be anywhere from today from the 180s to the 240s.
We are being cautious in the outlook we are giving and saying it's below 2% is where we're going to be reinvesting all those cash flows over the next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess on a year-to-date basis I think a lot of investors feel like your loan growth has underperformed peers even especially adjusted for business mix.
I know you've kind of addressed each of the moving parts but I'm sure you get the question a lot.
So when people say to you "Hey it seems like you're losing market share and your loan growth is underperforming others " how should we think about that because I know there are a lot of puts and takes? Lars you want to talk about that? Yes.
I can't really speak to the overall kind of what the market is saying about.
I can tell you from where we sit when you said looking back over this year we've had really nice Middle Market growth in particular here in Texas.
It's been a really good growth market for us and we expect it to continue to be a nice growth market for us.
Our Global Corporate Banking business has grown very nicely this year.
Obviously Commercial Real Estate as we have shared with everybody would continue to have some runoff in that portfolio but that runoff has slowed.
Clearly as we shared in the past it's lumpy in terms of the runoff but it has slowed which we think is a good sign.
We've had a lot more new originations in there and we think at some point the lines will cross and that will begin to grow once we have fundings under some of our new construction facilities that are really focused mostly on multifamily kind of in-footprint so that will be good.
But think back to the first quarter and the second quarter where you did have both the impact of mortgage and dealer which are large businesses for us and had a significant impact on our outstandings.
Now you look back at Mortgage Banker Finance that's up 50% in one quarter so we're getting some lift out of that.
We expect dealer to grow here in the fourth quarter.
And as we look across the rest of our Specialty Businesses as we mentioned earlier Brian frankly they are very well positioned.
I mean just take Energy for example.
That business has been growing throughout the year.
I feel very comfortable with our market share in Energy.
I feel like we're working with just the right kinds of customers have the right risk profile and are well positioned.
And I think that's an industry that's going to continue to be expanding.
It's going to be a long cycle I think and one that we're going to be a player in.
But if you look at Technology and Life Sciences we have very large market shares there.
We expect that that's going to continue to grow and that's done very well.
If you look at our Environmental Services Entertainment very well positioned.
And remember these are not businesses that you get into overnight.
These are businesses that you have to build over many many years.
So I can't speak to the market share issue but I will tell you that we've had in a number of these businesses some very nice growth.
We expect to have nice growth in the future and we see ourselves as very well positioned.
So anyway hope that helps you a little bit Brian.
Lars you might want to comment that you -- as far as existing customers continue and pick up of new customers as well as we are very focused on making sure that we institute lending under our terms looking forward and that's paid off very well for us through the downturn.
And it's very important to us to build relationships over time.
Yes.
No I think that's a good point Ralph.
It is a very very competitive market Brian.
And there's a lot of growth available to banks out there today if you're willing to price it and structure it properly.
But you have to remember who we are and how we've positioned ourselves from a credit perspective and from a client perspective we performed better throughout the cycle and we've positioned ourselves for the long-haul.
Our customers view us as a very reliable stable source of financial advice and capital.
And that's the way that we want to position ourselves for the future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one follow-up on the mortgage and auto dealer floor plan because there's been some big swinging parts.
It seems like over the past few years mortgage has been anywhere from $500 million to $1.3 billion.
It seems like auto dealer floor plan has been anywhere from $3 billion now to as high as $5 billion back in '08.
Do you have a sense just of a best guess of a normalized level? Obviously mortgage is going to come down auto is going to go up.
I'm just trying to figure out are the 2 of them basically a wash or is one going to go down more than the other goes up or vice versa? Hard to know.
It is very difficult to predict particularly on the Mortgage Banker business but -- and industry volumes on the auto side are going to take some time to get back to the levels when it was a $5-billion business.
We're talking about $13 million SARs instead of what were $16 million SARs.
Research Division</strong> I guess maybe another way to think about it is is there anything that you've done to either structurally grow or shrink either business geographically or customer-wise or is it just the outlook for refi volume and the outlook for dealer inventories that's going to move the balances? In fact we're garnering market share in the Mortgage Banker business.
We have picked up new customers.
Yes there's been a change in kind of the mortgage market there and I think our reliability through the cycle has been -- is well viewed by that market.
And we have -- part of the growth that we've had clearly is from market share growth.
But we do expect the dealer business to come back.
Exactly pegging where that's going to be is hard to tell but there will be growth there.
The economy is the big unknown there.
Yes that's right.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Talking a little bit about the accretable yield that you guys gave guidance to go from $27 million to $15 million to $20 million in the fourth quarter.
How long should we model this accretable yield in and how much decay should we go? Is it going to be relevant through 2012 also? Oh yes it will be.
And we will -- we gave you the outlook for the fourth quarter of $15 million to $20 million down from $27 million.
We will be giving an outlook on that in January when we give our outlook for 2012.
So we will be giving you more details but it'll still be an important contributor certainly in '12.
Research Division</strong> And how long is the I guess the amortization schedule supposed to take place? Is it a 3- to 4-year issue or a 5- to 7-year or so? It could be up to 5 years.
The bulk of the accretion will come in the first 1 to 3 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so this -- and it's a pretty big decay from this quarter to next quarter but I don't expect that decay to be that much I guess going into the first quarter next year.
I'm just trying to model out next year.
Yes.
Well we haven't really given an outlook for next year.
But when things come on the books and we have seen some paydowns as we mentioned earlier that tends to accelerate it.
So part of the art in this forecasting is thinking about how the loans come off the books they are mature or are prepaid sooner than the contractual and that's the tricky part in modeling this.
But anyway it'll still be a significant amount of money next year which as I said we'll give more details on in January.
Research Division</strong> And the other issue Beth going back -- following up I think on Brian's question about the Mortgage Business we've seen a lot of capacity especially you have Bank of America getting out of the correspondent business leave the mortgage business.
Is that an area that you guys are looking into to try to fill some of those voids some of those bigger guys leaving the correspondent business? No.
If you think about it correspondent banking and of course mortgage banking finance is 2 different products.
We're very focused on the high-quality mortgage companies and really providing warehouse facilities as well as other products and services.
In fact some of our best cross-sell as I look at the business bank is in our mortgage banking finance.
So these are real relationships.
And that's really what we do for a living and so it's very consistent with our strategy.
Research Division</strong> But I definitely would think that there is some probably good companies out there looking for a new home at this point.
Yes.
Well it's I think played nicely into our hands.
And we're going to be continue to be there in the market.
And as far -- as we've mentioned before we've really kind of enhanced kind of the sales culture and the focus and part of that's in our Specialty Businesses including mortgage banking finance and being out making the calls and it's played nicely for us and we continue to hope to grow that business.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Sorry for another NIM question but obviously it's been coming in less than expected the macro environment has proved to be a lot different.
I don't know if you can answer this question now or maybe give us some color at a future date but I think having some sensitivities out there would be helpful.
For example if bond rates pop up 50 bps and loan growth is a little bit better than expected do you get back the 20 basis points in NIM that kind of went away this quarter? Conversely if the 10-year goes back below 2 and there's no loan growth and liquidity builds do we see kind of meaningful NIM pressure? And I appreciate that the swings in the market have been huge but having some sensitivities out there might be helpful as well as kind of the base case guidance.
Yes.
Matt you made a reference to NIM being down 20 basis points.
It's not down 20 basis points.
Even if you take accretion out of the third quarter and you equalize the excess liquidity position between the second and the third we're down about 8 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just meant the guidance was for 335 to 340 for the back half.
Yes.
And there are 2 reasons for that.
One is that the excess liquidity is much higher than what we had assumed for that.
That's a big part of the explanation.
And the other piece is the -- what I view as kind of a onetime re-mark if you will of accelerated amortization on the securities portfolio because rates did change so dramatically.
You saw it in our yield.
Our yield in our portfolio went from 3.40% to 2.87%.
And because of that we had to take this acceleration of the amortization which because we have shorter lives now we have to amortize it over a shorter period and so that onetime adjustment happened in the third quarter.
So again I don't view that as an ongoing drag.
There will be an ongoing drag from lower yields in the securities portfolio which is not unique to Comerica but it -- we can -- we have other things that I talked about that will provide offsets both in the fourth quarter and next year that we feel pretty good about the stable outlook we gave.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I mean just going forward anything on sensitivities would be helpful.
I mean it seems like some of the well what I call NIM give up versus expectations you could can get back if rates rise and you deploy liquidity if loan growth is better.
And then conversely I think some people worry that if rates go back down loan growth is not there liquidity continues to build because you're viewed as safer than some that there could be some NIM risk.
So any sensitivities you can provide now or a future date would -- I think would be helpful to many.
Okay.
And the impact when you just think about it in the macro sense the impact on earning assets the securities portfolio is a much smaller percentage of earning assets and loans.
And so the relative impact is a handful of basis points on these kinds of things versus something more dramatic.
But I'm happy to address that as we move forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just a separate question.
I mean I think the expense initiatives are a good theme for the industry to be focused on.
I think you guys have been focused on expenses for a long time now so it's impressive that there's more savings still to come.
As we think about that $100 million for next year is that on a run rate basis or should we just put $100 million of basically pre-provision earnings increase into kind of whatever we have thought for next year? So do you get the full -- I guess the first question is do you get the full $100 million next year or is it more on a run rate basis so that the entire $100 million would be realized in 2013? No.
We would have -- we're talking about having a $100 million improvement in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that would be -- I mean there's no offsets to that? So if pre-provision earnings are running call it $700 million-ish it would be $100 million on top of that? Yes.
Well I mean you have to factor in some of the things we talked about as some of the challenges.
Whether you have those in your models I'm not sure.
We had not previously disclosed what the impact of regulatory impacts.
We had disclosed those for this year but had not talked about them.
For next year that's a $26 million negative employee pensions.
Because interest rates are so low we are going to have higher pension expense next year.
And healthcare continues -- actually we've managed pretty well and the general marketplace is low double digits.
We've been handling kind of high single-digit increases.
But those combined are $30 million to $40 million.
So I don't know if you had those in your models.
Those are some of the things we're trying to more than offset with these efficiencies and revenue improvements.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin St.
Pierre with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess most of my questions have been addressed.
I guess it's a good sign that there's been relatively few credit-related questions but maybe I'll just throw one at you.
Reserve to loan ratio now below 2%.
Do you see any floor in that metric or will that just be dictated by the improvement in underlying credit quality? I think it'll be dictated by the underlying improvement in credit quality.
And as we said we've seen our major metrics improve for 9 quarters.
As long as the economy continues to improve we expect that steady improvement to continue as well.
But it would be very difficult to predict a floor on that.
You might mention the affect of Sterling bringing in the portfolio on that ratio.
Yes the -- it dropped from quarter-to-quarter to the 1.86 simply because of the math.
As you add the loans from Sterling into the Comerica legacy loans the denominator grows but you bring those loans over consistent with purchase accounting these days without a reserve.
So that does affect the trend line there.
If you just look at Comerica legacy it would be at 1.95.
Yes it's 1.95 without that.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Patten with Morgan Keegan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Kevin hit my question right on the head.
I know we can't pick a floor but can you give us like a little idea of what the accountants are saying right now in terms of how they're addressing the FASB issues? We know credit's getting better.
We can look at what's going on in the ratios and so forth.
Are we going to run it down like we did in the last cycle the late '90s or are we going to keep some kind of economic cushion on those? Again it's very difficult to predict the absolute path here.
Will the ratio continue to decline? Yes I honestly think that it will as the economy continues to improve and our overall level of nonaccrual loans continues to decline.
You might recall that we took an approach early on in the recession that we had a very strong capital position a very strong balance sheet.
We were not going to engage in fire sales [ph] on the loans.
We're going to continue to work those through our very experienced workout group.
So we'll continue to do that and as the nonaccrual loans come down the ratio will adjust appropriately.
But again it's very difficult to predict how far down it'll go.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And the reason I asked the question is we're sitting with 300 400 basis points Tier 1 common coming out of this cycle than we did last time and we ended up as you see pushing the banks to 1% or below.
So are you guys sensing any of that sort of recurrence in discussion? I'm not sensing any of that at this point.
But you might reiterate how you build the reserves every quarter.
Yes we have a methodology that served us well we've been using for about 10 years now.
It's a block-by-block every quarter based on individual reserves for nonaccrual loans a pool approach based on statistical models for all other loans.
And then some special reserves as needed for those sectors of the portfolio that might be incurring charge-offs that aren't fully reflected in our standard loss factors.
So it's a very methodical approach and the days of the old general reserve are really gone.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one real quick question on Sterling.
Beth do you actually have the net interest income impact from Sterling? I know you gave us the accretable yield impact but -- and we know -- first just trying to get to the total revenue impact out of Sterling.
We know we have the fee income piece the accretable yield.
I just wondered if you have the rest of the NII impact from Sterling.
Excluding accretion it's $21 million in the quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Okay.
And really just -- apologize again if you already went through this but it's still pretty early out here on the West Coast.
I apologize.
But the $100 million in annual profit improvement from the revenue and efficiency opportunities that's an after-tax number or that's a pretax -- it's a -- that's a pretax? That's pretax.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Then maybe the last thing too.
The commitments to commit you said those were up nicely in the third quarter.
I mean can you give us an idea of where they are now versus second quarter? And any of that commitments to commit related to the Mortgage Banker Finance book and auto floor plan how much of that is from just good old-fashioned good-old Middle Market and Small Business versus those other business lines? Commitments to commit are up $400 million in the quarter to $1.9 billion.
And keep that in context that number in the fourth quarter of last year was $900 million.
So commitments to commit have been rising literally just about every quarter first quarter -- from fourth to first first to second second to third.
What we aren't seeing yet is the drawdown of some of those facilities but the fact that they are being put in place is very positive and I think Lars it's really across a lot of the business.
I think it is.
It's really across all of our lines of business.
Part of it would be in Commercial Real Estate and some of the new multi-family commitments that we've put out there.
And those Commercial Real Estate properties that we're underwriting today I mean they have 35% 40% cash in on -- so you're looking out at a 12-month oftentimes horizon before you even begin to get any outstandings against some of those closings.
But we are seeing it across the board and -- but we need utilization rates to go up too.
And so we were encouraged by that.
And solicitation rate really helped us.
It's up 1 tick.
As we look over the last quarter almost 1% and I think that bodes well for us.
That's 2 quarters in a row.
Yes.
That's correct.
Two quarters in a row right of increasing line utilization.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Last November I believe you did increase the dividend and paid it out I think early in the first quarter.
Just listening to some of the commentary earlier in the call is that not something -- is that something we should not expect this November until we get into the new year? I think we have to go back to what Beth was talking about earlier.
We've got to see if there's any other rules and where they are and we'll make our determinations accordingly there.
And as I mentioned and I would underline we have a very strong capital base and historically we have been -- we have appropriately managed that capital base through the ups and downs whether it be dividend and/or buybacks.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last question.
If I look at the pieces of your loan portfolio and look at your commentary for the fourth quarter it seems like for the most part it's flat to higher in the fourth quarter.
And then looking at the runoff of Commercial Real Estate it has slowed and has continued to slow down but yet your guidance has called for flat loans.
And I'm wondering is it maybe -- Ralph your comments earlier in the call where you talked about Energy maybe being a little bit -- being a little soft just given what prices have done.
Is it the Energy portfolio maybe potentially trending lower? I'm trying to simply match up your commentary for the fourth quarter for all the lending categories relative to total loans.
Yes.
I think it really focuses on the fact that Middle Market is still kind of going sideways right now for us and Small Business continues to be a drag.
So I think until we begin to see some percolation in those 2 -- the Specialty Business we're very pleased about.
There's some ins and outs that we talked about earlier but core Middle Market particularly outside of Texas and Small Business really pretty much everywhere we just -- there isn't momentum at this point.
Yes.
As Lars was mentioning earlier and as Beth mentioned too when you talk to customers today many of our customers are doing quite well.
And -- but what they're not doing is investing as they would have in the past.
And what do I mean by that? As things begin to grow confidence is going to have to build before the customers are going to reach out and begin to -- and I'll use an example of one I talked to the other day -- begin to build additional factory capacity.
So a lot of this depends on -- and I think we're being cautious but depends on where confidence and the economy begins to move going forward.
Right now our economist Robert Dye is projecting GDP for the year to be under 2%.
While certain states will do better than that like Texas as an example and Michigan will do better than his current -- what he's forecasting it to be ahead of the national side there's still a great deal of lack of confidence there.
And we're going to have to have -- we're going to have see that from a national standpoint before you start to see the kind of -- especially our customers begin to move forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
I missed what the actual line utilization number increased to.
Was it 45? What was the number? 45.5 up 1 percentage point.
Research Division</strong> 45.5.
Okay great.
And just a question about your -- about the Technology and Life Sciences division.
Obviously some great growth this quarter.
Is that growth coming from the kind of startups is it coming from more established companies is it what you consider new market growth or kind of market share shift? If you think about our Technology and Life Sciences business it's not so much about the company as it is kind of the sponsors the equity sponsors.
And those are the folks that we work with and have worked with over many many years.
And frankly that's been a rich space.
There's been a lot of startup.
We're primarily focused on the early stage.
It's been a great business for us.
We're -- as we've shared before we have 3:1 in terms of deposits to loans and outstanding.
So not so much about the companies as it is the sponsors.
The sponsors continue to be very active.
There's a lot going on.
And frankly the market until recently has been very receptive to IPOs also for these companies.
And that's kind of played into our hands in terms of our warrant strategy.
But we see that as a continued growth business for us.
Could there be a little bit of cooling? Could be.
There's been a little bit of that in the IPO market but overall long-term good growth business for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one question on National Dealer.
I guess I would have expected it to have been a little more stable this quarter.
Was the decline this quarter more a function of the domestic auto dealers as opposed to any more hangover from the Japanese supply issues? Actually if you look at the period and balance you'll see that that effectively not down as much as the average is.
In other words it's beginning to turn.
And so when we talk about growth in the fourth quarter we believe at this point that we will see growth in outstandings as we look forward.
The Japanese nameplates have been showing up as we had shared before on the lots.
Their production is back.
But those vehicles are moving very quickly which I think is contributing to the increase in light vehicle sales nationally up to 13.1 nationally.
So I think what we're going to do is we really need kind of a combination of a couple things.
What can help us is actually a slowdown in sales a little bit because it does increase inventories on the lots.
But as the Japanese nameplates which for us represents about 40% of our portfolio as they are able to build inventories on the lots that will certainly help the outstandings as we turn the corner.
Your next question comes from the line of Jim Agah with Millennium Partners.
I just want to ask you a couple questions about sort of the forward look like what bases we should be using? Because in noninterest expense you have about $460 million in this quarter but that I guess includes 2 months of Sterling not 3 right? So it should be going up sort of $9 million-ish next quarter? Well that certainly -- looking at the Sterling piece of it yes.
It was $18 million in the third quarter adding an additional month the similar run rate would be the $9 million that you mentioned.
Right.
And then merger and acquisition -- or merger and restructuring expenses go up a little bit right? They were $33 million and they're going to $40 million? Yes and we said $40 million.
Okay.
So then -- okay go ahead Beth.
No that's okay.
Well when you strip that out right and then you look forward to these $100 million of synergies -- or $100 million of pretax profit improvement you're not double-counting the Sterling synergies as well right? The Sterling synergies should be on top of that $100 million right? That is absolutely correct.
So it's the $56 million the 35% that is incremental to the $100 million.
Right.
So all other things being equal Sterling synergies plus the $100 million profit improvement next year should result in a $156 million of pretax profit improvement before those things you talked to...
In terms of the -- some of the challenges.
Right.
The pension and healthcare costs you said? $30 million to $40 million and regulatory impacts of interchange is $26 million.
And I do want to make a comment.
What we've said about the expense synergies in Sterling that the run rate the 35% reduction or the $56 million reduction will be fully realized by the end of next year.
That's what our guidance has been.
So it's not a day 1 obviously.
Right.
Right right okay.
That's a good clarification.
And then what about for -- well that's -- I mean that's very positive.
So I look forward to that improvement.
Now on the noninterest expense on the noninterest revenue side the fee revenue side you're backing out -- we should back out securities gains right of $12 million when we look at sort of a core run rate or a base? Yes what we had in the third quarter from the Sterling repositioning of the portfolio was $11 million.
Those will not recur in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
$11 million.
But that's $11 million of the $12 million right? Well we had actually $8 million securities gains in the -- quarter-over-quarter sorry.
Yes.
Now I'm confused.
Anyway you should back out...
Right.
$12 million reported $8 million was the increase.
Yes exactly.
$11 million of the $12 million was related to Sterling that will not recur.
Okay.
So -- but when I look forward -- when I sort of like forecast growth or shrinkage I should be using the number x securities gains right? That is correct.
Well no no no.
We are giving our outlook based on total NII.
And total NII included the securities gains in the third quarter.
So and then we're saying the fourth compared to third you absolutely have to include everything the $201 million of noninterest income is what we had in the third quarter.
Okay good.
Okay.
That's a good clarification.
And then when you were speaking earlier with Erika about the CCAR and the buyback and how you have to present your capital plan to the Fed in January it's most likely then that that share repurchase activity will be -- it'll be weighted towards the final 3 quarters of 2012 one would expect.
Is that right to assume? Yes at this juncture I'm not prepared really to talk about color there.
One we don't know that that's going to be the case.
We believe it is that we'll have to submit a capital plan but at this juncture I'm not going to go into details of what our thinking is because we're still working on it.
Okay.
And then when you said the portfolio yield Beth went from -- did you say 3.40% to 2.87%?  That was year-over-year I take it? No that was in the quarter.
If you look at our slides related to -- I mean our investment portfolio there's a 3.40% yield in the second quarter and a 2.87% in the third.
Wow.
Okay.
Yes yields on mortgage-backeds have really declined.
Okay.
And the drag from prepayment amortization on the NIM was I think 6 basis points this quarter? Yes.
We had to -- because of the shortening of the lives we had to accelerate the amortization of the premium which is 6 basis points or $8 million.
Okay.
That's not really expected to occur going forward right? That is correct.
It is not expected to recur.
And then lastly on the margin the excess liquidity cost in basis points that should go down towards next year right? That would be our expectation with modest growth.
But the thing that's -- with modest loan growth the thing that's been very difficult to predict is deposits.
I would not have conjectured this past quarter that we would have the -- forgetting the Sterling piece that we would have had the growth we've had.
So that's the big unknown.
Where did that deposit growth come from? Were you running programs or was it just...
No.
If you look at our deposit costs we're -- we have very low deposit costs and so it relates to our relationship focus.
And excess liquidity our customers are generating cash flow.
They're putting their cash on deposit with us until they need to use it.
So it really is a reflection of kind of the cautiousness that's out in corporate America and we have very good relationships across virtually all of our lines of business and virtually all of our major -- well certainly across all of our major markets deposits were up.
So it's a good story.
It just happens to create a little excess liquidity for a period and we'll have to deal with that.
And we did.
We took action to put $1 billion of it to use in a more productive way.
Your next question comes from the line of Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson and Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think all the questions have really been asked but Beth what are the expectations for merger charges in 2012? We had said originally that there were $80 million after tax in total.
We have now taken $24 million and have indicated that another $25 million would be in the fourth quarter.
I think that's $49 million so the balance of $41 million after tax would be in next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And would that be kind of between first and second quarter most likely? Or all in the first quarter? It's probably more in the first half.
Your next question comes from the line of Justin Maurer with Lord Abbett.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> The liquidity is it -- you just mentioned deposit rates being low.
What -- there's no way to really pin it down but is that in a negative spread? I mean I presume it probably is once it's a fully baked number with costs associated.
But just on an NII basis is it negative or close to negative spread on that? In terms of -- are you talking about incremental deposits? Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Okay.
Going into incremental investments with the Fed I would say generally it's pretty much of a wash.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Because everybody's obviously fixated as you outlined the 8 basis point impact on NIM.
But really what matters is NII.
That's where I was going with that.
Yes.
Well -- and obviously earning assets are bigger as a result.
We in fact in the outlook we provided in the fourth quarter is $54.5 billion which is up significantly from the third and certainly from the second half outlook we gave back in July it's up significantly from there.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to come back to Slide 15 again and just ask one summarizing question which is just when you talk about the implementation of these projects revenue enhancement efficiency improvement it's that alone that can get $100 million.
But I just wanted to make sure are you trying to signal in totality what could happen with pretax pre-provision or is what happens actually in the business plus or minus that as well? Like it doesn't mention just loan growth which you mentioned could be slightly positive or you haven't really talked about what your forward margin could be also.
So I just want to make sure if we're either reading too much or too little into the absolute numbers that we're seeing on the slide in terms of the overall business performance expected for next year? Yes.
The -- we have not given guidance on loan growth other than to say we -- margin we have given this early read that next year we think it will be fairly stable assuming modest loan growth.
But these things describe -- the revenue enhancement and efficiency improvements described on Page 15 are not related to loan -- other things loan growth provision any of those things.
This is just about primarily focused on fee income as well as efficiency on the expense side.
In addition to -- we've already taken action as I mentioned of putting $1 billion into securities yielding a 183 versus previously 25 basis points.
So that's part of the enhancements as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
So it's tough to tease out basically right? But we're going to get some improvement based on these things and then there's just also what happens in the core performance of the business itself which is not all necessarily captured in $100 million.
Could be if there is loan growth I would presume that that's additive as opposed to detractive versus $100 million.
Well what I would say is again to remind you that there are challenges that we are facing whether you have those in your models I don't know.
One is regulatory impact next year negative $26 million and higher employee pension and healthcare expenses of $30 million to $40 million higher in '12 versus '11.
So those are some of the things we're working on offsetting.
But in addition contributing additional profit improvements on top of offsetting those challenges.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
Okay.
And your comments about flat margin with a little low loan growth so you're not commenting explicitly on loans next year but do you have just a general backdrop for what you expect to pan out without giving necessarily explicit guidance on numbers for next year? What I would say is obviously a lot depends on what the economic outlook is.
We are -- a lot of economists are saying we're teetering on a recession.
I think our view is that -- we're hopeful that we won't get into that again.
And if it is it's going to be a modest kind of thing like in the early 2000s where one quarter might be positive one quarter might be a little negative.
We've already been through the worst of the real estate restructuring all of those bubbles that happened.
We've been through that.
So if anything slows down in my view in our collective view it's not going to be a material thing.
So assuming though we get back onto a 2% 2% to 3% kind of trajectory on growth GDP growth next year we would see modest loan growth yes.
This would be our expectation.
Your next question comes from Peter Ganucheau with Carlson Capital.
L.P.</strong> I just heard the word "growth " and I'm getting all excited here.
I talked about next year Peter.
L.P.</strong> Yes yes.
Well next year is what people care about guys okay? So I know we're talking about Q4 and okay I go through the pieces.
And it's like I listen to Lars and I get all excited and then I'd listen to the outlook and I'm like blah.
Dealer is going to grow in Q4.
CRE runoff is slower.
The mortgage warehouse is going to normalize but it's not going to fall off a cliff in Q4.
I mean this -- we have -- we've got the funding of all these mortgages.
Michigan is doing okay.
Look I guess I'll just ask you on a 1 to 10 scale how aggressive do you think you're being on the loan growth guidance in Q4? Peter you know us well.
We tend to be conservative at how we approach things but as -- you highlighted some of the positive things but Small Business is still a drag.
Wealth Management actually wealthy people have kind of pulled back.
And so we're not seeing -- we're seeing declines in loans in Wealth Management as well.
And Middle Market as I said has been kind of flattish.
So those are important sectors those 3 to our business that don't have a clear direction at this point.
So that's why we can talk about the ones that we're more confident about whether dealer we believe will come back some.
How much that is to Lars' point not sure Mortgage Banker yes.
You're probably -- points are well taken in real estate.
But it's all -- that's only a portion of the business.
And so that's why we kind of put it together the way we did.
I would underline too that the Mortgage Banker and the dealer that can move very quickly depending on where the economy and where confidence is.
And positive signals there can be a significant increase there where negative signals as we've seen like we saw on Mortgage Finance a couple of quarters ago can go the opposite way when things slow down.
So it gets back to what Beth was talking about earlier.
As we see steady growth in the economy and if confidence builds at the same time then things could be -- there would really be an additional I think to our forecast there.
L.P.</strong> Okay.
So some hope.
And then are we getting hit with any other big prepays like the $1 billion in this quarter -- I'm sorry in the large payoffs? Yes.
We -- well we expect actually pretty large prepayments in the -- just cash flows in the fourth quarter.
Our portfolio is bigger but also -- given the interest rate environment.
But we do not see or expect like we had in the third an acceleration of the amortization of the premium.
So that was kind of a onetime thing that when there's a big C change in the securities things we have to do a catch-up.
So that catch-up really happened in the third.
It's not my expectation we would see that moving forward.
Unless -- rates -- those yields are hard to go much lower.
I mean those are yielding anywhere in the high 1s 1.80% to 2.30% 2.40% depending on the structure.
So unless there's some very significant step down in rates again I wouldn't expect that and we're not expecting that.
L.P.</strong> Right.
And that's why when I look at the NIM outlook all the desk analysts have tattooed you guys as the most sensitive to falling rates which of course is not true because 80% of your loan book is variable.
I mean you have the most upside if short rates go up but you don't have much downside to your core NIM.
Given that the 315 -- again on a scale of 1 to 10 are you being -- how aggressive is that? I'm not going ask you how conservative it is because you're so conservative you probably wouldn't score yourself high on being conservative.
But...
It's our best guess at this point.
That's all I can say.
It's our best guess.
L.P.</strong> All right.
All right.
So if I laid out a scenario where the world isn't melting down and the economy does kind get a little better -- we get different guidance from different crews right on the management side.
You're not losing massive market share to Wells Fargo in Houston is that fair? No.
One thing I would say is that you can get in today's market about as much growth as you want if you're willing to price and if you're willing to structure certain ways.
We have a very deliberate kind of pricing strategy that has served us very very well.
We're going to stick with that and over a long period of time we believe it will provide superior returns.
As well as underwriting.
Consistent underwriting has proved well in the past so.
Yes.
There are no further questions at this time.
Well thanks everyone and I appreciate you all joining us for the call today and have a good day.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our fourth quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures.
And in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported fourth quarter net income of $96 million or $0.48 per share.
Impacting the quarter were merger and restructuring charges of $37 million or $0.12 per share related to our acquisition of Sterling Bancshares which we completed on July 28 2011.
Turning to Slide 4 you will see highlights from the fourth quarter.
We are pleased to see total loan growth of $1.5 billion or 4% on a period-end basis which was driven by a $1.9 billion or 8% increase in Commercial loans particularly in National Dealer Services Mortgage Banker Finance Energy Lending Technology &amp; Life Sciences and Global Corporate Banking.
We had record deposits of $47.8 billion at year-end 2011 with an increase in period-end deposits of $303 million or 1% compared to the third quarter.
Net interest income of $444 million increased $21 million or 5% compared to the third quarter primarily resulting from an increase in average earning assets of $2.4 billion.
Noninterest income of $182 million decreased $19 million compared to the third quarter primarily due to a $16 million decrease in net securities gains.
Noninterest expenses increased $18 million to $478 million compared to the third quarter primarily due to severance and related expenses merger and restructuring charges as well as one additional month of Sterling.
We continue to see steady improvement in credit trends in the fourth quarter.
This was the 10th conservative quarter of a decline in net charge-offs with a $7 million -- $17 million decrease.
The decline was larger than expected primarily the result of higher recoveries in the quarter.
Other credit metrics were in line with expectations.
Nonperforming assets were under $1 billion for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2008.
The former Sterling loan portfolio has performed as expected.
As a result of the overall improvement in credit quality the provision for loan losses declined to $19 million.
Our capital remains strong as evidenced by our Tier 1 common capital ratio of 10.31% at December 31 2011.
Under the share repurchase program we repurchased 1.6 million shares in the fourth quarter and a total of 4.1 million shares in 2011.
Combined with dividends this resulted in a total return to shareholders of 47% of net income.
We continue to be an active capital manager and believe we approach capital management from a position of strength.
As required we submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reserve on January 9 2012.
We expect their response in mid-March.
As previously announced we are targeting a first quarter 2012 total payout ratio of up to 50% of net income through the share repurchase program and dividends.
With respect to our Sterling acquisition we announced the successful completion of systems integrations and the opening of former Sterling branches as Comerica banking centers on November 14 2011.
All former Sterling customers can now bank at any Comerica banking center with complete access to our full line of extended product and service offerings.
This acquisition continues to be a great fit as the former Sterling’s size geographic footprint and customer focus uniquely fits our strategy and expands our presence in Texas.
We continue to be focused on delivering revenue and expense synergies from the acquisition.
Karen will go into more detail shortly.
The Sterling acquisition provides us an enhanced growth opportunity in one of the most attractive markets in the U.S.
Turning to the economic outlook for each of our key regions.
Our Texas Economic Activity Index indicates the state economy is growing even as the pace of growth eased a bit toward year-end.
Our Chief Economist expects the gains in employment and manufacturing activity toward the end of last year will lift the index going forward.
Texas is expected to outperform the national economy in 2012 as we believe it did in 2011.
Strong auto sales at the end of 2011 helped charge the Michigan economy.
The rate of job growth for the state is about on par with the national average and the unemployment rate is set to resume trending downward.
More stability in labor markets will in turn help to stabilize the state's housing markets.
We're certainly pleased by these positive developments in a state where we have a long history of service to our customers through many economic cycles.
California's economy is showing signs of growth but key components of economic activity remain soft.
We believe the broadest measure of economic activity for the state payroll job creation is heading in the right direction and helping to bring California's unemployment rate down gradually.
Ongoing job growth through the end of 2011 should help support the state's economy and firm up tax revenues.
Silicon Valley continues to hire and this is a -- more good news for our Technology &amp; Life Sciences customers and the state.
We're anticipating a slow-growing national economy in 2012.
So as you know we have heightened our focus on profit improvement.
We are tracking our revenue-enhancing initiatives as well as our continued expense management and are on course to deliver the expected results.
Karen will provide our 2012 outlook which incorporates our profit improvement plan.
I believe we are appropriately positioned for growth in this economic environment.
The Sterling acquisition accelerates our growth in Texas and provides us considerable momentum going into 2012.
We have the right people products and services in place to make a positive difference for our customers employees and shareholders.
And now I'll turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 5 you will see that we ended the year with total loans at $42.7 billion an increase of 4% or $1.5 billion quarter-over-quarter with increases noted in almost every line of business as well as across our growth markets of Texas and California.
Commercial loans drove the increase up $1.9 billion or 8% quarter-over-quarter driven in large part by National Dealer Services Mortgage Banker Finance Energy Lending Technology Life Sciences and Global Corporate Banking.
In our National Dealer Services business the auto industry began to return to more normal industry levels as expected which helped drive outsized quarter-over-quarter growth.
However even if you strip away the growth in our National Dealer business you can see on the right-hand chart that the rest of our Commercial loan portfolio still grew about 6% again driven by broad-based increases across our businesses.
While not depicted on this slide I would like to comment on our Mortgage Banker business.
We had over $500 million quarter-over-quarter growth in our period-end loans in that business driven by the continuation of low mortgage rates industry-wide volume constraint and recent market share gains.
We believe our balances in that business could be variable in the future as mortgage rates stabilize and refinancing becomes a smaller component of the overall volume.
As you know we track our loan growth against the industry.
And as you can see on Slide 6 our loan growth has been roughly in line with the industry over most of the last 5 quarters.
In the third quarter we obviously benefited from the Sterling acquisition.
But if you remove the impact of Sterling as we have done with the dotted line on this chart you can see our loans grew less than the industry in the third quarter mainly due to the Japanese supply chain disruption in our auto dealer lending business.
In the fourth quarter however loan growth outpaced the industry.
We believe that our concentration in C&amp;I lending helped this growth as you can see in the chart on the right.
Turning to Slide 7.
Perhaps a good sign for the overall economy our line utilization was up over 2 percentage points from 45.5% to 47.6% the largest increase we've had in the last 2 years.
That utilization rate increased even as our commitments the denominator in the equation increased 4% to $46.9 billion a level we have not seen since the third quarter of 2009.
In line with the growth in outstandings increased commitments were noted in almost every line of business and our loan pipeline remains strong which is encouraging given the volume of closings we had in the fourth quarter.
As shown on Slide 8 our deposits continue to grow in the fourth quarter across all major markets and most lines of business.
In fact at $47.8 billion we reached a record level.
Our average deposits increased $2.7 billion quarter-over-quarter due in large part to one additional month of Sterling.
Of the increase $1.7 billion came from noninterest-bearing deposits and $1 billion from interest-bearing deposits.
Just as a reminder at 40% we have the highest percentage of noninterest-bearing to total deposits among our peers based on last quarter's data.
We believe this reflects our strong relationship banking focus.
On a period-end basis our deposits increased $303 million or 1% with noninterest-bearing deposits increasing 3%.
Interest-bearing deposits declined on a period-end basis which is mainly a reflection of our prudent approach to deposit pricing.
Turning to net interest income on Slide 9 we had a 5% or $21 million quarter-over-quarter increase primarily driven by $2.4 billion increase in our average earning assets.
To give you a sense of the breakdown loan growth contributed about $13 million to net interest income our larger securities portfolio added about $12 million and a decrease in our deposit costs added about $3 million.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the accretion of the purchase discount on the Sterling portfolio and the impact of reinvesting the prepayments in our mortgage-backed portfolio at slightly lower yields.
Just as a reminder our strategy with the MBS portfolio is to maintain a shorter-duration highly liquid lower-risk portfolio.
Currently the average yield on the portfolio is 2.74% with a duration of 2.7 years.
Loan yields were modestly lower quarter-over-quarter reflecting lower prepayment fees and a slightly lower contribution from accreting -- accretion on the Sterling portfolio.
We have not seen any material loan spread compression over the last several quarters.
However we are seeing increased competition for customers as liquidity in the banking system continues to increase.
As mentioned before our balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
Approximately 80% of our loans are floating rate and 70% of that is LIBOR based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
We believe a 200 basis point annual increase in rates equivalent to 100 basis points on average will result in approximately $150 million increase in net interest income.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 10 our metrics continued to improve.
Net charge-offs decreased $17 million to $60 million in the quarter.
While our gross charge-offs modestly improved in the fourth quarter our recoveries were significantly better.
Over the last 8 quarters recoveries have averaged about $20 million per quarter substantially higher than the $7 million average per quarter over the 2 years prior to that.
These results support our prudent approach to charge-offs.
That being said the timing and size of recoveries is the most difficult credit metric to forecast.
Our watch list in nonperforming loans also continued to trend downward after a slight uptick in the third quarter reflecting the addition of the Sterling portfolio.
Watch list loans decreased over $500 million to $4.5 billion at December 31.
Nonperforming loans decreased $71 million.
As a result of the overall continued improvement in credit quality our provision for loan losses declined to $19 million.
We ended  the quarter with a reserve ratio of 1.7%.
On Slide 11.
Our expenses remained well controlled and on a normal run-rate basis were essentially stable.
Over the last 5 quarters you can see our expenses without restructuring charges increasing 1% even as we increased our workforce by just over 4% due to the Sterling acquisition.
It's important to note that our workforce excluding legacy Sterling employees decreased 1%.
Our noninterest expenses totaled $478 million in the fourth quarter an increase of $18 million reflecting increases from one additional month of Sterling severance costs and restructuring costs as shown on the slide.
Turning to capital on Slide 12.
As you know our capital position remains strong with 10.35% Tier 1 capital.
Importantly the quality of our capital ranks among the best in our peer group with common stock comprising over 99% of our Tier 1.
When we began our share repurchase program last year we announced a target total payout ratio of up to 50%.
We were pleased to end the year close to that target at 47% through dividend payments and over $4 million in shares repurchased.
Throughout the fourth quarter we repurchased 1.6 million shares.
As Ralph mentioned we submitted our stress test and capital plan to our regulators earlier this month and expect to receive a response in mid-March.
While it is too early to comment on the plan we continue to believe we are approaching the plan from a position of strength.
And finally as announced in December we have approval to continue our current capital distribution program targeting a total payout ratio of up to 50% through the first quarter of this year.
Turning to Slide 13.
We are proud to say we completed the systems integration of Sterling in mid-November.
With the conversion of over 200 systems and 49 banking centers our legacy Sterling customers can now transact business across the Comerica network.
Although the integration is behind us we remain focused on delivering synergies we told you about at the time of the acquisition.
To reiterate on the revenue side we are expecting approximately $200 million in loan growth and $4 million in noninterest income growth from Sterling in 2012.
On the expense side I am proud to say we have now reached the full 35% synergies that we originally expected to achieve in 2012 mainly due to lower-than-anticipated FDIC expense and our well executed integration enabling a reduction in staffing ahead of schedule.
Finally as you will recall we announced merger and restructuring charges of $125 million at the time of the acquisition.
We spent $75 million of this amount in 2011 and now expect to spend approximately $40 million of this in 2012 reflecting an improvement of approximately $10 million from our original forecast.
The bulk of the remaining charge should be incurred in the second half of 2012 when we expect to complete the acquisition of our real estate integration plan.
The benefit of those additional savings are built into our expense outlook that I will share on the next slide.
The transaction is still expected to break even to Comerica's earnings in 2012 excluding merger and integration cost and being increasingly accretive thereafter.
Finally our outlook.
As you can see we are modifying the format of the guidance we provide.
We have spent the last few months speaking with analysts and investors basically gathering your feedback on the type of guidance that is most helpful.
We greatly appreciate that feedback and based on this have decided that we will provide directional indicators each year along with good color behind it and quarterly updates as needed for key income statement and balance sheet line items that drive our performance.
Hopefully you will recall our profit improvement initiative that began this past fall.
In order to offset the effects of a continued low-rate environment impacts from new regulation and increases in certain expenses we identified over 250 initiatives to help ensure we continue to deliver a growing bottom line.
We shared with you some of those examples as well as the fact that we were driving for over $100 million in some revenue enhancements and mostly expense efficiencies to more than offset the headwinds coming our way.
That profit improvement is built into our year-over-year outlook on this slide.
We expect average loans to increase moderately which we would define as 2% to 5%.
Our pipeline remains strong and we are monitoring tracking and incenting our teams around loan growth.
As we grow our C&amp;I book we expect our Commercial Real Estate balances to continue to decrease but at a slower pace.
Obviously our average balances are aided by the impact of our Sterling acquisition but we still expect to see good legacy growth against the backdrop of a slow economy.
Finally as mentioned earlier we could see variability in our Mortgage Banker business throughout the year with balances potentially moderating in the future if interest rates stabilize and refinancing volume decreases.
We expect net interest income to also increase moderately.
Because Sterling impacted only 5 months in 2011 we will realize the full-year benefit in 2012.
We expect continued loan growth while keeping our deposit cost as low as possible.
Finally as far as the accretion of the Sterling -- of the loan discount on the Sterling acquisition we expect it to be stable year-over-year but realized at an increasingly slower pace over 4 quarters in 2012 as opposed to 2 quarters in 2011.
With respect to credit we expect net charge-offs to decline albeit at a slower pace as we approach normal historical levels and our provision to remain relatively stable.
This is in line with our view that we should continue to see positive credit migration offset by moderate loan growth which combined is expected to result in a modest reserve release.
We expect noninterest income to be relatively stable despite regulatory headwind.
A full year of Sterling its revenue synergies and the positive impact of our profit improvement plan are expected to be offset by a full year of lower interchange fees and our assumption of no further significant securities gains.
Finally we expect noninterest expenses to also be relatively stable reflecting inflation higher pension and healthcare cost as well as 7 additional months of Sterling expenses offset by lower merger and restructuring charges and our profit improvement plan.
Our rule of thumb for the tax rate remains unchanged at 36% of pretax income less approximately $65 million in tax benefit.
In closing we are ready and excited for the year ahead.
While headwinds exist we feel confident that we can continue to deliver strong bottom line growth to our shareholders.
With that we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Not to try and put you on the spot a little bit but in terms of your guidance when you guys used the word moderately I mean how should we be thinking about that? Is it sort of low single digit high single digit? Any context would be helpful.
Yes.
Ken as we said we define moderate to be between 2% and 5%.
Research Division</strong> I probably missed that then.
Okay.
No that's helpful.
And then just the other question I had on margin.
Obviously this quarter held up reasonably much better than what we had expected I think also better than I guess the 3.15% that was guided for.
Where were you guys surprised like what was the driver too that actually caused margin to be better than expected? Obviously our margin was aided by our loan growth and our decreased deposit cost but we also saw slightly higher accretion benefit than we anticipated in our margin.
The next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I want to start so you had good loan growth in the quarter.
Most of it was dealer finance and mortgage warehouse and loans in the largest segment Middle Market were flat again.
Could you give us some color on what you're seeing and hearing from your Mid Market customers? And is this an area that you're expecting to see growth in 2012? Yes.
Lars? Yes Steven.
A couple -- I guess a couple of questions in there.
Maybe I'll answer the second per what we're hearing from our customers.
I think they're cautiously optimistic.
They've obviously delevered the liquidity.
They've built up borrowing capacity and making limited investments we think and they're very well positioned for a growth kind of cycle hopefully ahead which they can benefit in.
The first part of your question though talking about Middle Markets.
It's important to understand that our Middle Market designated group is companies with $2 500 million in revenues but that excludes all of the companies that really fall in our industry-focused groups which is very significant.
So whether it’s Mortgage Banking Finance Technology and Life Sciences Entertainment those are dominated by Middle Market companies also.
So what I’d say Steven is a good proxy for our overall kind of Middle Market growth would be to look at our Commercial loan growth overall for the quarter which was 8%.
So it's a good healthy growth rate and we feel good about that momentum into '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just a follow-up question on the margin.
I know it was tough to get the guidance right in 2012 given the deposit inflows.
With it stabilizing is it your view that you could at least hold the margin relatively steady here? I'm not sure what these comments on the accretion benefit helping that that implies they're going away next quarter.
Just wonder what you're thinking on margin stability here.
Yes.
As you know Steven we're going to focus on giving guidance on net interest income as opposed to margin because net interest income is what truly drives earnings and margin is clearly just a calculation of the results.
So as we focus on net interest income we do expect net interest income to benefit obviously from continued loan growth.
And on the accretion side we do expect it to be stable year-over-year but realized over 4 quarters in 2012 as opposed to 2 quarters in 2011.
So it will be realized at a declining pace.
Hopefully that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Karen what was the accretion benefit this quarter? We had $26 million in accretion benefit this quarter as opposed to $27 million last quarter.
Next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a question on -- basically the past few quarters you've been noting increased competition but no real impact on the loan spreads.
And so was just curious to hear any color around if that's something that you expect to occur in the next few quarters is compressing loan spreads on the loan portfolio.
Lars? Okay.
Yes Brett.
First of all we expect that our loan spreads will materially hold as we head into '12.
The part of your question regarding kind of pricing and spread compression we're continuing to see compression at the larger end of -- or competition excuse me most intensive at the larger end of the market.
But it's competitive throughout the marketplace.
I'll tell you though what we're focused on doing is we've got our bankers out in the marketplace more than ever spending time with our customers prospects building relationships.
And I think if you do that in today's environment you can get paid for your value and we're seeing that in our loan spreads really holding.
Personally I'm seeing that our customers value our type of relationship more than ever in this industry.
So I think we're well positioned to hold our loan spreads.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly I know you're not going to talk specifically about the margin.
But wanted to ask the liquidity that you have on the balance sheet either average or end-of-period is that a number that can decline from here? Or is that essentially kind of how you view liquidity level as a necessary run rate? So on liquidity obviously as we grow loans we expect our liquidity on the balance sheet to decrease.
So hopefully that will be the case.
The next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Sorry this is Kevin Barker for Bob Ramsey.
I'm sorry about that.
If you were looking at your forward guidance if there is one thing where you would see that -- you're saying you're relatively stable on noninterest expense.
Is that something where you could see more merger synergies or you could see more expense saves that maybe increase the margin? How do you look at that going through the next 4 quarters? As we look at noninterest expense obviously it will be -- we'll have 7 additional months of Sterling as we talked about year-over-year.
We also expect higher pension and healthcare costs next year amounting to about $40 million.
We'll offset that by lower restructuring charges of about $35 million and we'll have the profit improvement plan.
And that's how we get to relatively stable on the expense side.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything you could do that would accelerate that or possibly even make that -- even have more synergies? Or is there -- I'm just saying could you beat that or do you see that as very conservative guidance on the expense side? We are always focused on monitoring our expenses.
We've got lots of headwinds coming our way and we're focused on offsetting those headwinds as we talked about.
As it relates to the Sterling benefit we did say that we have received the 35% synergies that we anticipated in 2011.
That said we do have -- we will see some benefit as we focus on our final real estate integration towards the end of 2012 but we have built that into our outlook.
Next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is actually on the provision.
We appreciate the 2012 guidance.
But as we're sort of the looking out to '13 and '14 could you give us a sense of what guidepost we could look at in terms of where -- how do we measure the bottom in the provision in terms of reserve release? Do you look at it as a percentage of charge-offs of the loan portfolio? John? Yes.
The main drivers on both reserves and provision frankly be -- would be net charge-offs the continued improvement in our watch list and frankly loan growth.
As you know it's not as simple as just having a target for the reserve level as a percentage of the portfolio.
We have a very rigorous methodology which we've been using for about 10 years.
That includes reviewing every sizable problem loan every quarter.
The methodology has served us well in all of our cycles.
Our average carrying value of nonaccrual loans is 60%.
And our $726 million reserve on the ALLL is 3x our annualized fourth quarter net charge-off run rate.
So we feel we are well reserved.
Going forward now the reserve level will vary as charge-offs and problem loans decline.
As our loan growth increases that will also increase the reserve level that's required.
Research Division</strong> What are you reserving for new commercial growth? What are you putting away for new commercial growth? Well that's statistically driven by our standard loss factors which is consistent with our methodology.
So that will vary depending upon the assigned risk rating.
So it's hard to generalize about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just have one more question please.
Karen I noticed that your average securities balances on the AFS portfolio was up $1.6 billion quarter-over-quarter.
Could you give us a sense of what you were adding to the portfolio in terms of type and duration? And also could you give us a sense of as you model out 2012 how sticky you believe the deposit growth is going to be? Sure.
I'll tackle the first question first.
Our securities portfolio did increase in the quarter and hopefully you’ll remember at the end of last quarter we talked about putting more of our excess liquidity into mortgage-backed securities with a target portfolio of around $9 billion.
You see the benefit of that in this quarter.
That's what's happening.
In terms of average yields and duration of that mortgage-backed portfolio it's about 2.74% in yield and 2.7% in duration.
It is a portfolio that we are continually focused on maintaining high liquidity strong credit rating et cetera on it.
I'm sorry Erika remind me of your second question.
Research Division</strong> As you look out into 2012 how sticky do you think the deposit inflows that you received in 2011 will be? Yes.
The good news about our deposits is that they're driven by full relationships.
And so because they're driven by full relationships and we have all of the banking business with our customers those deposits are obviously used to help offset the fees around that banking business.
So they are more sticky than many other types of deposits.
So we feel good about the stickiness.
I think too and Lars may want to comment on this what we're seeing with our customers today is much more liquidity from their standpoint and therefore they're maintaining higher deposit levels.
Yes.
I think Ralph to that point if you look at the fourth quarter we obviously had very broad-based growth across a lot of our businesses a lot of our growth markets.
And yet even with $1.9 billion Commercial loan growth we also hit record deposit levels which tells me that our customers seem to be carrying more liquidity possibly a more conservative stance or positioning themselves for growth in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is Bryan -- this is actually Bryan from Ken's team.
I was wondering if you could comment on your loan growth guidance.
The 2% to 5% average growth for the full year seems kind of conservative given that loans are starting much higher on a period-end basis at the end of the fourth quarter.
Could you just comment on some of the moving parts there and specifically what the delta from Mortgage Banker Finance could be if rates normalize? Lars? Yes okay.
Let me first just tackle the Mortgage Banking piece of it and then the guidance piece of it overall.
Mortgage banking is obviously an industry that we've been in a long time.
We're very well positioned and we picked up market share.
But if you look at the fourth quarter volume and growth that we had 75% of that volume Bryan was refis.
So to the extent I think that underlying mortgage rates continue to change and move they hit a 30-year record I think low as of yesterday.
That clearly has an impact and of course drives variability in that particular business line.
And of course we have some other business lines with variability.
To the point about the guidance for 2012 obviously we're coming off of a very healthy fourth quarter growth very broad based but that's against a slow growth economic environment.
And the impact of some of the -- our more variable businesses as well as a continued expected decline in the Commercial Real Estate portfolio albeit at a slower rate is all factored in.
Lars you might want to comment a little bit on the pipelines.
Yes.
Just speaking of the pipelines and again I guess from a -- the sense of optimism that I do have though as we look at 2012.
First of all as we pointed out our commitment levels are up.
Usage levels are up over 2% which is pretty significant in this business.
Commitments to commit are stable and strong.
And in fact we're seeing a very good pipelines.
Over 50% of the pipeline is new business new customers for Comerica.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one follow-up.
Does the noninterest expense guidance of relatively stable include merger and integration charges or should we be looking at that more on a core basis x the merger and integration charges? Yes it does include merger and integration charges.
Our next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with DA Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions.
In terms of the severance expense in fourth quarter what was the actual dollars of severance? Total severance and related expenses were up $5 million.
$7 million was the total.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know you're not providing specific margin guidance going forward.
But just on a kind of looking back in the fourth quarter could you give us an idea where the margin was for December? For the quarter obviously it was at 3.19%.
We did see it improve a little bit more in December.
We had the benefit of LIBOR increasing a little bit more in December than it had in October and November.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question if I can.
Obviously you are continuing -- or you've said that you are continuing your stock buyback plan in the first quarter.
Could you give us just an idea? I know your target payout is 50% but maybe just give us an idea of kind of where your bias lies between buyback and dividend as you look out through 2012.
So we are obviously focused on total payout to our shareholders.
When we think about the mix between dividends and share repurchase we like a steady dividend that can grow slowly with us over time.
We are more biased towards share repurchase because it is something that enables flexibility.
And particularly in this environment when we're able to buy back our stock at lower than book value it's very attractive.
I would underline that as Karen said we have a balanced approach to the dividend as well.
The next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one really quick follow-up question.
Karen on the accretion coming from the Sterling deal you said it was $26 million this quarter $27 million last quarter.
Do you have a breakout of how much of that was accelerated accretable yield from payments coming in faster than expected? I don't have that but I would say it was in the mid single-digit area.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And a question for Lars.
You went into a lot of different details and good granularity.
I guess I was wondering you mentioned that 50% of the pipeline is new business from new customers.
Did you see anything -- and the fourth quarter was so strong in Commercial growth.
Was there any activity you saw from your Commercial customers trying to take advantage of the Obama stimulus plan of trying to put something into production before the end of the year to take advantage of that -- the tax deduction? That issue has come up iron hot [ph].
I've heard it talked about in the industry.
We have not seen that as a material driver.
And I think evidence of that is you look at really the broad-based growth across a number of business lines it's just not a -- was not a material event for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Reynolds with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> Actually my questions have all been asked and answered at this point.
So great quarter guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Hurwich with Ulysses.
Just a follow-up most of my questions have been asked as well.
But on the Sterling acquisition if we were to think about the return given your outlook for the profitability of that franchise do you have any sense as to what your incremental ROE on that -- on their capital base would look like? No.
We haven't looked at it that way.
We are pleased with the performance of Sterling and pleased with our ability to integrate.
So I would -- we're happy with where we are but we honestly haven't looked at the Sterling the way you talked about it.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> In the past you've mentioned commitments to commit and I think they were $1.9 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Obviously this was a strong quarter for bookings.
But can you provide that number? And I'm sorry if I missed it.
Okay.
Lars? Yes.
I think this is really good news because coming off of obviously one of our strongest quarters in a very long time the commitment to commit has remained stable absolutely stable.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So at about $1.9 billion? That's correct.
That's correct Michael.
The next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the margin in your press release.
It shows the margin's down 33 basis points in Texas down 14 basis points in the west down 5 basis points in Florida but on an aggregate basis it's kind of flat.
And just what's the simple explanation for that? Yes.
Obviously our regions and our businesses are impacted by how we FTP our businesses.
But the simple answer is that we benefited from the increase in our mortgage-backed securities portfolio at the top of the house.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately the commercial loan growth I guess it's 32% annualized.
And per your guidance you're not expecting that sort of pace in 2012.
But I was wondering how much of that is for Shared National Credit? If I'm reading the page Slide 19 of your presentation if you could just turn to that it looks like most of the growth is Specialty Businesses and I'm just assuming that's more Shared National Credit or national lending.
Lars? Well first of all maybe looking at the fourth quarter to give some indication.
28% of our [indiscernible] growth in the fourth quarter was Shared National Credits.
80% of that was energy and that would be consistent with our strategy for our Energy business which is very focused on large high-quality energy companies.
So frankly outside of that the majority of it was not Shared National Credit.
I'd underscore also for us for our Shared National Credit kind of strategy we underwrite every single credit like we would any other non-SNC credit.
It's held to the same stable credit underwriting policies and it's held to the same relationship pricing model and pricing governance strategy.
So -- and for us our Shared National Credit relationships which we continue to make a lot of progress on in terms of cross-sell continue to improve in profitability for our company.
The outlook obviously is moderate growth for 2012 to the other part of your question.
And frankly we're just continuing to stay very focused on our businesses and executing on those strategies.
And to the extent that some such as Energy may leverage for risk management purposes the Shared National Credit syndicated our credit capability that would just kind of come along with it.
But we're going to stay very focused on our strategy.
Research Division</strong> The rest of the increase in Specialty Businesses is due to what? Again Slide 19.
I'm just trying to understand that one line.
Energy was a big driver of the increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So Energy is most of that or? Let's say it's Energy and other of our industry businesses including Technology &amp; Life Sciences Entertainment et cetera.
Research Division</strong> So of the $1.4 billion increase in the Business Bank loans how much of that was due to syndicated loans? Yes in the fourth quarter it's 28%.
Great.
And remember 80% of that was Energy.
Right.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the rest of the Specialty Businesses the growth there -- I'm just -- I just want to complete my list.
I want to give 2 other items.
What would I include? The others wouldn't be as focused on syndicated credits if that's what you're trying to get to.
Right.
You may have some growth in U.S.
banking which we had.
Global Corporate would leverage that.
There's a little bit more activity in national Commercial Real Estate which is REIT-oriented financing.
But that would be -- Energy would be the key driver.
Research Division</strong> And also why did loan utilization go up? It's been flat at most of the other big banks or almost all of them.
Whereas in your case it seems like demand has picked up.
Any reason why you might be a little bit different than some peers? We're -- we just continue to focus on our customers and they had good activity and growth.
And we've been growing with them.
As well as the commitments in total we're up.
And from a small business and Middle Market standpoint Texas saw good growth.
That's right.
In fact small business saw a very nice funding to new customers in the fourth quarter and commitment levels were even up for small business.
And Mike if I may add a question from a risk management standpoint on the SNCs.
For the last several years our SNC portfolio has performed really the same way that our portfolio has overall.
It's basically been a mirror.
But interestingly enough in the last couple of quarters it has performed even better than our total portfolio from a credit risk standpoint.
Research Division</strong> All right that's helpful.
I'm sorry one last question.
If I can just go back to my first question that I thought you said the yield on the MBS that you purchased I might have heard this wrong was 2.74%.
Karen? That is the yield on the overall portfolio Mike.
The yields that we are purchasing today are a little bit less than that as you can imagine in the market.
Research Division</strong> So I'm just looking at your yield on assets.
Your yield on earning assets is close to 3.5% for the year at least.
I was just wondering so how did that provide the boost to the margin? Was there anything else that helped the margin? No.
The impact to the margin from the securities portfolio was the fact that we increased the amount in our securities portfolio to a target of about $9 billion.
We did that at the end of last quarter and you see the benefit of it this quarter.
The real driver though is the fact that we had loan growth and we're maintaining our spreads in our loans and we are continuing to focus on our cost of deposits and taking that down where we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello with UBS Securities.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for you.
First up just given the positive trends that you're seeing in terms of loan utilization rates and commitments to commit and whatnot.
Just kind of looking to get some color as to how much of a turning point maybe we've reached here in terms of demand.
Do you feel some of these situations were more kind of situational or one-offs or do you really feel there's been a shift in terms of kind of customer demand out there? Lars? No.
I really can't.
I wouldn't identify it as a onetime event because again if you look at where we got the growth while it was clearly we had good quarter in Mortgage Banking Finance and Dealer and Energy we had nice growth in Technology &amp; Life Sciences and as well as our Global Corporate Banking driven by international Environmental Services Entertainment it was very very broad based.
So no we feel very good about the momentum as we look forward to 2012.
But we're reminded that the backdrop is for 2012 a slow kind of economic environment and we do have of course some businesses with variability in outstandings as we've talked about.
I think as you said earlier I would point out that our customers are making good money.
They're well positioned.
They have a very liquid balance sheet compared to several years ago and they're beginning as you mentioned with that I'll call it cautious optimism that you pointed out to step forward even though there's still a concern about the slow-growing economy.
That's right.
Research Division</strong> That sounds good and that's great color.
And then just my last question is just in terms of kind of the upcoming CCAR and process and whatnot.
When we ran our stress test you guys come out as one of the best positioned banks in terms of excess capital and I know you've guided towards this 50% earnings payout level.
But why not pay out more with your stock at these levels and just the amount of capital strength that you have? Why is 50% a ceiling? And could you increase that? Let me reiterate what Karen said earlier.
The 50% is in the first quarter that we expect to continue to be at the 50% level.
We expect to hear back on our plan on mid-March and then we'll discuss what our ongoing level will be.
The next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
This is Raul on behalf of John.
Most of my questions have already been answered.
Small question on the -- follow-up question on the buybacks.
Could you give us a color around just the timing or the pace of buybacks that you would expect in 2012? And also are there opportunities in terms of capital deployment in 2012? Until we hear back from the Federal Reserve on our capital plan submission it will be very difficult for us to talk about any pace of buyback.
That said we are focused on 50% for the first quarter.
So combined with our dividend we should be on pace to focus on that payout for the first quarter.
Hopefully that’s helpful.
And we would focus quarter-by-quarter.
Next question comes from the line of Jeff Davis with Guggenheim partners.
LLC Research Division</strong> I know the portfolio is small and it’s contracted.
But could you comment on what you're seeing in Commercial Real Estate values in Florida? John? The real estate portfolio in Florida that we have is down to a couple of hundred million dollars Jeff.
And what we're seeing there basically is some slight declines still in that portfolio.
I'm not concerned about it given the fact that we've come through the recession in pretty good shape dealing with that portfolio but I still think it's going to be a while before Florida has anything near a normal real estate market.
LLC Research Division</strong> Would it be fair to say though 2012 is a stabilization year for it then? It almost -- to answer that question properly Jeff you almost have to look at it product by product.
Let's say on multifamily the answer to your question would be yes.
On retail on office for example I don't think stabilization is here yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you may have said it and I just missed it in terms of maybe Mike's question on the Energy book.
Did much of the Energy growth come from European banks pulling out of syndicated deals and someone else stepping up to the plate? Lars? Yes.
We have not seen maybe some of that volume of European banks exiting that some others talk about.
We're very -- we have seen some opportunities come along in Energy and in other -- the broader corporate market and we have selectively looked at them.
But the reality of it is they really have to fit within kind of our footprint within our industry focus.
They need to individually underwrite.
We're not just -- we wouldn't consider just purchasing a position and frankly they've got to really hit our relationship pricing model.
We've got to have an opportunity to add value to the company and for us to get compensated for it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
And I know the portfolio is even much  smaller than Florida.
But any comment on what you're seeing in real -- commercial real estate values in Arizona in the Phoenix market? John? Yes.
It would be almost a reiteration of what I just said in Florida Jeff.
It's a very similar situation.
Single family there is still struggling.
Multifamily in the right location location location is stabilized.
But everything else is still struggling to some extent and probably we'll see a bit of a decline even in 2012.
Final question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question was on the provision expense.
I mean guidance being relatively stable year-over-year 2011 was about $153 million.
If I divide that by 4 I get a quarterly run rate of $38 million which is essentially double what it was in fourth quarter.
So am I to assume that the provision expense is going to double off at the level we saw in fourth quarter going forward? John? I think of this in terms of the annual run rate on the provision and from $153 million it actually leads us to the relatively stable guidance that we offered.
Fourth quarter was a little unusual in that recoveries were abnormally high that quarter which is good news but it did result in the provision being a little bit lower.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So again the $153 million is the run rate for next year is what you're looking at.
Our guidance is relatively stable off of $153 million actual in 2011.
We'll now turn the call over to Ralph Babb for any closing remarks.
I would just like to thank you all for joining us on the call today and your continued interest in Comerica.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer; Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
You’ll hear that Lars has a touch of laryngitis but he is still ready to answer your questions.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our first quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements and in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporated into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures.
In that regard I will direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported first quarter 2012 earnings of $0.66 per share on net income of $130 million a 36% increase from the fourth quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide #4 and further highlights.
Loans continued to grow in the first quarter with average loans up $815 million or 2% primarily reflecting an increase of $1.2 billion or 5% in commercial loans.
The increase in commercial loans was broad-based across the majority of business lines and all major markets.
As expected commercial loan growth was partially offset by the continued decline in Commercial Real Estate loans.
Deposits also continued to grow.
We had record deposits of $49.3 billion at March 31 2012 and had an increase in average deposits of $532 million or 1% primarily reflecting an increase of $461 million in noninterest-bearing deposits.
Net interest income including accretion was stable.
Noninterest income increased $24 million driven by a $10 million or 6% increase in customer-driven fees offsetting the headwinds of regulatory reform.
We continued to have tight control of expenses.
Noninterest expenses decreased $30 million in the first quarter to $448 million primarily due to the decrease in restructuring expenses related to our acquisition of Sterling Bank shares.
Credit quality continued to improve in the first quarter.
This was the 11th consecutive quarter of a decline in net charge-offs with a $15 million decrease.
Net charge-offs are at the lowest level since the third quarter of 2007.
The provision for loan losses was relatively stable.
Our expectations is that we will continue to see the provision and net charge-offs at or near these levels for the remainder of the year assuming the current pace of economic growth is sustained.
We continue to approach capital management from a position of strength.
As we announced on March 14 2012 the Federal Reserve did not object to our capital plan and the capital distributions contemplated in the plan.
The capital plan which was approved by our Board of Directors provides up to $375 million in equity repurchases from the first quarter of 2012 through the first quarter of 2013.
We repurchased $33 million or 1.1 million shares under the share repurchase program in the first quarter of 2012.
Our capital plan further contemplates an increase in our quarterly dividend from $0.10 per share to $0.15 per share a 50% increase.
A dividend proposal will be considered by our board at our meeting on April 24 2012.
Turning to Slide 5 and our key markets and customer sentiment.
Our customers in Texas are feeling more optimistic as evidenced by the 4% quarter-over-quarter average loan growth led by increases in Energy Middle Market and Global Corporate Banking.
We continued to leverage the synergies from our Sterling acquisition.
Momentum in the Texas economy increased in early 2012 after cooling at the end of 2011.
Labor market conditions improved the energy sector remained active and residential construction activity has increased.
We expect to see ongoing gains in our Texas economic activity index throughout 2012 driven by continued strength in those 3 areas.
Average loans in our Midwest market which is primarily Michigan were up 1% for the fourth quarter driven by National Dealer Services and Global Corporate Banking.
A rebounding U.S.
auto industry drove our Michigan economic activity index sharply higher in the start of this year after stalling in late 2011.
Every component of the Michigan index has increased a sign that the recovery in Michigan is reaching beyond the revitalized auto industry and into the non-manufacturing sectors of the state economy.
This is good news for our customers in the state where we have a long history of service through numerous economic cycles.
Average loans in our western market were up 3% compared to the fourth quarter led by National Dealer Services and Technology &amp; Life Sciences.
Our California economic activity index remains flat.
Some parts of the California economy are vibrant notably the high-tech industries of Silicon Valley which includes many of our Technology &amp; Life Sciences customers.
However the housing sector is still a drag on the California economy.
In addition the state's large government sector remains challenged by weaker-than-expected state tax revenues and expected cuts in federal defense spending.
These challenges will likely keep California's economic growth in check through the first half of the year.
In closing continued loan and deposit growth increased customer fee income tight expense management and solid credit performance reaffirm our focus on improving the bottom line even in this low-rate environment and slow-growing national economy.
Our capital position remains strong and we continue to be active capital managers.
We are in the right markets with experienced dedicated colleagues and the products and services our customers’ desire.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning.
Turning to Slide 6.
Ralph talked about total average loan growth of 2% or $815 million quarter-over-quarter as shown on the left-hand side of the slide.
On the right-hand side you can see commercial loans drove the increase up $1.2 billion or 5% driven by broad-based increases across National Dealer Services Energy Global Corporate Banking Middle Market Banking and Technology &amp; Life Sciences.
Our commercial loan growth was partially offset by an average decrease of $352 million or 3% in commercial mortgage and real estate construction loans.
Importantly as you can see by the green bar depicted on the slide our Mortgage Banker average loans quarter-over-quarter were virtually unchanged.
We have talked about variability in that business.
In fact in the fourth quarter period-end Mortgage Banker loans grew $500 million and then declined $250 million in the first quarter.
We believe our balances in this business could continue to be variable as mortgage rates stabilize and refinancing becomes a smaller component of the overall volume.
Turning to Slide 7 which shows the period-end loan balance picture.
Decreases in Commercial Real Estate Mortgage Banker and consumer loans were offset by broad-based increases in all other commercial loans resulting in a $333 million or 1% increase from the end of the fourth quarter 2011 to the end of the first quarter this year.
Period-end commercial loans increased 3% quarter-over-quarter.
We continue to believe the pace of decline in our real estate balances is slowing.
And as said before Mortgage Banker loan balances are difficult to predict.
However we do expect continued variability.
Importantly commitments increased for the third quarter in a row with a $1 billion increase this quarter on the heels of a $1.9 billion increase in the fourth quarter.
In fact commitments are at the highest level since the third quarter of 2009 with Middle Market Commercial Real Estate and Energy contributing the largest increases.
Because of this growth in commitments line utilization remains stable at 47.4%.
Also our pipeline increased significantly in the first quarter across almost all of our business lines with approximately 2/3 attributed to new business.
As you know we track our loan growth against the industry.
On Slide 8 you can see our average loans have been growing at a more rapid pace than the industry for the past few quarters.
We have benefited from the fact that we have a higher proportion of C&amp;I loans which have been growing at a relatively faster pace.
Also the Sterling acquisition which closed at the end of July last year has helped accelerate our growth.
The former Sterling footprint which was predominantly Houston San Antonio and Kerrville has seen loan growth of over 10% since the acquisition closed which is in line with the revenue synergy goal we announced last year.
Growth in Middle Market and Energy has more than offset the planned runoff in Commercial Real Estate.
C&amp;I loans are depicted by the chart on the right.
Remember that C&amp;I loans as defined by H.8 data do not include Mortgage Banker.
Our average C&amp;I loan growth was impacted by the decline in dealer outstands in the second and third quarters of last year mainly due to the Japanese supply chain disruption in our auto dealer lending business.
As this started to rebound through the fourth and first quarters our loan growth outpaced the industry.
In addition we believe that we benefit from our footprint which includes the faster growing market of Texas as well as our focus on Middle Market and expertise in several industries that are seeing accelerated growth such as Energy and Technology &amp; Life Sciences.
As shown on Slide 9 our deposits continued to grow in the first quarter across all major markets and most lines of business.
In fact period-end deposits grew $1.5 billion to $49.3 billion topping the record level we set in the fourth quarter.
Our average deposits increased $532 million quarter-over-quarter with over 85% of it coming from noninterest-bearing deposits.
We are pleased not only that a large portion of our deposit growth is noninterest bearing but also that the interest-bearing deposits grew even as we continued to carefully lower deposit pricing as shown by the yellow diamonds on the page.
Our cost of deposits today averages 26 basis points.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our net interest income was stable.
Quarter-over-quarter loan growth contributed about $7 million to the net interest income change and a decrease in our deposit costs added about $2 million.
These increases were partially offset by one less day in the quarter worth about $5 million and about a $5 million impact from a decrease in loan yields.
The decrease in loan yields was primarily driven by a mix shift in the loan portfolio with a decline in Commercial Real Estate loans and an increase in commercial loans.
We remain focused on holding spreads for new and renewed credit facilities.
However we have seen some spreads tighten consistent with improving credit risk migration.
Accretion of the purchase discount on the acquired Sterling loan portfolio was $25 million in the first quarter 2012 compared to $26 million in the fourth quarter.
Accretion should continue to trend downward as we expect to recognize total accretion of about $35 million to $45 million for the remainder of the year.
Just as a reminder our target level for the securities portfolio continues to be $9 billion heavily weighted and highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
Currently the average yield is 2.73% with a duration of 2.9 years.
As mentioned before our balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
Approximately 80% of our loans are floating rates and 70% of that is LIBOR based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
Therefore the impact of the low-rate environment has been absorbed and rate movement on the long end of the curve should have little impact on us.
We believe a 200-basis point annual increase in rates equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in approximately $165 million increase in net interest income which is an increase from the $150 million number given last quarter primarily due to strong noninterest-bearing deposit growth.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 11.
Credit quality continues to improve.
Net charge-offs in the quarter decreased $15 million to $45 million or 43 basis points of average loans.
Our growth charge-offs decreased $23 million to $62 million.
Recoveries were $17 million compared to the $25 million we had in the fourth quarter.
Over the last 8 quarters recoveries have averaged about $20 million per quarter substantially higher than the $7 million average per quarter for the 2 years prior to that.
As noted before the timing and size of recoveries is the most difficult credit metric to forecast.
Our provision for loan losses was relatively stable at $23 million reflecting the increase in loan balances improved overall credit quality and our prudent consistent reserving methodology.
We ended the quarter with a reserve ratio of 1.64%.
Our watch list and nonperforming loans also continued to trend downward with a slight uptick in the third quarter last year reflecting the addition of the Sterling loan portfolio.
Watch list loans decreased over $261 million to $4.2 billion at March 31.
Nonperforming loans decreased $31 million.
Foreclosed property remains low and in fact decreased $27 million or almost 30% to $67 million.
Slide 12 outlines the growth in noninterest income which grew 13% to $206 million in the first quarter 2012.
The $24 million increase included a $10 million or 6% growth in customer-driven fee income resulting from increases in service charges on deposit accounts investment banking fees fiduciary income and commercial lending fees.
We were also aided by the cross-sell successes we are having with the legacy Sterling footprint.
We believe we are well on the way to meeting the fee income goal we had set for Sterling as a part of the revenue synergies we had announced.
The growth in noninterest income is partially a result of annual service charges paid in the first quarter about $3 million as well as the implementation of our profit improvement revenue initiative.
We are pleased to be offsetting the headwinds which have resulted from regulatory reform such as reduced interchange fees.
Other changes in noninterest income include an increase of $4 million in gains from the redemption of auction rate securities and $5 million in charges incurred in the fourth quarter related to the Visa settlement.
Turning to Slide 13.
We continue to maintain good expense control.
Expenses this quarter benefited from the fact that we recorded no restructuring costs compared to $37 million in the fourth quarter.
As a reminder we still expect to incur about $40 million on restructuring expenses for the remainder of 2012 with about $5 million to $10 million in the second quarter.
Our careful expense management resulted in a decrease in net occupancy expense of $6 million and a decline in salaries expense of $4 million reflecting a 2% decrease in our workforce as shown on the slide.
This was partially offset by increases in litigation and legal expenses of $5 million and employee benefits expense of $8 million primarily due to an increase in pension expense.
Litigation and legal expenses increased primarily due to changes in loss estimates reflecting recent developments on certain litigation contingencies and are not expected to be repeated.
Turning to capital on Slide 14.
As Ralph mentioned the Federal Reserve completed its review of Comerica's 2012 capital plan last month.
The plan provides for up to $375 million in equity repurchases for the first quarter period ending March 13 2013.
Additionally our board will consider a 50% increase in Comerica's quarterly dividend next week.
This slide shows our payout ratio would have been 81% had we executed on the capital plan in the first quarter.
This is significantly higher than last year and the peer median.
We used first quarter estimates for our peers and assumed our capital plans were also in place in the first quarter.
There are only 2 peers that have active share repurchase programs and only 2 that have announced dividend increases.
We believe our payout relative to peers is a reflection of our strong capital position with 10.37% Tier 1 capital.
Importantly the quality of our capital ranks among the best in our peer group with common stock comprising over 99% of our Tier 1.
It will be 100% common after we redeem the remaining $25 million of Trust Preferred Securities outstanding which we intend to do in the second quarter.
At some conferences last month we communicated long-term goals for our efficiency ratio to be below 60% and return on assets to be above 1.3%.
On Slide 15 we have provided a walk-forward depicting how we expect to reach the return on asset goal.
Our average ROA over the past 20 years is about 1.2% and our goal is to surpass that level by growing revenues and keeping expenses as flat as possible over the longer term.
As you can see on this slide driving loan and fee growth while managing expenses are key drivers.
Importantly while we believe a modest increase in rates will be necessary to reach our goal we expect to well exceed our goal in a normal rate environment.
Finally our outlook.
Our expectation for full year 2012 compared to full year 2011 remains unchanged from what we outlined on our call in January with one exception.
We now expect the provision to decline from the full year 2011 level and instead be in line with the run rate from the first quarter.
This is consistent with our view that we should continue to see positive credit migration partially offset by moderate loan growth which combined is now expected to result in a modest reserve release.
In closing we are very pleased with our continued loan and deposit growth increased customer fee income tight expense management and solid credit performance.
Even in the current economic and regulatory environment we feel confident we can continue to deliver strong bottom line growth to our shareholders.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
This is Conor Fitzgerald for Erika.
Just on your guidance quickly for the outlook for average loans to increase moderately which like you said you didn't change.
Because 1Q '12 was pretty strong was there any pull-forward there? Or do you expect that kind of growth to taper off in the second half of 2012? Lars? Yes.
I think that was Conor and I apologize again for my laryngitis to everybody.
Obviously we had a very strong quarter in particular in commercial loan growth up 5% $1.2 billion.
The growth was very broad-based across a lot of our major markets most of our businesses.
So we feel very good about our momentum as we look forward into the second quarter but we are expecting moderate average growth for 2012 and that's given the backdrop of a continued weak economic environment.
And we also have to keep in mind that we do have some businesses with some variability Conor.
For example dealer.
Dealers tend to build their inventories in the spring and sell them down in the summer so there's some seasonality there.
And of course Mortgage Banking Finance.
You've seen there's some variability as mortgage rates continue to change.
That can certainly impact the outstandings of our portfolio as we head through the balance of the year.
But again I'd point out that we do have very nice momentum.
Commercial Real Estate commitment’s up.
Energy commitment’s up Middle Market -- and it's very broad-based so we feel good about the balance of the year.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions here.
But first of all in terms of mortgage banking I saw balances were down but did the higher mortgage banking fees contribute to the noninterest income this quarter? We did.
Yes.
Go ahead Ralph.
Go ahead Karen.
We did see fee increases in commercial lending increase.
And in Mortgage Banker that obviously contributed a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the other question on what is your outlook for reducing your excess liquidity going forward.
It looks like you were able to bring that down a bit this quarter.
We did bring it down.
It's now on ending under $3 billion on excess liquidity.
Clearly that is a factor of loan growth going forward.
Hard to give an outlook loan and deposit growth obviously.
Your next question will come from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Sorry to hurt you again here Lars but can you give us a little bit more color on the pickup in Mid-Market loan growth? I mean that's been an area that -- you haven't seen a big pickup in that yet.
You've seen more so large corporate but it's good to see the Mid Market move here and I just want to get some added color around what you're seeing there and the sustainability of that.
Yes.
No problem.
Glad to address it for you John.
First of all as I pointed out I think on the last conference call that as we look at our business Middle Market business it really includes kind of our general Middle Market as we break that out and a lot of our other kind of Middle Market industry groups.
We had nice broad-based growth last quarter.
And I'd also point out we've had 4 consecutive quarters now of commercial loan growth so we've had a continuation of nice momentum.
If you look specifically at the first quarter obviously we did have a nice quarter.
If you look at the average balances: our general Middle Market was up about $170 million which was really positive; our dealer business up over $400 million; Energy up $350; Technology &amp; Life Sciences was up $125 million; our international strategy which is really Middle Market-oriented that was up $80 million.
And yes large corporate that has U.S.
banking in that was up $180 million.
But on a relative basis that was a smaller component of a very broad-based Middle Market growth momentum for our company.
So we feel very good about kind of the momentum across the board John.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Then in terms of pricing I mean are you seeing the need to give a little bit more here in terms of pricing? And are you becoming a bit more accommodated to meet that demand? We're really not willing to trade off kind of volume for pricing.
And the fact of the matter is we're staying very focused on our relationship banking strategy that has a very disciplined relationship pricing model and it served us very well for a long period of time.
Now with that said we are seeing the most kind of competitive pricing at the larger end of the market but frankly the whole market overall is competitive today.
What we're trying to really focus on is spending more time in the marketplace.
We've enhanced kind of our sales focus business development focus investing in resources.
And I think if you spend more time with customers more time with prospects you put yourself in a position to have more opportunities and get paid for it and that's kind of the hallmark of Comerica.
And frankly we're seeing our new and renewed loan spreads largely holding even in today's environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Karen on the margin I know you don't really give guidance here.
But just given your color that you had said about the funding cost and what you're seeing on loan yields here is it fair to assume that this stability that we see here this quarter is sustainable and that this could be the margin floor or at least -- or maybe an inflection in the margin? Yes.
On our outlook on margin as you know we do talk about net interest income so I'll talk about it from that perspective.
We did say from a year-over-year period from 2011 to 2012 that we do expect net interest income to increase moderately.
And when we said that that was a reflection of assuming moderate loan growth accretion at a slightly higher level year-over-year and a full year of Sterling.
So we are still focused on that guidance.
Hopefully that's helpful.
Your next question will come from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On the buyback the pace seemed a little bit light here in the first quarter.
Just wondering do you expect to use the entire $375 million authorization through 1Q '13? And then how should we think about the pace? Is it now more stock-price focused? Or are you still targeting a percent of net income? Actually as you -- Stephen this is Ralph.
As we were talking about in the comments we were approved to do up to $375 million in the stock repurchase program and we started off with $33 million in the first quarter.
And we will move to use that as we move through the 5 quarters which first quarter being the first of that quarter and the first quarter of '13 being the last and it will accelerate as we move along.
And as you know at the current level with our stock price trading right at tangible book value that is a good investment for the shareholders longer term to execute our buyback at these levels as well as we mentioned that we will be talking at the board meeting here next week about raising the dividend 50% as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one question on this loan growth guidance.
Last quarter I think you guys said you expected 2% to 5% average growth I'd say.
I think Karen defined moderate.
Do you still see that as a reasonable range? Or are you a bit more optimistic given how strong the numbers came in this quarter? Lars? Yes.
I mean Karen can speak to kind of the 2012 kind of expectations but we continue to feel good about moderate average loan growth for the year.
With that said clearly commitment’s up $1 billion 4 consecutive quarters of commercial loan growth.
Our pipelines are up very significantly as are commitments to commit and it's very broad-based.
We -- you already heard some of the discussion about some of the recovery in Michigan and hopefully maybe the beginnings of it in California.
So with all that said we still continue to look at the year against a pretty weak economic environment with some variable businesses.
And I would add when we gave that guidance Steve we were focused on the fact that Mortgage Banker was likely to be variable.
Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> It's Jessica Ribner in place for Paul.
Sorry for that.
We just had a couple of questions on what you're seeing in C&amp;I.
And also I -- if you had said it I'm sorry but I had missed any guidance for merger charges going forward.
Karen do you want to take the restructuring charges for the quarter? Yes.
So on restructuring charges as you know we did not have any restructuring charges this quarter.
We do expect to have about $40 million of restructuring charges for the rest of the year with about $5 million to $10 million in the second quarter.
Lars? Sure.
Okay.
So Jessica I'll pick up the C&amp;I question for you.
As I shared earlier we are seeing very broad-based kind of listing activity.
I'd say it's -- there's nothing -- there's no particular business or industry that's carrying the day for us.
Obviously Energy a nice expansion as you would expect we're very well positioned in that industry.
And it continues to expand and we're working with our customers there but Technology &amp; Life Sciences continues to do very well.
Our customers there are expanding.
We continue to see that as a growth business for us.
But if you just look at our general Middle Market I think that we're seeing our customers more encouraged and maybe in a position to begin to make more decisions for investment in hiring than they have in the past.
They're still guarded relative to the past.
I'd also point out that x -- outside of C&amp;I we're beginning to feel a little bit more comfortable with Commercial Real Estate as the pace of declines decrease.
I referenced earlier that the growth in commitments about Commercial Real Estate have -- that was one of the key drivers and we're definitely seeing a slowing pace of decline.
So on a consolidated basis hoping that that will give us some additional strength in overall commercial loan growth.
I think one of the things Lars too that we're hearing from our people is especially the Middle Market and the manufacturing side are beginning to run out of capacity which means they're starting to invest for the future.
Yes.
As I mentioned they still tend to be guarded.
But in a number of industries you are beginning to see some investment and that's part of -- that's really what's the key driver in our general Middle Market that we're seeing.
There's expansion of plants equipment and we're seeing some hiring going on in particular industries.
And I think that bodes well for the future for us and for our markets.
Research Division</strong> And just one follow-up question.
Where do you see utilization rates going forward? Well as you may have seen in the deck the utilization rate was stable.
It was actually -- it was a good story though because of course in that formula the denominator moved faster than the numerator.
So it was one of those issues that we're having growth on both sides of the formula.
So I think it's a real positive.
It's hard to exactly peg where utilizations will be.
We're just hoping that we continue to see usage levels increase and if this interest in investing in businesses in Middle Market continues and frankly that we continue to grow with our customers and continue to move market share which I'm convinced that we're doing today.
Yes.
As we mentioned earlier the commitments were up $1 billion and the utilization was actually consistent at the 47 I think .4% [ph].
Correct.
Correct.
Yes.
The next question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Placet from Matt's team.
Just a follow-up on the topic of capital and share buybacks.
I guess given your announced share buyback plan and outlook for continued loan growth where do guys see your capital ratios trending through the year? And can you remind us if you have a target capital ratio or at least a level where you wouldn't want to go below? Karen you want to...
Sure.
In terms of target capital ratio that is something that we would -- we have done in the past and would like to get back to.
But until the capital rules are clear very difficult for us to be giving a target capital out there.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Okay.
And then well just in terms of how we should think about your capital ratios trending through the year if we assume loan growth continues and if we assume that you guys execute on your entire share buyback plan what does that mean for your capital ratios? Yes.
Obviously our -- for uses of capital we like loan growth.
So should we see robust loan growth you can see that capital come down slightly.
It's very difficult to predict though so it's not something that we try to predict.
That would be good to see see loan growth even better than we expected and use the capital for leveraging the loan growth which is profitability over the long term and return over the long term.
And that will always be balanced as we have in the past.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So with that said if loan growth does come in better than expected this year should we expect maybe reduced buybacks than what you guys announced? I think at the current level of what we're forecasting I don't expect that.
If loan -- it would have to be very robust to put us in that position.
And like Karen said we have to come to a conclusion on what the capital guidelines are going to be going forward and then what cushion we would put into that as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And if I could just get a follow-up just on your comments on reserve release from here.
I guess as we look at your reserves to loans already at 1.6% and with an outlook for continued loan growth I guess is it possible that you draw down reserves too much this year? And maybe again if loan growth comes in better than expected you could actually see some modest reserve build next year? John do you want to take that? Sure.
As you know it's not quite as simple as just having a target for a reserve level.
We do have a very rigorous methodology which we've been using for over 10 years.
That includes reviewing every sizable problem loan every quarter and that methodology has served us well in up and down cycles.
The average carrying value of our non-accrual loans for example is 60%.
If you look at our $704 million reserve on the ALLL at the end of the quarter it's almost 4x the annualized first quarter net charge-off run rate.
So we feel we are pretty well reserved and going forward we're going to follow the methodology.
Reserve levels will vary as charge-offs and problem loans decline but increase as the portfolio grows as well.
Your next question will come from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Commercial Real Estate MTLs ticked up a little bit at 1Q '12 and I'm wondering if you could provide us some commentary around kind of that trend and also how underlying early-stage delinquencies in both classified assets trended within our Commercial Real Estate if you have the data.
John? Yes.
A little color on Commercial Real Estate.
Frankly Craig I'm feeling pretty good about the trends in the Commercial Real Estate portfolio.
It's -- the credit metrics in Commercial Real Estate have improved dramatically over the last 10 quarters or so and they continue to improve.
It is possible to have a slight variability from quarter-to-quarter and that's what we saw in the first quarter.
But the overall momentum is still really improving and it improves across the board.
Past dues nonperformers inflow it's all going in the right direction with a little variability as you saw in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just on the securities portfolio.
I know you guys use 200 basis points commonly to kind of look at your net interest income on a scenario basis in terms of a parallel shift.
But if you take in the same 200 basis point parallel shift and you run it through your securities portfolio do you know roughly what it does to your duration of 2.9 in terms of duration extension? Karen? Can you repeat the question please? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So you guys use 200 basis points.
You referenced on the call in the K in terms of an interest rate scenario and what the impact is net interest income in terms of your earnings power.
And if you take that same 200 basis points and instead you look at the impact to the duration of the securities portfolio which right now is 2.9 do you know what that extends to? It would increase it to over 4 likely somewhere between 4 and 5.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Foran with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> This is I think about some of these deal impacts and modeling them out for the rest of the year.
So you gave enough guidance that we can kind of back into quarterly run rates.
But is the integration expense simply timing of discrete projects you have in place? Or is there something that's going better than you had planned in the integration? And I guess really where I'm going is the back half of the year implied is like $15 million to $20 million and obviously that's your best estimate right now.
But what's the degree of confidence around that back half of the year integration expense? And is there a risk that it comes in lower as it did in the first quarter? Yes.
On integration we do have confidence.
The rest of the integration to be done right now is really around our leases for real estate and our properties and so that's why it's timed and back-half loaded.
We do feel confident in that estimate.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess the same kind of question on the accretable yield.
The $25 million in the guidance implies it steps down by about half for the rest of the year.
Was there just kind of one or a handful of discrete recoveries that drew that higher in the first quarter? Or is there -- and I guess the background for the question would be a lot of the banks that did deals have kind of had a steady stream of non-accretable difference steadily reclassified to accretable and so kind of the accretion lasts much longer and higher than expected.
Is there any kind of that kind of theme developing in the book? Or is it really just timing of a couple of recoveries in the first quarter? It's mostly just timing.
We did see a little bit more accretion this quarter than expected mainly due to obviously prepays on deals that we were refinancing.
We do have about a little less than $100 million left in our accretion to go from here and we do feel fairly confident with our guidance of $35 million to $45 million for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> The last one for me I mean just kind of Mortgage Banker versus Dealer Floor Plan one normalizing down one normalizing up.
I mean I guess my dummy math has always been just take them both back to where they were kind of in 2010 and '11 and that would put Dealer Floor Plan at $3.5 billion to the $4 billion range mortgage in the $500 million to $1 billion and imply the 2 portfolios combined need to come down a bit.
But at the same time I guess there's been a lot of disarray in the wholesale mortgage funding channel.
It seems like you guys might have a share story that goes beyond just volumes when we look at these balances.
And so I know it's impossible to say the normalized level of a Mortgage Banker is exactly x but I guess is it too harsh to take it back to 2010 and '11 levels? Or is that still kind of where it should trend over time as mortgage activity normalizes? Lars do you want to take that? Yes.
First of all I guess there's 2 points there.
I can quickly speak to first Mortgage Banking Finance and then Dealer.
In Mortgage Banking Finance 2 key drivers that we're seeing in terms of the variability in the outstandings of that business.
One is clearly mortgage rates.
That drives volumes and clearly impacts the outstandings in our portfolio and we did expect and do expect that there'd be some moderation if rates pull back this year.
So trying to determine the exact balances in that portfolio would be challenging.
I think you've just kind of look at it through that lens.
But one of the things I want to underscore there has been a lot of change in the industry and there is no question about it that we have been moving market share.
A lot of disruption we've been in this industry a long time.
We've got a terrific reputation a solid source of financing and the businesses continues to perform really outstanding for us.
And frankly our cross-sell to those customers has really been kind of leading in terms of our industry groups.
In terms of our Dealer portfolio very difficult to tell where those balances will be.
Obviously we’re very pleased to see sales units up over $14 million.
To the degree that that grows was as we hit through the balance of the year that could certainly positively impact us but I'd keep in mind too that the industry does have seasonality in it as I spoke to earlier.
Your next question will come from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Sorry Lars to keep having you talk there but was curious if there was anything that affected the Energy balances at the end of the quarter.
Obviously growth wasn't as strong as the average for the quarter.
And then also was curious Karen -- I didn't quite hear if I missed it.
Was there any change to what was defined as moderately increasing on the loan growth of 2% to 5%? Lars do you want to start? Sure.
Let me speak first to Energy.
None of our portfolios follow exactly the averages and endpoints.
There's variation there.
But something to keep in mind I think with Energy obviously we had nice growth on an average basis of $350 million.
The endpoints clearly are up in the $80 million range.
You would also see in our noninterest income that we had a really strong quarter in terms of bond economics where we're working with our customers into bringing debt capital solutions to them.
So there is some variation.
There's a windows in the bond markets and our customers do recap from time to time.
So you see some variation but I think overall our customers are stable.
They're growing and I think it's going to be a good business for us with nice noninterest income associated with hedging and accessing the bond market.
So there was no particular event that was driving that? No particular event.
And then on the question about moderate loan growth.
There was no change in our definition of 2% to 5% on moderate loan growth.
And while we are pleased with our pipeline that is a full-year 2011 to full-year 2012 forecast and we put it out there with -- keeping in mind the economic backdrop and the fact that we do expect variability in our Mortgage Banker business.
Your next question will come from the line of Terry McAvoy with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> A question for Karen.
The efficiency improvement revenue enhancement program that was announced I believe after third quarter earnings with the goal of $100 million any sort of kind of status where are we now? And I guess specifically is that built into maybe the fee income trends that we saw in the first quarter reflecting any changes that were made as part of that program? Yes.
Just to remind people on our profit improvement program that we talked about last fall that was $100 million improvement in profit improvement driven by both expense and revenue focus 2/3 expense and 1/3 revenue.
That plan is very much on track.
It is something that we monitor and talk about monthly at the executive level.
There are over 350 projects that make up that profit improvement plan.
We are tracking them to completion and yes it is built into our outlook and on both fee income and on expenses.
Research Division</strong> Just one other question.
As I look at your 3 core markets and loan growth the Midwest region had the slowest amount of growth which I find a little surprising given what your economic activity index for the state continues to report each month.
Is that a reflection of losing market share? Or are you holding your own? Or maybe is it just that your runoff of Commercial Real Estate is a little bit more pronounced in the Midwest than in Michigan that's maybe hurting the bottom line balances? Lars? Yes.
The Midwest and Michigan in particular obviously is seeing some recovery.
We are seeing some Commercial Real Estate projects that kind of run off.
So that does impact us in that market but we've got a very solid book of business there.
We continue to move some market share I think there pick up some new customers.
But most of all we're seeing some growth with some existing customers but I don't think there's any big story there other than a nice steady increase in activity in that market.
Your next question will come from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> When you talk to your C&amp;I loan clients about their investment plans how are they thinking about the trade-off between using the cash on their balance sheets to fund their investing versus borrowing to fund their CapEx? Sure.
It's interesting.
We continue to get record levels of deposits.
In fact this particular quarter noninterest-bearing demand deposits were the big driver.
Those are relationship deposits primarily driven by businesses.
It's interesting.
We're seeing a pickup in investments CapEx hiring working capital and yet our customers tend to be carrying more liquidity than we've seen in the past.
I'm not sure if it's a paradigm kind of shift maybe a more cautious position but we clearly see this as different than prior cycles and it's clearly benefiting us from a deposit growth perspective.
I think that's true both with the consumer as well as the business side.
People are being more cautious in talking to various -- of our customers are holding more liquidity as Lars was saying.
Yes we're even seeing that in small business Ralph so it's -- will be kind of across the board.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> And when you talk about taking market share do you have a sense of how much market share you're taking from other banks versus non-bank competitors such as the capital markets? Unfortunately in commercial corporate banking there's not a good index for that.
So what I'm always looking at is how the overall markets are growing and how we're growing relative to them in the spaces that we serve and we know and I feel very good.
Like I've mentioned 4 consecutive of quarters of nice commercial loan growth.
The last 2 have been very robust.
So I feel very confident that we're outpacing the markets.
But I would tell you we're not changing our strategies.
It's not a result of us changing what our markets are our businesses.
I think that what we're doing is we're reallocating resources.
We're creating more accountability.
We're spending more time in the market the customers as well as prospects and I think that's serving us well.
You next question will come from the line of Justin Maurer with Lord Abbett.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question on the -- I've talked about mortgage.
Does HARP help that business at all? Or is that largely done just kind of through the existing larger bank servers and such? Or should you guys potentially see any benefit from that? Yes.
Justin the HARP volume has not really impacted our customers in Mortgage Banking Finance.
Our customers are primarily focused on really more the prime mortgage market.
So it has not had a significant impact on our volumes.
Market share gains and favorable mortgage rates have been the key drivers.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Let me give Lars a rest for at least a couple of seconds and ask Karen a couple of quick questions.
If I calculate your all-in cost of deposits including noninterest-bearing deposits those -- looks like those were down about 2 basis points quarter-over-quarter to 16 basis points.
You mentioned that the -- that it was 26 basis points for the interest-bearing deposits.
How much lower do you think you can drive those from the current levels? Yes.
We are monitoring our cost of deposits at a very granular level and we focus on it every month.
So because of our keen focus we will continue to find opportunities.
I'm not sure though that those opportunities will continue to add up to something meaningful at the total average deposit cost level.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I'm presuming your net interest income guidance includes the effect of the drops TARP repayment? It does.
TARP repayment is built into our guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And then just one final quick question.
The commercial mortgage loan yields are up about 80 basis point year-over-year.
They're up a little bit less than 20 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Can you give a little color as to what's driving that? Lars? Yes.
No problem.
I feel a lot better than I sound.
I think a significant impact to that is the fact that the majority activity that we're seeing is in footprint urban market-oriented multifamily projects construction projects very well capitalized.
Obviously that's a -- tends to be a fee-rich kind of opportunity for the company and I think that that's having a very positive impact on us.
I think that that will also help us once we begin to see drawdowns on those facilities just in terms of overall growth in the Commercial Real Estate portfolio.
We are also aided in that portfolio by accretion from the Sterling loan discount on the Commercial Real Estate loans coming off.
That's true.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian (sic) [Ryan] Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups from earlier questions.
You guys reiterated moderately higher net interest income year-over-year although 1/2 last year excluding Sterling.
So I just -- I appreciate we'll be up moderately but how do we think about the run rate for the rest of the year relative to 1Q? I think given your guidance that accretion will be coming down is the expectation of a decline from here? Or can we see loan growth actually offset the accretion headwinds? Yes.
Clearly loan growth will be the key driver going forward.
We do as you said and as we guided expect accretion to be coming down.
So we are focused on loan growth being the driver.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Lars I have a sore throat too so I'll try to make this one quick.
But I understand you guys are taking share in the Mortgage Banking area and HARP isn't really impacting.
But I'm just trying to understand we look at industry volumes we've seen apps up each of the last 2 quarters and I understand there could be differences in terms of timing but I guess I'm just trying to understand.
Your balances were down quarter-over-quarter.
Can you just give us a sense of what actually drove the balances down relative to what we see in the rest of the industry? Well some of the headlines Brian are being driven by the HARP volumes overall but we did expect that we would see some declines in the first quarter.
If you look at the averages it was only down $50 million.
It was down $250 million in terms of end points.
So it kind of tracked about what we had expected.
Volumes overall for the mortgage companies that we bank which are very much a prime mortgage-oriented market did decline some.
I will tell you that the percentage of purchase volumes did increase which I think was a positive for us in that business.
It's going to be driven though largely by mortgage interest rate changes throughout the balance of the year.
I think that'll be a big driver for us.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question for Karen.
First on the fee income you guys have talked about a good solid start to the year.
I guess what I'm trying to figure out is within the other noninterest income it was $29 million.
And I know you talked about certain things within the investment banking and other sort of items.
Maybe the bigger question just on the $206 million what is sort of a more recurring run rate out of that number? Because if I annualize that number it gets to be significantly higher than the $792 million they had for the full year of 2011.
So it seemed if you're keeping your guidance the same should we think that the next -- the rest of the year should be a lower level of fee income versus this first quarter? Yes.
On our noninterest income I think it's important -- on the 6% increase in customer-related fees that we talked about that was a $10 million increase.
Important to note that $3 million of that approximately is driven by an annual increase in service charges so that would not be repeated for the rest of the year.
Also on noninterest income we did have securities gains which we don't build into our forecast when we give the outlook.
Those are very difficult to predict.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
And then one other question for you Karen on the securities portfolio.
You say that the target is for a $9 billion target on the MBS portfolio.
It's around $9.5 billion right now I guess.
What’s the quarterly cash flows coming off of that portfolio? In case the loan growth does slow down is that something that would just build back in taxes liquidity? Yes.
Currently right now in our securities portfolio we are reinvesting our prepayments.
Those are averaging around $850 million to $900 million a quarter.
We expect that to continue.
The $9 billion target is still our target but included in the balance sheet number is some unrealized gains from our mark-to-market of that portfolio.
So that's why you see it above $9.5 billion -- at approximately $9.5 billion right now.
We do also -- while we're not market timers we do try to as we reinvest those prepaid hit the market when we can have some better yields and so that's why you see variability in that target balance number.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And actually Lars sorry I got one more question for you.
On the syndicated credit book it looks like that was up about $300 million in the first quarter.
Maybe you can kind of give some guidance.
And is it sort of across those key portfolios of National Dealer Service Energy and the Middle Market? Is that where we saw the growth in the syndicated books? Yes.
Brian that's a pretty good description but I would say it was very much weighted towards general Middle Market.
We had a lot of activity in the fourth quarter kind of coming into the first quarter with just kind of core Middle Market companies that we had good activity on.
Your next question will come from Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on M&amp;A.
You're about 9 months out from the Sterling deal.
Obviously you have a buyback in place and probably you're going to increase the dividend here.
Any updated thoughts on M&amp;A activity and kind of what you're seeing in your opportunities going forward? I think as I said before I feel very comfortable with our footprint today and where we are.
And if you remember when we announced Sterling that was a very strategic move for us because it put us into Houston and San Antonio as well as Kerrville.
As things come up we -- we're always looking but from the standpoint of expansion today it would have to fit and be at an appropriate price to expand in those markets where we are.
Your next question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Karen a couple of follow-up questions.
You mentioned confidence in both the M&amp;A cost the rest of the year and also the accretable yield.
In terms of your confidence is your confidence that those are the numbers that are going to be actual or that you're confident that you can beat those numbers going forward in terms of M&amp;A expense and accretable yield? So I think you're talking -- when you say M&amp;A expense you're talking about the restructuring charges.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We've given a range for that guidance of $5 million to $10 million next quarter.
Hard to tell you where it's going to be within that range.
We've also said that we expect about $40 million for the rest of the year.
Again there's a plus or minus there more likely a minus than a plus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when you look at things in a vacuum given some of the comments on the accretable yield and the restructuring cost in the second quarter I'm looking from first quarter to second quarter is it roughly about a $0.10 headwind given the fact that accretable yield could be down $12 million to $15 million and the M&amp;A expense could be up $5 million to $10 million versus first quarter? Yes.
Clearly there is a headwind from accretion coming down and restructuring charges going up next quarter.
Your next question comes from Sean Ryan [ph] with Endava Global Research [ph].
I just had a question about the securities portfolio just with the duration creeping out a little bit more this quarter.
Just wondering how you're thinking about that and if -- I'm not sure you're comfortable with this level.
Is there some point beyond which you don't want to go? Should we expect to see it continue to creep out a bit more? We want in our securities portfolio to obviously be in highly liquid highly rated securities.
We are in that.
It's mostly invested in mortgage-backed securities which are highly liquid.
Yes the duration did creep out a little bit but not much moved from 2.7 last quarter to 2.9 this quarter.
We are -- we do have robust prepays on that portfolio as we talked about averaging between $850 million and $900 million per quarter.
We are continuing to reinvest those prepays.
Should we see robust loan growth and our -- with our deposit growth we will obviously not continue to reinvest those prepays.
So hopefully that answers your question.
We've not changed the strategy is really what you're saying.
Yes strategy remains the same.
Your next question will come from Jeff Davis with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> My questions have been have been answered.
Your next question will come from Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for you.
So I just noticed on the strong pipelines 2/3 coming from new business.
I know that's up from last quarter and I just kind of wanted to follow up like what are some of the key reasons or some of the key drivers why you're picking up share from the competition out there? Lars? Yes.
Well you are accurate.
2/3 of the pipeline today is new business opportunities for Comerica.
I'd like to be able to make it easy and point to one particular business but I can't do that.
It's very broad-based.
It's not broad-based just across our businesses.
It's broad-based across our major markets also.
So that would -- I think it gives us good momentum as we head into the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
No it definitely definitely looks strong.
And then just looking on Page 28 of the slide deck focusing on the strong deposit growth up 6% on the Specialty business side just curious to get a little bit more color there just given how strong that has been.
Karen? Yes.
We continue to see deposit growth across most of our businesses and our markets.
The Specialty business deposit growth has been driven by businesses like our Technology &amp; Life Sciences business.
Research Division</strong> So basically is there any reason why we shouldn't see these kind of trends continue as you continue to book these new customers and take market share? Or it sounds like as long as this momentum continues then these result -- type of results can continue as well.
Is that fair? And I think because we drive full relationships with our customers when we are capturing new customers we are focused on gaining their transaction account deposit.
So yes from that perspective of new customer gain we should expect to see increased deposit.
Your next question will come from Jon Arfstrom from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry to prolong this call but I just have one question for you Ralph.
In terms of Michigan the legacy Michigan versus today curious your view as to what's changed and what's possible.
I guess a little background.
The reason I ask is it's been stable to a drag in that market for a long time really 5 years maybe even 10 years and it's pretty obvious to me that things have changed for the better.
And I'm just curious what you think is possible longer term in that market and whether or not it's possible that it can start to keep pace with the rest of the franchise in terms of growth.
I think as I mentioned earlier in talking about our activity index there it has bounced back extremely well.
It's broad-based and we're seeing expansion not just in the auto industry but now more broad-based.
And as I look at Robert Dye who's our Chief Economist and his projections he's looking for GDP to increase significantly better than the national average going forward.
So I think things are moving in the right direction.
We have a lot of very good customers and clients there.
We're seeing expansion start to happen.
And as was mentioned earlier capacity is running out which is a good news meaning as in the auto industry that Lars was talking about with auto sales at the $14 million -- I'm sorry the 14 million unit level that expansion is accelerating.
So I feel very good about what's happening in Michigan today as do our colleagues there and it's a very important market for us today and going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Reynolds with Wunderlich Securities.
Research Division</strong> All my questions have been answered by now.
And your next question will come from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I just have one quick question.
On your kind of slide deck talked about your long-term ROA goal of 1.3%.
Obviously interest rates is a big piece of that but you did point out that the loan growth assumption of 5% to 6% is pretty meaningful.
I assume that that's 5% to 6% on an annualized basis and not just aggregate from here.
So what does that -- what would that translate to without knowing kind of the time line you're looking at here on this target in terms of the kind of loan-to-earning asset mix? Obviously that mix becomes a big part of achieving that goal.
Karen? Yes.
Sure.
Yes the loan growth there -- this is a long-term goal so that loan growth is a long-term number but it is annualized.
So when we think about the loan-to-deposit ratio which I think is what your question is we do -- it's hard -- it's very difficult to predict deposits.
And so we didn't build that much into the equation but what we did build into the equation is the interest rate that we would earn as you can see on the chart.
We don't need to get to a normalized rate environment which we would define as Fed funds and LIBOR which moves in tandem with Fed funds typically to be around 3.5% to reach our goal.
Research Division</strong> Well I guess -- if I just ask a follow-up to that I guess what I was really asking is not so much loan-to-deposit mix but as you looked at your kind of earning asset asked at what right now is 75% loans and 25% non-loan earning assets.
What does that have to get to to drive you towards that 1.3% number? We are focused on loan growth on -- over the long term much more than overall asset growth.
So we would expect that a better growth in our mix between loans versus the rest of the earning assets would skew more heavily toward loans.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Babb for any closing remarks.
Well thank you all for your interest and being on the call today.
We appreciate it and I hope everyone has a good day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Carmen.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our second quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
In that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in this release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within the presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported second quarter 2012 earnings per share of $0.73 or $144 million an 11% increase from the first quarter.
Our results reflect our focus on the bottom line in this slow-growing national economy.
Turning to Slide #4 in further highlights loans continued to grow with average loans up $959 million or 2% compared to the first quarter primarily reflecting an increase of $1.2 billion or 5% in commercial loans.
This was the eighth consecutive quarter of average commercial loan growth resulting in a 20% year-over-year increase including our acquisition of Sterling Bank shares last July.
The increase in average commercial loans in the second quarter was broad-based with increases across nearly all of our businesses.
Deposits continued to grow in the second quarter.
We had record deposits of $49.4 billion at June 30 2012 with an increase in average deposits of $368 million primarily driven by an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
Excluding the decline in accretion net interest income was stable.
Non-interest income increased $5 million to $211 million including a $3 million increase in customer-driven fee income.
We maintained our tight control of expenses with decreases in several categories.
Credit quality continued to be strong.
The provision for credit losses decreased $3 million to $19 million.
Our capital position remains a source of strength to support our future growth.
We repurchased 2.9 million shares under our share repurchase program in the second quarter.
In April our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend 50% to $0.15 per share.
The combined share buyback and dividend returned 81% of second quarter net income to shareholders.
In addition we have reviewed the Basel III regulatory capital framework and believe that on a fully phased-in pro forma basis we are well above the proposed capital levels.
Turning to Slide 5 in our corporate news Comerica Bank ranked highly in the 2012 American Banker/Reputation Institute Survey of the reputations of 30 large banks.
Comerica ranks fourth overall and #1 in the categories of citizenship and governance.
According to the consumer survey Comerica had the second largest positive gain in reputation from a year ago and was 1 of only 2 banks that placed in the top 5 of nearly every survey category.
And on Slide 6 a new Census Bureau report shows the cities with the largest growth.
Comerica has a presence in 9 of the top 15: Houston San Antonio Austin Los Angeles Dallas Phoenix San Diego Fort Worth and San Jose.
We believe population growth drives economic growth and that we are well positioned in these growing cities.
Turning to our key markets we had 38% average loan growth year-over-year in Texas including our acquisition of Sterling.
Our growth has been broad-based with increases in almost every business line.
We are also investing resources in Texas in Technology &amp; Life Sciences Environmental Services and Mortgage Banker Finance.
In his most recent Texas Economic Activity Index our Chief Economist Robert Dye stated that Texas drilling activity remains strong with the state's energy sector driving job gains.
The energy and manufacturing sectors are boosting the demand for services providing a broad basis for ongoing economic growth.
Average loans were relatively stable year-over-year in our Midwest market which is primarily Michigan.
The rate of growth in the Michigan economy has slowed into mid-2012 after being lifted by the rebounding auto industry in 2011.
A softer U.S.
economy through mid-year 2012 will likely dampen further gains in auto sales and production for the second half of 2012.
However with ample pent-up demand and high affordability auto sales are expected to hold up near a 14-million unit pace this summer and that will support ongoing moderate growth in the Michigan economy.
We had average loan growth of 7% year-over-year in our Western market which is primarily California with increases in National Dealer Services Global Corporate Banking Technology &amp; Life Sciences and Entertainment as well as notable growth in Middle Market the last 2 quarters.
Our most recent California Economic Activity Index showed an expansion in that state's economy driven by gains in the high-tech sector which includes many of our Technology &amp; Life Sciences customers.
However California job growth is below the national average and state and municipal fiscal conditions remain challenging.
In summary our loan and deposit growth solid credit performance and tight expense management reflect our focus on the bottom line.
Our capital position remains solid and we continue to be active capital managers.
Our consistent conservative relationship-focused approach to banking is making a positive difference for us and our customers.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 7.
As Ralph mentioned total average loan growth was 2% or $959 million quarter-over-quarter as shown on the left-hand side of the slide.
On the right-hand side you can see commercial loans drove the increase up 5% or $1.2 billion as a result of growth in many lines of business including National Dealer Services Global Corporate Banking Middle Market Banking and Energy.
The green part of the bar shows that on average Mortgage Banker loans were essentially unchanged.
However as in the past there was significant variability in the balances in the quarter.
In fact in the last week of the quarter Mortgage Banker loans grew approximately $500 million.
Importantly our commercial loan growth was partially offset by a decrease of $252 million or 2% in average commercial mortgage and real estate construction loans.
Turning to Slide 8.
Total commitments increased for the fourth quarter in a row with a $636 million increase in the second quarter.
Energy Mortgage Banker Finance Technology &amp; Life Sciences and National Dealer Services contributed the largest increases.
With the growth in outstandings outpacing the increase in commitments in the second quarter our line utilization increased to 48.8%.
Also our pipeline remains strong in the second quarter with increases in many business lines and approximately 60% attributed to new business.
As shown on Slide 9 our deposits continue to grow and we're at an all-time high.
Our average deposits increased $368 million quarter-over-quarter with $491 million coming from noninterest-bearing deposits.
The Western market drove the increase with the largest contribution from Technology &amp; Life Sciences and the Financial Services division.
Additionally we were pleased that we were able to lower deposit pricing by another basis point as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
However as stated before we believe we are at or very near the floor for deposit rates.
Our loan-to-deposit ratio stood at 89% on June 30.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our net interest income was stable excluding the $7 million decline in accretion of the purchased discount on the acquired Sterling loan portfolio.
Accretion should continue to trend downward as we expect to recognize total accretion of about $25 million -- $20 million to $25 million for the remainder of the year.
As you know there are many moving pieces in net interest income.
Quarter-over-quarter our increase in average loans provided an $8 million benefit but was partially offset by a $4 million negative impact from lower loan yields excluding accretion.
While we remain focused on holding spreads for new and renewed credit facilities a continued shift in our loan portfolio mix drove the yields' decrease.
This was largely due to the decrease in Commercial Real Estate loans and the increase in lower-yielding higher credit quality commercial loans.
In addition to loan volumes and yields the mortgage-backed investment securities portfolio had a $5 million negative impact on net interest income.
I'll discuss that further when we get to the next slide.
It's important to reiterate the fact that a continuation of the low rate environment is not a further negative for us as the impact from falling rates has mostly already been absorbed.
We continually update our interest rate sensitivity and our current update reflects the fact that approximately 85% of our loans are floating rate up from our previously reported level of 80%.
Of our loans that are floating rates 75% are LIBOR-based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
Therefore rate movement on both the short and long end of the curve should have little impact on us given the floating rate predominance in our loan book and the relatively small size of our securities portfolio.
Importantly our asset-sensitive balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
We believe a 200 basis point annual increase in rates equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in approximately $160 million increase in net interest income.
Loans with rate floors consist of less than 10% of our portfolio and therefore will not be a major drag on revenue expansion as rates rise.
Slide 11 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
Interest earned on this portfolio decreased $5 million primarily a result of accelerated premium amortization of $3 million which is faster forecasted prepaid fees on the portfolio.
In addition lower reinvestment yields and a small decrease in the size of the portfolio had a $2 million impact on the interest earned in the second quarter.
At June 30 the remaining net unamortized premium was about $115 million or just over 1% of the portfolio balance.
The average duration on the portfolio remains low at 2.7 years.
The average yield is 2.66% excluding the impact from the accelerated premium amortization which equates to about 11 basis points.
Our target level for the securities portfolio continues to be $9 billion so we continue to reinvest the prepayments which were about $750 million in the second quarter.
While current reinvestment rates for 15-year MBS are in the 1.7% to 1.8% range we do try to invest as opportunistically as possible within our parameters to maximize yield minimize present premium and maintain a short duration.
We expect that the prepayments will continue to be about $750 million to $900 million per quarter for the remainder of the year.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 12 credit quality was strong.
Net charge-offs remained relatively low at $45 million or 42 basis points of average loans.
Our provision for credit losses of $19 million was a $3 million decline from the first quarter.
While overall credit quality continues to improve charge-offs are approaching normalized levels.
Our watch list and non-performing loans continue to trend downward after a slight uptick in the third quarter last year reflecting the addition of the Sterling loan portfolio.
Watch list loans decreased $371 million to $3.8 billion or less than 9% of total loans.
Non-performing loans decreased $109 million and we are now at the lowest level seen since 2008.
Foreclosed property remains stable and very low at $67 million.
Finally we received the annual Shared National Credit or SNC exam results at the end of June.
They are reflected in our results and were in line with our expectations.
Slide 13 outlines the growth in non-interest income which was $211 million up $5 million over the first quarter.
Continued growth in customer-driven fee income of $3 million resulted primarily from increased customer derivative income which was partially offset by a decrease in service charges on deposit accounts.
We are seeing the success of our profit improvement revenue initiatives which are assisting us in offsetting the headwinds that resulted from regulatory reform.
Other changes in non-interest income include $5 million for an annual incentive payment from our third-party credit card provider and a $3 million increase in net income from principal investing in warrants.
Finally deferred compensation asset returns decreased $7 million in the second quarter.
They are completely offset by a decrease in deferred compensation plan expense in non-interest expenses.
Turning to Slide 14.
We continue to maintain good expense control.
Expenses declined $16 million to $433 million.
Salaries expense declined $12 million reflecting stock grants of $5 million booked in the first quarter and $7 million in lower deferred compensation expense as mentioned previously.
In addition annual merit increases were offset by a 2% decrease in our workforce as shown on the bottom left section of the slide.
We had $8 million in restructuring costs in the second quarter related to the acquisition of Sterling which closed last July.
We now expect to incur about $25 million to $30 million in merger and restructuring expenses for the remainder of 2012 primarily related to real estate optimization which will occur in the third quarter.
Our careful expense management resulted in reductions in several other categories including a decrease of $4 million in foreclosed property expenses as well as smaller decreases in occupancy software and equipment.
Litigation and legal expenses decreased $3 million but remained somewhat elevated due to the changes in loss estimates reflecting recent developments on certain litigation contingencies.
Moving to Slide 15 in capital as you can see on the left side of the slide our capital is strong and we have robust capital generation in the quarter.
Therefore we have excess capital available which we are returning to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase.
On the right-hand side of the slide we have outlined the primary effects from the Basel III capital framework.
Last month the Federal Reserve Bank issued a notice of proposed rulemaking related to Basel III capital standards for the United States.
These rules have been published for comment and are not yet final.
Proposals narrow the definition of capital increased the minimum levels of required capital introduced capital buffers and increased the risk weights for various asset classes.
We have reviewed the proposal and even under the new stricter definition on a fully phased-in pro forma basis Comerica is currently estimated to exceed the standards for well-capitalized banks.
It's calculated according to the proposed rules today.
Our Tier 1 capital ratio is estimated to be between 9.3% and 9.4% comfortably above the new 8.5% regulatory standard which will be phased in over the next 7 years.
We continue to monitor the regulatory environment and assess its implication on capital as the rules are finalized.
Turning to shareholder payout on Slide 16 as Ralph mentioned we repurchased 2.9 million shares under our share repurchase program in the second quarter.
And when combined with the shares repurchased in the first quarter we have completed $121 million of our $375 million capital plan.
As a reminder the Federal Reserve concluded its review of Comerica's 2012 capital plan in March.
The plan provides for up to $375 million in equity repurchases for the 5-quarter period ending March 31 2013.
In April our Board of Directors increased our quarterly cash dividend by 50% to $0.15 per share.
The share buyback plus the dividend resulted in a shareholder payout of 81% of second quarter net income above our 10-year historical average of 77% prior to the downturn.
Finally our outlook.
We have obviously benefited from good loan growth in the first half of the year.
As a result based on average loans for full year 2011 compared to full year 2012 we now expect growth of 5% to 6% which is slightly more than we had previously guided.
While our loan growth so far this year has been strong and broad-based we have also continued to benefit from our expertise in a couple of industries which could see some variability going forward.
For example our Mortgage Banker business has grown along with the robust mortgage refinance volume.
We still expect those balances to moderate over the next couple of quarters as mortgage origination volumes are forecasted to slow.
For example the Mortgage Bankers Association is forecasting mortgage originations to fall almost 25% in the second half of the year.
Also we anticipate National Dealer Services loans will experience the normal seasonal decline as dealers reduced inventories in anticipation of the new model year.
In addition we expect Commercial Real Estate loans to continue to decline but at a slower pace.
Finally the current economic outlook does bear a demand for new loans and we intend to continue to exercise [Audio Gap] relationship pricing discipline.
On net interest income we are narrowing our outlook at the higher-end of the previous range for growth of 3% to 5%.
We expect that higher loan volume will continue to be offset by a decline in yields.
As I mentioned earlier securities yields have been declining and loan yields have been impacted by a mix shift in the portfolio and improved asset quality.
We expect our credit expenses to decline from last year's level albeit at a slower pace as we approach normal historical levels.
And we expect credit quality trends in our portfolio to remain positive which will be partially offset by loan growth as  the result -- and result in a continued reserve release.
Therefore we expect to see the provision and net charge-offs at or near the second quarter levels for the remainder of the year.
Our net interest income we are revising our relatively stable outlook to 1% to 2% growth over last year's levels as we are more than offsetting the significant regulatory headwind.
The non-interest expense outlook is unchanged with the expectation for it to be relatively stable plus or minus 1% compared to last year as we continue to maintain tight control of expenses.
As far as the tax rate we expect a rate of about 26% for the full year.
With regards to our synergy expectations for the Sterling acquisition we continue to be on course to deliver the loan and non-interest income growth we previously announced.
The former Sterling footprint which was predominantly Houston San Antonio and Kerrville has already seen loan growth of over 10% and we believe we are well on our way to meeting the 15% fee increase goal since the acquisition closed.
In closing we are very pleased with our continued loan and deposit growth increased customer fee income tight expense management and solid credit performance.
In the current interest rate economic and regulatory environment we remain keenly focused on the bottom line.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Don Jon Arfstrom.
LLC Research Division</strong> A question for you on Commercial Real Estate.
Karen you talked a little bit about declining but at a slower pace.
Can you give us a little more color as to what you're seeing there? It's obviously the one area of your balance sheet that continues to be a bit of a drag? Can we ask Lars to comment on that.
Lars? Right.
Hey Don yes let me talk about that just for a second.
As we have previously shared we do see continued moderation in those balances over the next quarter or 2 throughout the balance of the year.
We're continuing to see our customer base access the long-term kind of permanent markets and move some of their assets there and that clearly is putting some downward pressure on that portfolio.
But on the flip side I would -- I tell you I'm very encouraged as we've shared in previous calls.
We've had some very nice activity volumes that is consistent with our existing strategy which we have not changed.
It's very much Don a footprint urban market oriented portfolio strategy.
We're working with experienced developers many that we've gone through the crisis with and they're in very good condition.
We're seeing a lot of multi-family opportunities very well capitalized in California and in Texas.
So I think that we're going to begin to see the benefits of those construction loans that are very well capitalized as we head into next year but we would expect some moderation in those balances throughout the balance of the year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Karen just a question for you.
What are you expecting on the pace on the buyback? It looks like you still have about $250 million left.
I'm just curious if something -- this is something you expect to spread over the next 3 quarters or accelerate it a bit? You should expect it to spread over the quarters.
We don't claim to be market timers on anything including share repurchase and so we are in the market every day that we can be repurchasing shares.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask just given the strong loan growth that you did have in a couple of key businesses this quarter I guess I thought that growth that you were implying would be a little stronger going forward and I realize you're concerned somewhat about the mortgage warehouse possibly having some decline.
Are you seeing -- I guess the number that you gave last quarter on commitments to commit can you give us that? I missed it if you gave it.
And then just can you talk maybe more about the pipeline in terms of the Middle Market large corporate et cetera? Sure.
Lars? Yes I'd be glad to take that Ralph.
Hey Brett first of all I don't believe in the prior quarter we shared the commitments to commit.
We did give a little bit of guidance into our overall commitments which through this past quarter it was the fourth consecutive quarter of commitment increases up $636 million.
So I think that was really good.
That was building on about $1 billion of expansion in our 2 overall commitments in the first quarter.
For this quarter it was really driven by Dealer Energy TLS MBF and a number of businesses.
The overall though as we look at the balance of the year the loan growth opportunities for us yes we see we were up in commercial loans $1.2 billion roughly or 5% as Ralph pointed out about a 20% annualized growth rate which has been a nice.
Our Dealer business has obviously benefited that was up 13% quarter-over-quarter Global Corporate Banking Middle Market which was great to see California really impacted that and in particular northern California having a positive impact and Energy.
So all of those were some nice tailwinds that we had expected.
And we're doing well I think in those segments.
I would say though as we look to the balance of the year it's important to keep in mind as I shared just a minute ago we do expect some moderation in Commercial Real Estate balances at least for the balance of this year.
Also 2 of our businesses with unique variability characteristics.
First Mortgage Banking Finance which at least the Mortgage Banking Association's forecast would lead us to expect the balances in that portfolio would moderate here over the next 2 quarters.
And then I think the other key component of that would be Dealer which we had previously shared Brett that's a seasonal business.
We do see inventories clear during the summer getting ready for new models to come in so nothing unusual there.
One last footnote I've been spending a lot of time in the markets with customers prospects and it's pretty clear to me there's a rising sense of kind of uncertainty though given the fiscal cliff political environment there's a lot going on.
I think there's people that are becoming more reticent about making investment so all of those would factor into I think our thinking for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the follow-up I wanted to ask was the guidance -- would the loan guidance that you have for average balances imply slightly lower end-of-period balances in the spread revenue guidance essentially? I know you don't want to give margin guidance explicitly but it assumes that the margin would be under some additional pressure.
Question there is just on is it going to be on the securities portfolio or do you also continue to see any pressure on loan portfolios going forward? Are you seeing -- do you expect more pressure on the loan portfolio yields I guess is the easiest way to ask it.
Yes.
First of all I think it's good news in terms of loan spreads.
We've gone through a period of crisis and then a lot of competitive pressures on pricing on loans obviously as banks have become much more active in the marketplace.
You may have seen the first -- excuse me the second quarter Fed survey that outlined that loan spreads had compressed kind of at record levels since 1986.
So it's a competitive market.
For us we have largely held our loan spreads and I think that's good news.
And frankly I would expect that to continue.
Our value proposition our relationship-focused approach I think is being well received in the marketplace.
And I would just add to that on loan yields that in our overall portfolio we're obviously seeing higher-yielding Commercial Real Estate assets come off the books both higher credit quality but lower-yielding Middle Market type loans coming on the books which has impacted our loan yields so far this year and we think will continue.
And finally the benefit of accretion as we mentioned before will be slowing as we approach the end of the year.
Really a change of mix.
Your next question comes from Steve Scinicariello.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up a little bit on the mix shift going on in that portfolio and just kind of obviously know the trends of the Middle Market have been strong and you wanted to emphasize the Commercial Real Estate but just kind of trying to gauge kind of the extent to which that you see that continuing going forward and kind of how much pressure that could mean for loan yields? Do you think the mix shift at the similar pace that we saw this quarter could continue or maybe start to slow down as we start to see some of the pipeline in the CRE start to materialize? Now just before Lars I would just say that the biggest impact is the accretion on the loan yields.
So you should make sure you focus on that.
We had $25 million approximately of accretion the prior 3 quarters.
We had $18 million this quarter and we expect $20 million to $25 million for the rest of the year.
And I think just to underline what Lars was saying earlier we expect that the Commercial Real Estate will start to what I will call plateau for the end of the year and that then mix shift will slow from a higher rate environment to what we would focus on being our commercial C&amp;I lending which is at this point higher credit and also lower yield from that standpoint.
Lars do you want to add anything to that? No I think that's well said.
There is -- our expectation is that Commercial Real Estate hopefully as we head into '13 will begin to show some different growth kind of characteristics.
But clearly we are continuing to stay very focused on our Middle Market businesses that I think are very well positioned and stable.
Our Dealer business our Energy business well positioned.
Technology &amp; Life  Sciences general Middle Market and I'd underscore too it's been a while since we've really seen the good core of Middle Market banking lift in California and that's very substantial for us.
We continue to see nice lift in Texas.
And so I would say our portfolio trends should continue with hopefully a moderation and a decline in the Commercial Real Estate component.
Research Division</strong> Much in the net interest income guidance certainly applies -- implies a similar or even slightly better loan growth run rate and I think you said you felt pretty good that even to the extent you see some modest on the yield pressure as the shift continues and whatnot you still feel very confident that you should be able to kind -- to grow through it I guess is the question.
Yes yes.
I think we've shared that there's a couple of businesses in the short term with some variability but we're not changing our strategy.
It's being very well received.
We're paid a premium at Comerica for our value proposition.
And frankly I think in the marketplace today what I am seeing is that business owners partners executives are looking more and more for the relationship-focused banking model that Comerica can successfully deliver and get paid for.
Research Division</strong> Great great.
And then just last any reason why we shouldn't expect to see the full amount of the buyback executed? We don't predict the future on buybacks.
The next question comes from Matthew O'Connor.
Research Division</strong> There's been a couple of banks including yourself that have said the impact of the low rate environment is mostly reflected in your balance sheet.
And obviously you're a little bit different in that most of your loans are priced off the shorter term part of the curve.
But I guess while I look at the securities book including for you you're adding new securities with yields that are 75 to 100 basis points lower and I just got to think there is still some more drag from that.
So I do want to follow up on the comment that you think the bulk of the impact of the low rate environment is already in the NIM.
Yes I think Matt what I said was the bulk.
Clearly we do continue to have a securities portfolio which is relatively small as a percentage of our assets that does have prepays that we're reinvesting at current market rates as they prepay.
And so we do expect and that's part of our net interest income outlook that the reinvestment rates will remain at about current yields which are very low.
And so we do expect some impact from that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the premium amortization I know you guys tend to be pretty conservative in how you account for that and it seems like you try to do a little forward-looking view on the write-down that you took this quarter? That's correct.
On the securities portfolio the premium amortization is a full forward-looking view.
Research Division</strong> Okay so if rates stayed at these levels then you wouldn't expect any additional hits in the third quarter? That is correct.
If rates stayed at this level.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just separately if I may the Basel III a 90 to 100 basis point hit how much of that do you think you can mitigate over time? The rules are not yet final as we said so difficult for us to say how much we expect to be able to change.
I think the important thing is that we are well above the standardized levels at 8.5% which we don't need to be above until 2019.
So we are well ahead of the game.
And obviously once the rules are final we will be focused on not only adhering to the rules but also making sure we operate well within them.
Research Division</strong> And is it right that the increase in the RWAs is from the -- mostly from the unfunded commercial commitments that are I guess less than a year? Yes.
Yes.
So the RWA increase is mostly from unfunded commitments less than a year.
We also have some impact on low loan-to-value Commercial Real Estate development loans as well as deferred tax asset change in risk-weighted assets and the change in non-accrual loans and those kind of loans.
Research Division</strong> And just lastly as a follow-up on this do you have any thoughts -- is there any hope that the unfunded commitments of less than a year that the guidance might change there? Because obviously that could have implications for credit availability for a number of corporates out there I would think.
Yes.
I think we just have to wait and see what's going to happen but I think there will be changes in the rules as Karen was talking about in the future.
And as they evolve the good news is that we are ahead of it even today and that puts us in a very good position to adjust accordingly as the rules evolve.
Right.
And as the rules become final I think there might be changes in the overall industry and in overall customer appetite for things like unfunded commitment.
Yes.
The next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the reserve release here.
You're currently running reserves at about 1.5% of loans that's down about 10 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
Karen I think you mentioned that you're expecting continued reserve releases through the end of the year.
I guess I'm just trying to get a sense as to the size of those reserve releases over the next couple of quarters.
The reserve release this quarter was visibly higher than last quarter so I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of the pace of the reserve releases and where you might be comfortable reducing the reserves relative to outstanding loans.
John why don't you comment on that? Sure I'd be glad to.
There's really no target for where we want reserves to be.
So we'll continue to review every sizable problem loan every quarter.
We'll continue using our existing reserve methodology.
And right now our total reserve of $703 million is almost 4x our annualized charge-offs.
As you know going forward reserve levels for various charge-offs and problem loans decline but increases we have growth in the portfolio.
In the near term as you mentioned we did say that charge-offs and provisions would be very close in the third to fourth quarter to what they were in the second quarter and I would expect the reserve release which overall was $26 million in the second quarter $23 million in the first quarter to be very much in that range as we go forward through the next couple of quarters.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then just a bigger picture question perhaps for Ralph.
Now that we have the NPR for Basel III out in the public domain as it were are you sensing that there may be better opportunities for M&amp;A within your markets now that the banks that you compete with and some of the smaller banks have a better sense of what those rules are going to be? I think everybody is at this point doing what we are.
They're watching and waiting for the rules to evolve before decisions are made on those types of items.
As always we're focused on the communities we serve and the opportunities that may or may not arise in those communities.
LLC Research Division</strong> And one last quick question was there any effect in this quarter from the recently announced interchange settlement? We don't comment specifically on specific cases but what I would say is we do believe that we are adequately reserved for all litigation-related matters.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner from Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> I realize it's almost insignificant but I noticed the NPLs for the home equity portfolio almost doubled from $9 million to $16 million and there is usually some seasonality in that but I don't know if you could add any color around that.
Sure.
John? Yes I'd be glad to.
We've got about a $1.6 billion portfolio in home equity loans.
It's 3% of the total portfolio to your point.
About $900 million of that is from Michigan.
It's all self-originated.
We've never used brokers nor have we done subprime and our average home equity line of credit balance by the way is about $45 000.
However delinquency rates and charge-off rates have consistently been better than industry statistics and the relatively modest increase in NPLs that you saw this quarter were results of some changes in our policies where we got a little more conservative on when we move things to nonaccrual.
So we basically moved to a 90-day standard as opposed to 120 to 180 which I think the whole industry is moving toward a 90-day standard.
That's why you saw the increase.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that makes a lot of sense.
And then also not to sort of beat the dead horse on the NIM or NII guidance just when I look at it from a high level your loan growth is coming in strong your raised your loan growth guidance your NII changes essentially similar to where it was.
Your guidance is basically unchanged.
Your accretion income is really -- expectations for accretion is unchanged.
So given the higher loan growth that assumes the NIM's down and I understand that some of the mix shift.
I guess my question is embedded in your thoughts or your guidance.
Are you assuming that you will continue to maintain the loan spreads that you're having now? Or is there some conservatism in there that further rate pressure would ensue? Yes we are very focused on full relationship pricing with our customers in maintaining pricing and spreads on new and renewed loans as much as we can.
So that is built into our thought process.
I think what you would see is you'll see that continual shift in the mix...
That's correct.
Which is built-in.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if there was additional competitive pressures that could be a little bit of downside or -- and if you maintain it that's basically where guidance is right now? Right.
The next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify in the accretion numbers you threw out there.
There was $25 million I believe in the second quarter run rate and you expect this to fall to $20 million to $25 million for the entire second half so kind of $10 million to $13 million per quarter.
Is that right? That's correct and you should expect it to be decreasing each quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then if you think about the $25 million in the second quarter where was the contribution of that? Was it mostly from Commercial Real Estate and maybe a little bit from C&amp;I? Yes it's mostly from Commercial Real Estate and you're right just a little bit from C&amp;I.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well then if you look at your C&amp;I yield because I was wondering if there's anything in that number it only fell by about 4 basis points quarter-from-quarter and down to about $352 million.
I'm wondering when you think about the inflow of the kind of the new money yield there how quickly do you anticipate this should really decline over the next few quarters and what is that new money yield? Yes I don't think we comment specifically on spreads for loans because they vary by risk rating and by structure on the loans.
But what I would say on C&amp;I in general is we are working again to maintain pricing on all new and renewed business as much as we can.
And I think that's one of the reasons why you're seeing less of a decrease on the C&amp;I yield.
And that's true in the Commercial Real Estate sector as well.
Yes I was going to say Ralph yes that in Commercial Real Estate in particular we've got we have some great relationships some terrific projects that over the last year that we've been originating that I think are very fair spreads for the kind of value proposition.
We've been very reliable through the cycle.
Our developers know that and we're getting paid for it.
We -- whether it's Commercial Real Estate or it's our C&amp;I Middle Market focused businesses we have a very disciplined approach to relationship pricing and we're okay to take a pass on deals.
I mean we -- and we do it every day but it just means we have to spend more time in the market looking for the right kinds of opportunities the customers and prospects to get paid fairly.
I think we're doing that.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last question on the Mortgage Banker balance a year ago it was sitting at $600 million now it's at $1.5 billion.
I heard your commentary around kind of pressure.
Even if there is second half pressure what is the normal run rate the normal balance? And I know it moves around a lot but over the course of the cycle where -- what's kind of the average balance for this that we should think about? I'm sorry.
We have a new balance on Mortgage Banker Finance.
Yes.
Gosh that's really hard to peg because if you go back over the last few quarters you'll see that there was some very wide swings.
If you go back into the fourth quarter of last year and into the first quarter it would be hard to peg a number for you.
But I would just tell you that as we do look out over the balance of the year that we would expect that there would be some moderation in those balances.
I mean we've seen balances between quarters decline $0.5 billion or more.
But it can surprise you because as I think we've all been surprised that we've continued to have record low rates kind of quarter after quarter.
That's a key driver of the growth in that business.
But I also want to underscore one other very important point.
There's been a lot of changes in the mortgage industry over the last couple of years.
Comerica has been very stable very focused on this warehouse lending approach to really prime mortgage companies.
And that reputation has served us well we are clearly serving a lot more mortgage companies today than we were 1 year ago and we're cross-selling them.
And I think that that gives us a much broader base to work from as we move forward.
Yes that increase in market share I think as I've watched the kind of the ups and downs here recently is it's about $0.5 billion or so that will go up and down but that doesn't mean the mortgage market can't change and dry up for a longer period of time.
It really depends on where that's going as Lars mentioned about what was going on with the Mortgage Bankers Association and their prediction.
And then I just heard a commercial on rates are at a new all-time low and many brokers are out there selling those rates again for refinance.
So it -- a lot depends on what's happening in the market there.
Your next question comes from Ken Zerbe from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a little bit further on Mortgage Banking very briefly Karen did you say Mortgage Banker balances at very end of the second quarter were down $500 million or they were $500 million? They were up $500 million.
Research Division</strong> They were up $500 million.
Okay so from the 2 point when -- okay so it's up $500 million versus last quarter.
Got it.
Okay.
So then the growth -- I know you guys don't want to comment specifically on like C&amp;I loan growth guidance but when we think about that Mortgage Banking still very strong should we view the rest of C&amp;I? I'm looking at Page 7 here is also being up in the quarter or in the next quarter? Yes.
We do expect to continue to see growth in our C&amp;I portfolio and that's built into our overall loan expectation.
Research Division</strong> And that's excluding any impact for Mortgage Banking? Correct.
We actually expect Mortgage Banker to decline in the second half consistent with the Mortgage Banker Association Survey.
As well as our Dealer business which is seasonal moderation.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Mutascio from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Karen I wanted to go over my math in terms of net interest income.
Let's forget about the margin and accretable yields.
Let's get to the dollars.
If I look at the midpoint of your guidance of roughly 4% year-over-year net interest income growth and apply that to last year you get this year about $1.725 billion in net interest income.
Then I back out the roughly $880 million of net interest income you've earned so far in the first half this year.
That leaves you with roughly $845 million net interest income for the second half of this year or roughly $420 million to $425 million per quarter versus a $440 million run rate in the first half.
Is that an accurate assessment? Yes but what you need to make sure you take into account is the impact of lower accretion.
In each quarter again we expect $20 million to $25 million in accretion for the rest of the year and that is going to come at a declining pace each quarter.
And remember we had $26 million in the first quarter $18 million in the second quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I think that sounds like we're taking that in effect with your guidance so my point is in the second half of this year we're looking roughly at $420 million to $425 million net interest income line versus the $440 million line in the first half.
Yes.
And then I think you need to make sure you take into account the fact that our loan yields will -- should continue to be impacted by the mix shift in the portfolio as Commercial Real Estate loans come down and lower-yielding Middle Market loans come on the books.
And then we also do have the slight impact from our securities portfolio on the reinvestment rate on those yields.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner from D.
A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
You talked about some of the variability you expect in the mortgage business.
Just in terms of the Dealer Floor Plan business $2.5 billion or $2.4 billion at the end of the second quarter what's the magnitude of that seasonality that you might expect over the second half of the year? Lars? Okay yes I believe the overall Dealer Finance business was at $4.3 billion.
That was the average for the quarter for the whole business.
But it is a little bit difficult to tell and I'd be hard pressed to kind of give you a range there.
But given a stable environment of continuation of say 14 million units which is what we are hopeful for I would just say that you typically would end up with some moderation in maybe $0.5 billion or more.
But I'll tell you that can really vary depending upon a lot of circumstances.
I think that we saw that.
You can have the supply chain interruption you can have a lot of things that go on in there that can significantly impact that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Lars I was wondering if you could just give some commentary on the Small Business piece.
It was down a couple of hundred million dollars this quarter maybe just give us some thoughts on that.
Yes.
Yes it's a good question.
And obviously Small Business had took the brunt of I think this economic storm that we've seen.
I think our Small Business clients are probably feeling as guarded as any segment that we've got.
So they're reflecting a slow growth economy.
We are continuing to see the runoff of some term credits that may not exactly fit into our longer-term kind of strategy of growth of just kind of core C&amp;I and Small Business.
Our Small Business customers though our sense of it is they're continuing to delever and become more liquid so we're seeing that.
On the flipside I would tell you that our pipelines have continued to grow.
I think I shared that in the last quarter.
They continue to be very strong and in fact this past quarter was our best quarter of new loan production that we've had in at least a couple of years.
And I think that that bodes very well for us.
Your next question comes from Terry McEvoy from Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> A year ago this month you closed the Sterling deal.
Earlier in the call you talked about loan growth tracking expectations.
I guess my questions would be is it coming in the areas you expected it to be when you first announced that deal and how do you see that transaction being additive to Comerica going forward? The transaction is going very well and very much as we expected.
The team has come together well in the market especially in the Houston San Antonio Kerrville markets and I believe the latest number showed about a 10% increase in loans outstanding since the acquisition and we're very excited about that combination.
And the other synergies are on target as we expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the real estate optimization later this year are the cost saves of those events is that built into the 2012 outlook or will any cost saves be more visible next year in 2013? Our -- all of the cost saves are built into the outlook.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last question on the Wealth Management there was virtually no provision if I remember.
And you said something about decreasing in Private Banking in the Midwest markets.
Is that a conscious decision of Comerica? Or is that simply a function of the market itself decreasing? John? Yes it's not the intent of any strategy at all.
That' s just the way the numbers came out this quarter.
We intend to execute that business strongly across the country.
It's a very important business for us.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari.
Research Division</strong> Look there you've been given on the balance sheet growth and the spread income and sorry to beat you up again here on the margin but that implies about 5 to 10 basis points of margin compression by my math through the back half of this year.
Is that a fair level at least to think about? I know you don't give guidance but I just wanted to see in terms of magnitude if that's a fair range.
Yes.
Karen? Obviously we don't give guidance on our rate NIM because that can move around quite a bit and it also is dependent on the level of our excess deposits.
So I won't give guidance on that.
But I would focus on the guidance that we've given for net interest income and the impacts around that of lower accretion of the lower loan yields due to the mix shift of the impact on the mortgage banking backed securities which we talked about and of loan growth.
I would focus on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then separately the second quarter level for comp and benefit expense about $250 million in total I wanted to see if that is a pretty good run rate to stick with going forward or if you could expect some incremental volatility in that number outside of the Sterling impact? Yes.
No that is a pretty good number to look at going forward.
Your next question comes from Michael Rose from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to get a little bit of color on the increase in utilization rates.
I understand why it was up in part due to the growth outstripping the growth in commitments.
But as we sit here and look at kind of a maybe a slowdown in technology spending energy is under pressure how should we think about utilization rates and commitments going forward? Lars do you want to take that? Yes.
I'd be really glad to.
Obviously yes utilization rates were just math driven by overall Commercial or overall loan growth of $950 million.
Commercial loans up $1.2 billion and yet commitments way up a healthy $636 million now the math around that pushed our total utilization rates against commitments of 140 basis points to 48.8%.
The biggest contributors that drove that were Dealer Energy Technology &amp; Life Sciences Mortgage Banking Finance and such.
And so I'm not sure I would jump to any conclusions there around utilization rates and where that would be going in the future.
We're obviously glad to -- we were glad to see that.
But I couldn't point to one particular business that I think would particularly influence that going forward.
We're just going to continue to stay very focused on our Middle Market businesses which are the biggest part of our commitments and commitment growth.
And we're -- we feel very good about our long-term growth prospects of all of our Middle Market businesses and general Middle Market as I mentioned picking up in California.
I think Texas continuing will have impacts on that.
So I hope that's somewhat helpful to you though it's hard to guide you exactly where I think that will be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that is helpful.
And then as a follow-up when I kind of look at the net interest income in Texas even excluding the impact of the accretion I guess it implies that competitive pressures continue to take shape in Texas.
Can you kind of comment on what you're seeing out of maybe some of your larger competitors? Are they still being very competitive on rate and structure? Yes.
We are seeing a very competitive marketplace.
There is no question about it.
I would say from a geographic perspective the West Coast is the most competitive maybe Michigan Texas but really we're seeing good competition.
It's very competitive across all of our segments.
The good news of it is I think that our strategy is playing out very well.
It's being very very well received.
And in spite of that we're continuing to hold on our loan spreads.
We've done that for 2 quarters  in a row and I feel very bullish.
I think we've got the right businesses kind of in the right markets with a very talented bankers.
I think we've got some of the best bankers in the marketplace and you got to have them to execute kind of this relationship banking model that I think is being well-received  and driving some nice growth in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller from FBR.
Research Division</strong> A couple of real quick questions.
On your guidance for net noninterest expense up 1% does that include the $20 million to $25 million of merger expenses in the second half of the year? Yes it does.
It includes restructuring expenses.
Research Division</strong> So then next year you should have noninterest expense go down even further factoring out any type of growth metrics? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> And on the MBS portfolio I think you said your duration's around 2.5 to 3 years.
Is the new stuff you're adding on is that same duration mix? Yes it is.
When we focus on adding securities we're focused on keeping duration as low as possible while maximizing yield and keeping premium as low as possible.
So we have -- our 2.7% --  2.7 duration has been on the portfolio for a few quarters now.
Research Division</strong> And then just -- and then so when you're reinvesting the new for the runoff what type of yields are you getting for those for those securities today? Today we're getting yields between 1.7% and 1.8%.
Research Division</strong> And then did -- I don't know if you disclosed it but have you disclosed what type of CPR rates you have on the securities currently? We don't disclose that.
The next question comes from the line of Brian Klock from Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And really quick and I'm sorry if maybe this is answered already but I bounced on a couple of different things this morning.
And maybe this is a question for Lars the loan growth does seem like syndicated national credits that those balances increased about $0.5 billion or about half the total growth in C&amp;I this quarter if you take out the Mortgage Banker Finance.
So I guess maybe you can talk about that.
Is there opportunities that you're seeing because of what's going on in Europe the bigger European banks that have U.S.
operations that maybe you're seeing some better looks at deals because of that or maybe you can talk about the growth in that the SNC portfolio? Okay I'd be glad to -- 2 kind of issues that I'll try to cover first the European banks how they're linked.
We're seeing some opportunities there.
They were somewhat limited.
Some of the changes in the marketplace have been bulk purchases portfolios.
We're really spending our time building relationships rather than focus on buying credits.
That's kind of where we are at our best.
So I'd say that that is somewhat limited.
We've seen some opportunities with existing customers where we've been able to expand our relationships but we have pretty conservative hold limits.
And so we're going to stay in the box there and stick with the conservative strategy there.
As that relates to the Shared National Credit portfolio it was up by actually $478 million.
I think it's on Slide 20 23.
I think the important thing to point out is the Commercial loan growth for period end which is what you'd measure that against because the SNC number is period end was up $1.4 billion.
So you're talking about roughly $900 million in production that was non-Shared National Credit.
So it is by far the majority of our production.
But a couple of things I want to point out is we use Shared National Credit as simply a tool a very conservative tool to manage our risk exposure in industries and segments that we've been in a very long time we're very comfortable with and that we have very good asset quality profitability kind of metrics from.
In fact if you look at the Shared National Credit portfolio at our bank today the returns the asset quality of those credits really is consistent with the overall portfolio.
Last point I would make for you is we underwrite our Shared National Credits like we do any other credit.
There's no difference in standard there and we hold them to the same relationship banking pricing standards and frankly execution that we have of any other credit in our portfolio.
So we're very comfortable with it.
We're very comfortable with our lines of business but it simply complements some long-term businesses that we've been in.
Yes I would underline that relationship approach to Shared National Credits.
Some of our biggest relationships and meaning total banking relationships not just credit would fall under that category.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just one follow-up for John Killian.
John did you say earlier when you were talking about the provisions the guidance the overall guidance is that the provisions and charge-offs should be down year-over-year and trending down but did I hear you say that the third and fourth quarter provisions and charge-offs should be similar to the second quarter level? Yes you did Brian.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think at what point I guess maybe that's the thing is that if loan growth there is some expectation Karen that loan growth should be moderating in the second half of the year there's probably less pressure on needing to provision for the loan growth in the second half of the year.
Is that maybe the way to think about why that -- why the good loan growth that you had in the first half of this year I would expect provision to go up from that $19 million run rate in the second quarter but is that why we're kind of ...
Yes I think that's correct.
Obviously the key drivers of our overall reserve are loan growth and credit quality.
So yes your statement's correct.
Your next question comes from Jennifer Demba from SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the Energy portfolio you've had a lot of growth in that over the last year I know much of it probably related to Sterling.
Can you just talk about the composition of the portfolio whether most of it is Shared National Credit in nature and what kind of concentration you're comfortable with in terms of Energy loans to total loans over time? Lars? Yes Jennifer yes it's been obviously a business that we've been in a very long time a Texas-based company and we're very comfortable with it.
And frankly we developed I think a really nice reputation in the industry.
Today it represents somewhere around 5.5% or so of our overall loan portfolio so it's very manageable.
It was up 6% quarter-over-quarter the growth in it so we didn't have quite growth in it over the last quarter.
It is very clearly consistent with our relationship banking model.
We work very closely with management teams and sponsors that we worked with for a long period of time.
And frankly we get excellent ancillary business out of working with these management teams and companies because they value our long-term commitment to the industry.
If you look at the portfolio overall it's very much of a liquids kind of oriented portfolio towards our natural gas liquids and oil which is really where you want to be.
That's not a mistake.
The portfolio continues to have excellent performance characteristics in growth asset quality and profitability.
So we're very comfortable with where we are today.
We got a proven track record a robust credit policy that served us very very well.
And I would just remind you that back in the '90s we -- this portfolio went through $10 a barrel gas $1.70 natural gas.
It also made it through 2009 at $40 a barrel.
Yes at $40 a barrel yes did I say? Gas.
Yes.
At $10 in the '90s $40 a barrel in 2009 and frankly our performance has been excellent.
So we're very comfortable with where we are and with our strategy.
And we're going to continue to grow with our customers and we're going to stay very focused on our existing strategy no changes there.
But Jennifer you had mentioned in your question that you thought that much of the Energy growth was related to Sterling and I just want to let you know that Sterling did not have the robust industry expertise in Energy that Comerica has had for a long time.
So we wouldn't necessarily attribute that to Sterling.
What I would also say is you asked about the composition of SNC most of our Energy loans are SNC loans.
Yes and that is really a reflection of a very conservative approach to our hold limits in an industry that's very asset-intensive right.
Thanks Karen.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I just had one high-level question for you Ralph.
So if I take a step back if the Fed is on hold for the next 2 years or through 2014 I guess that implies to me that the outlook for your bank is that loan growth is getting better and that's balanced with the provision the credit leverage from improving credit moderating but that also implies that if the margin will continue to grind down and we don't know what's going to happen in terms of the CCAR process each year in terms of your ability to continue to increase capital return.
And I guess in that scenario as you look out over the next 2 years what do you think the other levers are that are available to you in terms of improving EPS in an environment that's difficult for that long? Is it to -- Matt's question M&amp;A would it be a special dividend or are there more expense leverage outside of -- it sounds like the base for next year on a core basis is $1.73 billion.
Is there something -- what else -- I mean or are you really saying "Look this rate issue is cyclical so we're not going to do something outside our comfort zone just because rates are low for another 2 years?" That's a good way to summarize in total.
We will stay with our philosophy and our strategy of growing in the markets where we are.
We think we're very well placed in building relationships for the longer term.
Now there are levers that we continue to look at all the time and that's expenses.
And I think we've set a record of doing that.
We look at expenses every year and making sure those are the right places for the right leverage.
We've been an active capital manager and we'll continue to be that within the rules and guidelines that are out there.
And as you know those aren't as we've talked about aren't set yet at this point in time.
So the strategy I believe and especially the strategy of the geographic expansion that we undertook several years ago and is now paying off in Texas and California and balancing out that geographic distribution is working very well and the growth is going to be as we talked about in the comments in the states where we are especially Texas and California.
And so I think we're very well positioned to weather through the storm that may be there or may not be there from that standpoint based on rates and whether there continue to be at a low level.
Your next question comes from Steven Alexopoulos from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question was for Lars.
Several quarters before we saw the positive turn in C&amp;I loan growth right.
You were able to telegraph this because you looked at the increase in commitments to commit.
I'm curious here with the economy softening when you look at this leading indicator are you starting to see a downturn or any softening in the C&amp;I coming? Right Steven.
Yes we've had -- we've had I guess now 8 conservative quarters of Commercial loan growth which has really been terrific and the last few has been very strong.
Our pipeline continues to look good.
I would just say though that at least from what I'm hearing in the marketplace and I've been spending a lot of time out there with customers and prospects is there is this growing sense of uncertainty and maybe a cooling of the economy that could impact I think business activity in the second half of the year.
But you mentioned the word telegraphing I would say this though I think that we're as well positioned in the marketplace today in our markets and our businesses as any franchise.
I mean going out into the marketplace today and talking about Comerica's story of reliability our size our products our strengths our capital position talking about our customer service commitments and our relationship banking model and then thirdly I think most importantly being able to take bankers out there that on the average our group managers have average tenure at Comerica of about 20 years our average relationship manager almost 10 years.
Those are the folks that execute our relationship banking model.
So I'm very encouraged about our businesses about our markets about our products and our growth prospects longer term for sure Steven.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I could follow up on that because I hear that you're very encouraged you're well-positioned you expect moderation in Mortgage Banker crit.
But I guess we all struggle because when you look at the average loan growth guidance right it implies $42 million $42.5 million for the full year your period-end loans I think were $44 million.
So it implies a pretty steep decline coming in the second half of the year.
Period-end might be down $2 billion looking at your guidance.
So I guess what I'm trying to reconcile is my math wrong or is your term moderation really implying a pretty steep decline in loans coming in the second half? Yes I would say on our outlook it is based on what we said the decline in Mortgage Banker Finance seasonality in Dealer overall decline in Commercial Real Estate continuing decline in Commercial Real Estate so it is against that backdrop as well as the backdrop of a not-so-robust economy out there and the fact that we intend to continue what we've been doing on maintaining our relationship pricing discipline.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
And maybe just a few quarters ago you talked about $100 million in annual profit improvement from revenue and expense initiatives.
How much of that $100 million has now been realized? And are you still on track for the full $100 million? Yes Steve we are on track to receive the profit improvement that we had planned for earlier in the year.
We do monitor and measure that at a very granular level every month and so we are comfortable with it.
In terms of timing we expected it to be spread fairly evenly across the quarters this year and that is still proving to be the case.
Research Division</strong> Karen could you share how much of that you've realized already? You know what we -- it's very difficult to track at that kind of level on how much we've realized already but it is spread evenly and so you can deduce it from there.
Your next question comes from Ken Usdin from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 really quick ones on fee income.
I'm just wondering can you just talk about what the drivers of fee income growth will be from here? What areas do you expect to lead that forward? Sure.
On fee income we do expect to see continued customer-driven fee income increases.
As we put in place as part of our profit improvement revenue initiatives this year a big focus on fees doing things like higher penetration on cross-sells ensuring that we actually collect fees and don't waive much in fees things like that.
So we do expect customer-driven fee increases to continue.
The other part of the noninterest income revenue are things that are variable and we don't necessarily expect to continue for the rest of the year things like gains on principal and investments investments and warrants gains on our auction rates securities portfolio and the $5 million in our annual incentive that we received this quarter on our credit card portfolio.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if I bring that on together and I wanted to ask you about the other income line because there's always a lot of the volatility stuff in other so what was outside of the bonus gain in there this quarter? What else was strong in there and kind of how do you expect that line to trend over the course of the year? We also had strong customer derivative income too which is part of the customer derivatives that I haven't mentioned they're  customer income that I haven't mentioned.
But in other what else is in that? It's really the gain on our principal and vesting warrants and our auction rate securities.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so when you think about it it's kind of like the same way people have been asking about NII can you -- do you expect fees to be able to grow from here? Or is it just that they'll be able to grow off of a decent comp from year-over-year? We do expect to be able to continue to increase customer-driven fees year-over-year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I meant from the current quarter.
I mean from the run rate.
And from the current quarter run rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then the volatility is just the pluses or minus underneath that.
Okay.
Great.
Your next question comes from Josh Levin from Citi.
Research Division</strong> So you obviously have very strong C&amp;I loan growth.
When you think about return on capital what's the all-in return on capital you're getting on the C&amp;I loans that you're making in the current environment? We don't disclose the returns that we're getting on each individual loan but what I will say is that we are very focused on overall relationship returns for each of our customers every time we price any product to them and those overall relationship return hurdles are fairly strong.
Both on economic return on equity as well as regulatory return on equity spreads among other things that are looked at on every credit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second question is sort of related.
Given how challenging this environment is for all banks is there a point at which you sort of consider shrinking the bank returning some capital to shareholders and then you can raise capital at some later point when the cycle ultimately turns? Is that even on the table at all or that's not even close to being on the table? No I think the focus is as we see things evolve we'll continue to be an active capital manager and returning the appropriate amount that we believe to our shareholders during any given year.
And as the rules get more finalized we'll be as we have in the past more open with what we think the current target for capital is in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo from CLSA.
Research Division</strong> Question so on the one hand you're raising guidance you're at the high-end of spread revenues loans are better than you thought.
And on the other hand you're signing a note of caution with slowing Mortgage Banking business National Dealer seasonally slower continued decline in Commercial Real Estate Midwest is flowing into the middle year uncertainty with your clients with the macro situation.
So my question is are you raising guidance really solely due to what you've seen in the first half of the year? Yes I would say that our guidance for the rest of the year is driven in large part to the strong performance that we've seen in the first half of this year.
The issue Mike as you know very well is when you look out for the rest of the year we have the election we have what's going on in the European sector as well as the slowing in the Asian sector and the fiscal cliff that is in the paper every day.
And that has caused us to be cautious while I think Lars said a while ago we had not really seen an effect at this point.
And we'll still be out there and looking for new business and new relationships as aggressively as we have in the past and making sure that we are leveraging our abilities to the best point for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Are you cautious partly because of what you're seeing from your customers however? Are you hearing or seeing this with their behavior? We are hearing from our customers.
But I would say also and I think we talked about it in the last call that capacity has gotten to be part of a factual situation where customers are beginning to borrow and having to invest in what I would call the short term in order to meet the demands that they have.
Our customers as Lars was talking about earlier are doing very well and have seen a very good turnaround in the last couple of years.
And so at this point as I mentioned earlier we've not seen that slowdown but there is a lot of caution that's being discussed and they're not going to reach to the what I would call more historical investing until they get certainty in what the rules are going to be going forward in the economy.
Research Division</strong> And the answer to the other question so are you forecasting loans to be down from period-end second quarter levels? We're not going to comment specifically other than what we've said in our guidance Mike that we do expect loans to moderate in certain areas like we've talked about.
We do expect continued growth in C&amp;I.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly you said you're asset-sensitive.
You've always been asset-sensitive.
I look at the decline in yield on the loans down 13 basis points this quarter the decline in yield on securities down 16 basis points this quarter and decline on deposits only 1 basis point.
But then that I hear your statement saying low rates should not be further negative for you guys.
And it's just a little surprising given the decline in the loan securities yields you said deposit rates are at a floor.
I mean you almost have a built-in excuse right? You can say it to anybody who expected rates to be this low for this long and you've always been asset-sensitive so you should be getting hurt by that.
But instead you say "Well it shouldn't really be a further negative for us." It just seems like you're putting your neck out on the line when you really don't need to.
What gives you this kind of surprising confidence? Yes I think what you need to take into account is that our overall relative exposure to the rate environment is low.
And when we say that comment that's what we are referring to.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I really want to understand this.
I want to understand this not only for you but for the industry that the pain is already done when you see the exposure in the rate environment.
I mean forever Comerica for decades Comerica has been core deposit funded for Commercial loans and it's natural that you're asset-sensitive.
So if rates are low you can't reprice those core deposits down forever and it sounds like you're at that point now and those loans and securities get repriced lower.
So I guess -- unless you're hedging and doing something else and I thought you said that the new yield on securities is 1.8%.
Versus the second quarter it was 2.6%.
So right there that's another 80 basis points on the securities portfolio.
So can you give me any other color as to how you get to that conclusion? Well first of all the securities portfolio the rate prior quarter was about 2% where we were reinvesting.
So it has come down but not 80 basis points closer to 20 to 30 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Would it been for -- the overall yield on securities is 2.6% in the second quarter? That's correct.
I thought you were talking about the reinvestment rate.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But that -- so that would just drag down your overall yield.
I'm just looking forecasting March.
I know you're not giving guidance on that but go ahead.
So on our securities portfolio yes we do have prepays every quarter.
We do expect those to be $750 million to $900 million per quarter and we are reinvesting those at low rates.
We currently do not have any hedges on our portfolio.
At some point in time in a better rate environment we do intend to put hedges back on the portfolio.
We had them in the past they have run out at this stage.
So that's our securities portfolio and our hedging strategy.
On the loan side 85% of our loans are floating rate and of that 75% are LIBOR-based and most of that is 30-day LIBOR.
So when we talk about the asset sensitivity in our -- on our business we are talking about the fact that we are mostly floating rate exposed mostly 30-day LIBOR exposed and the fact that the securities portfolio yes is reinvesting at lower rates but we've given you the amounts of those prepays that we expect going forward.
Research Division</strong> But -- last follow-up sorry the loan yields keep coming down though.
I mean they're down 13 basis points just last quarter.
Don't you expect that to go down also? Yes and we've talked about on loan yields the fact that there is a mix shift in our overall portfolio and that mix shift is the higher-yielding.
Commercial Real Estate loan is coming off the books and being replaced by lower yielding but better quality of loans coming on the books.
And so that is the  phenomenon in our overall loan portfolio yield.
At the same time you've got accretion impacting that yield which needs to be taken into account.
And then on loan yields for new and renewed business we are focused on maintaining spreads everywhere that we can.
And because we are focused on that the yield in our portfolio will come down less than it would have if we hadn't been very focused on the new and renewed pricing.
There are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Babb do you have any closing remarks? Well I would like to thank everyone for being on today and your interest in Comerica.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Matthew.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our third quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of the measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported third quarter 2012 earnings per share of $0.61 or $117 million compared to $0.73 or $144 million for the second quarter and $0.51 or $98 million for the third quarter of 2011.
Restructuring expenses related to the Sterling acquisition were $25 million or $0.08 per share in the third quarter compared to $8 million or $0.02 in the second quarter and $33 million or $0.11 in the third quarter of 2011.
Turning to Slide #4 and further highlights our customer relationship focus supported loan and deposit growth in the third quarter despite a slow growing national economy.
Average loans were up $369 million or 1% compared to the second quarter primarily reflecting an increase of $717 million or 3% in commercial loans.
This was the ninth consecutive quarter of average commercial loan growth resulting in more than a 20% year-over-year increase including our acquisition of Sterling in July 2011.
The increase in average commercial loans in the third quarter was primarily driven by increases in Mortgage Banker Finance Technology &amp; Life Sciences and Energy.
Our focus on faster growing markets and areas of expertise is making a positive difference for us.
Strong non-interest-bearing deposit growth continued in the third quarter.
We had record average deposits of $50 billion in the third quarter 2012 with an increase of $1 billion primarily driven by the increase in non-interest-bearing deposits.
The FDIC's annual deposit survey as of June 30 2012 recently made public shows that we have increased our deposit market share in Texas Michigan California and Arizona.
Net interest income declined slightly reflecting the expected continued shift in loan portfolio mix and decline in accretion as well as a decline in nonaccrual interest received and a leasing residual value adjustment.
Lower loan and securities portfolio yields were partially offset by increased loan volume.
Noninterest income decreased primarily due to a $10 million decrease in noncustomer-driven categories including net securities gains of $6 million and a $5 million annual incentive bonus from a third-party credit card processor both of which were received in the second quarter and not repeated in the third quarter.
In addition net income from principal investing and warrants declined $3 million.
We maintained our tight control of expenses in the third quarter.
Excluding the $17 million increase in restructuring charges related to our Sterling acquisition noninterest expenses were down $1 million.
Restructuring expenses related to the Sterling acquisition are substantially complete and in the third quarter were mostly a result of real estate optimization.
Credit quality continued to be strong in the third quarter with 39 basis points of net charge-offs and watch list loans at 8.3% of the total loan portfolio we are well within our historical normal range.
Our capital position remains a source of strength to support our growth.
We repurchased 2.9 million shares in the third quarter under our share repurchase program.
Combined with our dividend and in accordance with the capital plan approved earlier this year we returned $119 million to shareholders in the third quarter.
Our outlook for the full year 2012 is unchanged other than a slight increase in our expectation for average loan growth which is now for an increase of 7% to 8% over full year 2011.
Turning to Slide 5 and some comments about our markets.
Average loans in Texas grew 1% including a 3% increase in commercial loans in the third quarter compared to the second and were up 19% from a year ago including our acquisition of Sterling in the third quarter of last year.
We saw loan growth in the third quarter in Energy Technology &amp; Life Sciences and Corporate.
Average deposits in Texas declined from the second quarter as we expected due to runoff in certain non-relationship deposits and as we adjusted Sterling legacy deposit pricing.
However deposits in Texas are up 11% from a year ago.
The Texas economy continues to be a growth leader consistently outperforming the national economy.
Overall job creation in Texas remains well above the national average and is supported by an active energy industry and strong manufacturing conditions both of which are supporting gains in the service sector.
Average loans in our Midwest market which is primarily Michigan decreased modestly compared to the second quarter.
Deposits in the Midwest market increased 2% in the third quarter and were up 6% from a year ago with increases noted in Middle Market Private Banking Corporate and Small Business.
The economic recovery in Michigan is broadening and the state economy continues to improve at a moderate pace supported by strengthening auto sales.
We are optimistic about the continued improvement in Michigan's economy.
In our Western market which is primarily California average loans are up more than 2% compared to the second quarter and were up 11% from a year ago.
We saw loan growth in many areas in the third quarter including Technology &amp; Life Sciences National Dealer Services Private Banking and Corporate.
Average deposits in the Western market are up approximately up 6% compared to the second quarter and are up 17% from a year ago.
The California economy is showing more momentum in 2012 particularly in Northern California.
Job growth is improving and housing markets are looking firmer.
State fiscal conditions remain challenging and some local governments are also under financial strain.
We expect California's economy to continue to improve.
In closing we feel confident that our footprint and relationship banking strategy will assist us in growing even in this slowly improving national economy.
Given all of the political and economic headlines particularly about the looming fiscal cliff we expect our customers to continue to be cautious.
We are allocating resources to our faster growing markets and industries where we have considerable expertise.
We have demonstrated throughout the cycle that we can carefully manage expenses offsetting regulatory headwinds.
And our capital position remains strong.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6.
As Ralph mentioned total average loan growth was 1% or $369 million quarter-over-quarter as shown on the left-hand side of the slide.
On the right-hand side you can see commercial loans drove the increase up 3% or $717 million primarily due to growth in Mortgage Banker Finance Technology &amp; Life Sciences and Energy.
Period-end loans increased $202 million again driven by the commercial loan growth of $445 million with increases noted in most lines of business.
The green part of the bar shows Mortgage Banker average loan growing again this past quarter driven by continued positive trends in the refinance market as well as the market share gains we are making.
As we have said in the past Mortgage Banker outstanding can be volatile and should eventually decline as refinance volume slows.
While we continue to see growth in commercial loans some of this growth has been offset by a decrease of $344 million or 3% in average commercial mortgage and real estate construction loans.
The pace of decline is a reflection of property stabilizing and being refinanced in the end markets as well as the expected runoff of former Sterling real estate loans that don't fit our strategy.
Total commitment increased for the fifth quarter in a row with $1.2 billion increase in the third quarter.
We had commitment increases in every commercial business line led by Middle Market and Mortgage Banker resulting in a relatively stable utilization of 48.2%.
Also our pipeline remains strong in the third quarter with approximately 2/3 attributed to new business.
As shown on Slide 7 our deposits continue to grow and were at an all-time high.
Our average non-interest-bearing deposits increased $1.3 billion or 6.7% over the second quarter.
The growth was broad based with contributions from almost every business line.
We were able to lower deposit pricing by another basis point as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
While we continue to monitor and scrutinize deposit pricing we don't expect to continue the trend of lowering the overall cost.
Our loan-to-deposit ratio stood at 88% at September 30.
Slide 8 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
Interest earned on the MBS portfolio decreased $2 million from the second quarter due to lower reinvestment yields.
There was only a small amount of accelerated premium amortization recognized in the quarter.
While the current reinvestment rates for mortgage-backed securities are in the 1.5% range we do try to invest as opportunistically as possible within our investment parameters to maximize the yield minimize premium and maintain a short duration.
In fact we pre-purchase securities to replace fourth quarter runoff.
Therefore our MBS portfolio ended the quarter at about $10.1 billion.
In addition with continued strong deposit growth during the quarter we are managing the size of the portfolio in conjunction with our excess liquidity.
At September 30 the remaining net unamortized premium was about $105 million or just over 1% of the portfolio balance.
The average duration on the portfolio remains low at 2.7 years.
Prepayments were about $850 million in the third quarter and we expect prepayments will be between $850 million to $950 million in the fourth quarter a slight increase from our prior expectation in light of the impact of lower rates as a result of QE3 as well as the current size of the portfolio.
Turning to Slide 9 our net interest income declined $8 million in the third quarter.
Absent the impact of accretion it declined $5 million.
We've summarized in the table on the right the major moving pieces in the quarter.
I'll start with the first 2 items which are highlighted.
While we received some interest on nonaccrual loans every quarter in the second quarter it was unusually high driving a decline of $4 million which had a 3 basis point impact on the third quarter margin.
Also we had a $2 million adjustment to the residual value on 2 assets in our leasing portfolio which reduced the margin by 2 basis points.
Accretion for the purchased discount on the acquired Sterling loan portfolio declined $3 million in the quarter to $15 million decreasing the margin by 2 basis points.
As stated before accretion should continue to trend downward as we expect to recognize accretion of about $7 million to $9 million in the fourth quarter.
While we remain focused on holding spreads for new and renewed credit facilities the continued shift in our portfolio had a $6 million or 3 basis point impact on the net interest margin which I'll discuss further on the next slide.
This impact was partially offset by the $3 million benefit from the increase in average loans in the quarter.
As I already mentioned lower yields on the reinvestment of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio had a $2 million or 2 basis point negative impact.
In addition to lower deposit costs wholesale funding costs also declined as a result of maturities in the second quarter.
Those 2 combined led to a decrease of $2 million and provided a 1 basis point increase to the margin.
One additional day in the quarter added $4 million.
And finally average excess liquidity increased $697 million reducing the net interest margin by 3 basis points.
As we have stated before our asset-sensitive balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
We believe a 200 basis point annual increase in rates equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in over $170 million increase in net interest income.
Flipping to Slide 10.
As shown in the top left loan yields declined 13 basis points in total including 9 basis points resulting from the decline in accretion the decrease in nonaccrual interest received and the lease residual adjustment.
The rest 4 basis points of the decline can be attributed to mix shift in the loan portfolio include our higher yielding Commercial Real Estate loan being replaced by lower yielding commercial loans older fixed-rate loans maturing some of which are refinanced at current yields and positive credit migration.
The top right chart shows our proportion of fixed-rate loans has declined from 18% to 16% over the past year.
While this does impact us it is important to note that our fixed-rate loans as a percentage of total loans is the lowest among our peers and 75% of our floating rate loans are LIBOR based predominately 30-day LIBOR.
Therefore changes in LIBOR up or down particularly 30-day LIBOR have an impact on our yields.
In the bottom left chart positive credit migration is apparent in the declining proportion of the watch list loans and increasing proportion of higher quality loans.
Higher quality credit loans comprise 92% of the portfolio compared to 88% a year ago.
Generally the lower the credit risk the lower the yield on a loan.
Lastly the portfolio mix shift of decreasing Commercial Real Estate loans being replaced by commercial loans is reflected in the bottom right chart.
Commercial Real Estate loans tend to have higher yields than C&amp;I loans and C&amp;I loans now make up 62% of our portfolio compared to 55% a year ago.
It is important to note that we expected the impact on our yields from these mix shift factors will slow as the repricing and replacement of fixed-rate loans bottom Commercial Real Estate will turn at some point and we are well within our normal historical credit quality range.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 11.
Credit quality continued to be strong.
Net charge-offs remain low at $43 million or 39 basis points of average loans.
Our provision for credit losses was $22 million.
This was a small increase from the second quarter and reflects the variability you'd expect given the fact that our credit metrics are within normal historical ranges.
As shown on the right our watch list and nonperforming loans continue to trend downward.
Watch list loans decreased $182 million to $3.7 billion or 8.3% of total loans.
Nonperforming loans decreased $55 million.
We are now at the lowest level seen since 2008.
The carrying value of our nonaccrual loans is currently about 60% of the contractual value.
Foreclosed property also declined and remains very low at $63 million.
Our allowance to NPLs was 94%.
Slide 12 outlines noninterest income which decreased $14 million in the quarter with $10 million due to decreases in certain noncustomer-related categories.
As Ralph mentioned in the second quarter we recorded net securities gains and an incentive bonus received from our third-party credit card provider that were not repeated in the third quarter.
Also net income from principal investing and warrants which varies quarter-to-quarter declined $3 million.
These declines were partially offset by a $5 million decrease in deferred compensation asset returns which is completely offset in deferred compensation plan expense.
In addition customer-driven fees declined $4 million including a $3 million decrease in customer derivative income.
Almost all other customer fee income categories were relatively stable.
Turning to Slide 13 we continue to maintain good expense control.
Excluding restructuring costs expenses declined $1 million.
We had $25 million in restructuring costs in the third quarter related to the acquisition of Sterling which closed in July of 2011.
We expect restructuring charges related to the Sterling acquisition will be complete with final restructuring expenses of $1 million to $4 million in the fourth quarter.
We had a $3 million increase in salaries.
The increase was primarily due to a decrease -- to a -- was primarily due to a $5 million increase in deferred compensation which as I mentioned is completely offset in noninterest income.
Absent the impact from deferred compensation salaries expense would've been down driven by a $3 million decrease in executive incentives.
Our workforce was stable quarter-over-quarter and has decreased 7% over the past year including the headcount related to Sterling as shown on the bottom chart on the slide.
Other noninterest expense included a $5 million decrease in legal expenses.
Moving to Slide 14 and capital.
As Ralph mentioned we repurchased 2.9 million shares under our share repurchase program in the third quarter.
And when combined with the shares repurchased in the first 2 quarters we have completed $210 million of our $375 million capital plan put in place this past March.
As far as Basel III we continued to believe that under the proposed stricter capital and risk-weighted assets definition on a fully phased-in pro forma basis Comerica is currently estimated to exceed the standards for well-capitalized banks.
If calculated according to the proposed rules with the balance sheet as it stands today our Tier 1 Capital ratio is estimated to be comfortably above the new 8.5% regulatory standard which will be phased in over the next 7 years.
Finally turning to Slide 15 our outlook for the full year 2012 compared to 2011 has not changed other than a slight increase to our expectations for loan growth.
We expect average loans to grow 7% to 8%.
Our loan growth so far this year has been strong and broad based and we have benefited from our expertise in Mortgage Banker National Dealer Services and Energy.
Going forward we expect Commercial Real Estate loans to continue to decline and Mortgage Banker outstanding to eventually normalize in line with refinanced activity.
In addition the current uncertain economic environment does bear on demand for new loans and we intend to continue to exercise relationship pricing discipline.
As stated earlier on net interest income we expect accretion to be $7 million to $9 million in the fourth quarter down from $15 million in the third quarter and to continue to decline though at a slower pace each quarter until the remaining balance of about $60 million is depleted.
In addition to accretion we expect that the impact from the continued mix shift of the loan portfolio will slow as older fixed-rate loans mature and the decline in Commercial Real Estate ultimately turns.
On noninterest income and expense we will continue to work to offset the regulatory headwinds by seeking full customer relationships and maintaining expense control.
In closing we are pleased with our continued loan and deposit growth solid customer fee income generation tight expense management and strong credit performance.
In the current environment we remain keenly focused on the bottom line.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Curious if we look at the list of items impacting the margin on Slide 9 is the right way to think about pressure on the margin that the pressure from loan portfolio dynamics I know Karen you said that might abate a bit and the lower MBS yield which sounds like they might pick up because you prepurchased securities? Should that combined continue to put roughly this amount of pressure on the margin each quarter? Yes as I said you should think about the impact on the loan portfolio dynamics Steve as slowing over time because it's due to fixed-rate loans maturing and those contractual maturities will slow over time.
It's also due to the impact of the Commercial Real Estate and the improving credit quality.
And again both of those should slow.
On the securities yield that is obviously a factor of the overall rate environment.
And we will think about tactically prepurchasing to try to within our investment parameters to try to minimize that impact.
Research Division</strong> Karen could you just follow up and give us some color on the yield and duration that you're actually adding new securities today? Sure.
The yield is very similar to the overall portfolio yield.
As you can see even with the actions that we took this quarter the duration of the portfolio did not change still at 2.7 years.
And the yields under which we're purchasing today are around the 150 area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can I ask a follow-up question on that? Just to Ralph.
Ralph you communicated over the past couple of months and again on this call this expectation for loan growth to slow talking about uncertainty in the business community and fiscal cliff.
At this stage is this still chatter among your clients? Or are you starting to actually see this play out? I think in answer to your question customers are continuing to be cautious.
And while we did see growth it was slowing growth during the quarter.
And I think that's what you would expect given that a lot of these issues are going to come to fruition here in the next several months.
I mean you'll have the election you'll have the fiscal cliff and people are waiting to see what they think will happen.
Lars you've seen anything different? No Ralph.
I think that accurately kind of depicts what we're hearing from our customers.
An interesting I think metric though that we've got to look at is our customers are clearly getting healthier.
They're delevering they're building liquidity.
What Steve you may have picked up in the deck was we did see a very significant increase in commitments.
In fact those went up over $1.2 billion.
So the interesting thing is we're seeing activity levels.
And frankly we're seeing a lot of activity level in just general Middle Market.
They're just not borrowing.
They're not making the investments.
But frankly we are very encouraged to see that level of commitment rise.
I think that's underlying too with the level of deposits we're seeing with the new record deposits and that's coming in from many of our businesses.
That's right.
People are sitting on the liquidity as Lars mentioned and waiting to see what's going to happen here.
The good news is they're making good money and having good growth internally but they're being very careful about investing for the future as my editorial comment.
The next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just in terms of the loan growth commercial was strong once again much of the growth was -- did come from the Mortgage Banker Finance and Karen I know you said the outlook is for a decline.
But just given what the industry is seeing in refis it's not surprising to me it's up as much as it is and you noted market share gains.
But should we eventually see a decline given -- I know you guys have used the MBA forecast? How are you thinking about normalization as we look into 4Q or even as we look into 2013? Can you give us a little bit of color in terms of how you're thinking about the normalization from here? Sure.
Mortgage Banker as we said before can be very variable and is very difficult to predict.
The Mortgage Banker Association forecast for the fourth quarter does show a decline in application volume.
Given the low rate environment it's hard to see if that will ultimately happen.
But as we said before it should decline at some point it's just difficult to say exactly when.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And if I could ask one follow-up question.
Just in terms of -- to follow up with Steve's question in terms of securities portfolio you're now at $9.4 billion on the MBS portfolio.
You historically talked about $9 billion.
Just given where reinvestment yields are right now at 1.5% as you noted should we expect to see that portfolio shrink over time and we could actually see the balance sheet shrink a little bit just given where loan yields currently are right now? Sorry given where securities yields are right now? Ultimately we do want loan growth and we want to make sure that we are very positioned for loan growth.
So ultimately that portfolio shrinking is a good sign because it would be a result of loan growth.
In the meantime we are comfortable with our securities portfolio where it sits today.
We look at it all the time taking into account our forecast for where deposits are going to be going where loan growth is going to be going and keeping in mind the fact that we want to be well positioned for loan growth.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I can just -- Sorry Lars go ahead.
No I was just going to say that that is -- the key is Karen was saying with managing our excess liquidity.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I could just squeeze one quick last one in there.
On the commercial loans of the 14 basis points of yield compression you showed can you break it down in terms of how much of that was from runoff of the accretion versus how much are you actually seeing core pricing pressure on the commercial side? Yes.
I think it's important on the yield to know that 9 basis points of that 14 basis point decline was from accretion the lease portfolio adjustment and the impact on the nonaccruals that we noted.
The rest the 4 basis point decline was from those 3 portfolio impacts that we talked about on Slide 10.
Your next question comes from Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could provide us some perspective on why your Midwest loan balances are still declining especially because many of your larger Midwest competitors have grown in the last year.
And I'm wondering if you can also highlight overall competition pricing and also you can kind of cross why your optimistic earlier comments on Michigan haven't yet translated to loan growth yet.
Okay.
Lars would you like to comment on that? Yes I'd be glad to.
Yes in linked quarter you did see in the Midwest market a slight decline in the balances there.
And it was pretty much in a number of different categories.
But on the flip side of that and I referenced this earlier Craig with -- in my comments to Steve when we look at the commitment level in Michigan they continue to increase.
And in fact they were one of largest contributors to the increase in overall commitment levels for that portfolio.
So a lot of our Middle Market customers and even our wealth customers that bank with us are very connected obviously to the auto industry.
The auto industry has come back very strong.
There's a lot of liquidity delevering going on.
Frankly I'm very encouraged with the numbers of customers we have the numbers of customers we continue to pick up.
We can't control the usage under the facilities but what we can focus on is the number of customers we're serving in Michigan the number of customers we're serving in Middle Market banking executing our relationship banking model.
And I think we've seen even in the local -- or the most recent market share gains in deposits that we continue to stay very focused on this critical market for our franchise.
Frankly I'm very very encouraged there.
We're doing some things right now with Wealth Management with that team cross-selling those products into -- at a much deeper level our Middle Market banking book of business.
And frankly that is going extremely well.
We've got some very experienced bankers.
We got some long-term relationships and I'm very encouraged about that marketplace.
Just to underline that as we were visiting with customers recently we heard from a number of those customers that they are doing what we were indicating earlier.
They're building their cash and waiting and want to run with a higher level of liquidity than they have in the past as well.
Yes I think we to that point we see that in Michigan.
We also see that across the rest of the franchise frankly.
There is a much more conservative perspective around maintaining liquidity levels for the customers that we bank and we target.
Research Division</strong> And Lars on the National Dealer business which is mostly a Western business not a Midwest business for you do have an interest in making that more diverse? So growing the Midwest and Texas business there? And also you're very diverse in terms of the guys you work with the manufacturers.
Would you want a larger U.S.
weighting in there too from the U.S.
manufacturers? Yes well first of all if you look at our business today 43% of the overall nameplates are the Japanese.
We have somewhere I think just under 25% is the U.S.
nameplates and then the balance is rounded out hence others.
Those have shifted over time as I think the market has shifted and consumer demand has changed.
I think we're where we need to be right now to optimize our performance with our dealers.
We're very focused on the dealers maybe a little less so on the brand.
We've got a number of dealers that we worked with for a very long period of time deep relationships.
And frankly some of the nameplates that they carry have changed as we've come through the cycle.
Now I would point out when you look at the dealer portfolio you will see a concentration on the West Coast in balances.
That you have to keep in mind is where the dealers are headquartered okay? We're very focused on local relationships local decision making.
It's very consistent with our relationship banking strategy.
And frankly the dealers on the West Coast have performed very very well especially the strongest which as you know is what we focus on in our dealer business.
But many of those dealers are doing business frankly throughout the country.
So I think it's less about focusing on the West Coast it's more about focusing on the very best in the industry keeping the ones we have and frankly keeping a very disciplined strategy and staying very focused on picking up new customers that fit in a long-term proven strategy.
You might mention too Lars about our mega-dealer in underlining the...
Yes yes that's right and I guess I took for granted a little bit our strategy that it's really clear we do take a mega-dealer.
We're very focused in case you're less familiar on this with really the larger dealers.
These are dealers that in many cases have multiple not just points of sale but also have multiple brands creates balance in their franchise which we really appreciate.
But we're really not focused on the moms and the pops and of course many of those got hurt more going through the most recent recession.
We're focused on the best the strongest we think in the business.
And frankly while we didn't have as much growth in just linked quarters this has been a great long-term growth business for us.
And frankly I'm less concerned about the quarter-to-quarter growth in balances as I am about the numbers of dealers that we retain we deepen our relationships with and frankly picking up just the best in the industry.
Your next question comes the line of Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess this question is for Lars.
Lars just wondering what kind of competitive dynamics you're seeing in some of your Specialty commercial lines like Energy and Tech &amp; Life Sciences where maybe we've seen some new entrants come in in the last year.
Are you guys -- feel like you're gaining market share in these areas? Or just can you give us some details there? Right.
Yes in what I define as some of our Middle Market industry groups it's all part of our Middle Market strategy.
In some of those areas that have had very nice growth obviously in the U.S.
the auto industry Technology &amp; Life Sciences and the Mortgage businesses have all benefited nicely.
And while with our unique industry expertise we have been able to distinguish ourselves and clearly have some leadership positions in those areas we expect to continue to grow those businesses.
We have very tenured bankers.
We have the right products.
Frankly we're in the right places.
Now I would tell you that it is more competitive today almost across every line of business that we've got.
But I've seen this throughout my career.
You do see different institutions banks will jump in and out of industries.
We've stayed very consistent in our industry areas.
And I think that our customers know that the industries know that we stayed very committed.
And frankly we get paid a premium for that.
And we're going to continue to stay very focused on our relationship banking model and we're going to stay very focused on getting paid a premium for that.
Even to point out Jennifer with the pricing pressures we have gotten in some of these Specialty areas as well as Middle Market Corporate some of our others we as a company have largely been able to hold our loan spreads now for 3 quarters in a row.
I think that's pretty remarkable and I think it's evidence of our successful relationship banking model.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Placet from Matt's team.
Just as a follow-up on the topic of loan growth looking at Slide 5 specifically as it relates to the Texas market.
The chart seems to indicate the pace of growth is slowing a bit there the past few quarters.
Just given how much of a focus Texas is for Comerica curious if you can speak to some of the trends you're seeing down there.
Is this just a function of continued uncertainty among customers or...
Lars? Yes absolutely.
I'd be glad to answer that.
What you've seen obviously over a long period of time Rob is that the Texas market has been a source of excellent growth for our company.
Quarter-to-quarter you end up with some lumpiness in particular businesses and -- but I'm very very encouraged.
In fact if you look at our overall commitments today as a company we saw and continue to see excellent positioning in our Texas market.
Utilization rates can kind of move around a little bit but I feel very encouraged.
In fact I would point out in the Houston market that continues to be which happens to be a big part of the ex-Sterling Bank footprint that's one of our highest productivity areas for commercial banking.
But that includes Small Business Banking.
In fact we're seeing record levels of pipeline building in the Houston metropolitan market in Small Business.
So we're very very encouraged about what the Sterling franchise has done for us in Texas.
Frankly one of the things that distinguishes us I think in our business model is our local decision-making local leadership.
Downey Bridgwater who was CEO of Sterling is heading that up bringing together all the resources of the bank there.
And it's not just in Small Business it's not just in Retail it's not just in our commercial banking but we're seeing at a noninterest income opportunities and list there too.
So I think we're very well positioned from the macroeconomics of the Texas market but also with the execution of our relationship banking model here.
And what I would just add to that Rob going on in Texas is the purposeful decline of the some of the Commercial Real Estate loans that we acquired with Sterling.
That's happening on the loan side.
And even on the deposit side as we reprice the deposits in that market there is purposeful decline of some of the higher-rate CDs going on in that market.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then also just a follow-up on the decline in the loan yield this quarter.
Should we take your comments to imply that you're actually not seeing any core pricing pressure but rather it's just some of the onetime items this quarter the impact from lower accretion and the loan mix shift? Lars? Sure.
Clearly as Karen pointed out well before we do have the continual runoff and refinancing of some of the higher-fixed-rate mortgage loans kind of a remix of the business tilting towards C&amp;I less Commercial Real Estate and positive asset quality migration.
Those all contribute to it.
But if you put those aside and I look at just our core loan spreads what we're doing with our new business with our renewed business overall I'm not going to tell you it's not -- it's easy.
It's a fistfight out there in terms of competitive pricing day to day.
My team knows that in the footprint the Retail Bank the Wealth Management team.
However in spite of that as I pointed out before for 3 quarters in a row our loan spreads have held.
And frankly I think that is the best evidence of our relationship banking model our experienced bankers frankly our industry expertise.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan Batory calling from Ken's team.
My question is on the excess liquidity position.
So that obviously built a little bit this quarter and it looks like you guys put some to work at the end of the quarter just buying the securities.
But if loan demand remains weak what is your appetite to further invest or further put that to work in the securities portfolio just given where rates are today? Karen? Thank you Brian.
As I mentioned we are very focused on loan growth.
That said we do manage our overall portfolio with a continual eye looking to the future on where we think deposits will go and where we think loans will go.
When we think about the securities portfolio one of the things that we are very mindful of is the fact that we want to be well positioned for loan growth and as rates rise the securities portfolio will be marked and will have an extension risk on it.
And as it's marked-to-market with the new proposed Basel III capital rule and the AOCI filter that could have a significant impact on capital.
So we are weighing all of these things where we think deposits will go where we think loans will go excess liquidity the longer-term impact of the securities portfolio should we increase it as we make these decisions.
It is a fluid process.
We continually monitor it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And my follow-up is just on expenses.
So they've been pretty well contained over the past couple of quarters and I think we're starting to see the efficiency plan that you guys announced earlier this year show.
But given the low rate environment are there any other levers you can pull on the expense side to offset some of the pressures that we could see on revenues? Yes we are continually focused on expenses and Comerica has been good for a long time at managing our expenses.
But that said as we continually focus on it and continually look at where we can be more efficient there will be and are additional levers that we will pull to continually manage expenses flat to down.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
My question is on capital returns for next year.
Clearly this year Ralph you've returned a good amount of capital back to shareholders.
But what I gather from this call is given the rate environment and the growth trajectory in the U.S.
and you mentioned that corporates have tons of cash the revenue outlook for the industry will remain challenging next year.
I guess could you give us a sense of how aggressive well-capitalized institutions like Comerica can be next year in terms of the stress test? Additionally what is your propensity to buy growth with that excess capital next year? Well I think just underlining what Karen was talking about earlier this is not the time to stretch and go away from your basic model which is relationship as you heard Lars talk about on commercial lending the same thing is true in Wealth Management and Retail.
And what's going to happen is we're going to have to see what the rules are as well.
We have not seen yet the final rules from a liquidity standpoint and other things that need to come out.
And therefore as we have historically we've been aggressive at returning capital as you've just mentioned and we will look at that as well.
But a lot will depend on where we think everything is moving at that point in time and where the rules stand as well.
Karen do you want to add anything to that? Yes I would just say Erika in particular on the stress test we hope to receive the scenarios from the fed in early November so it's too early honestly to say anything about the stress test.
We will be running it this year.
We will be submitting again in January.
And we do recognize that we come at this from a position of strength.
Got it.
And I guess is it fair to assume if the parameters are similar to last year that given that you're entering this year to your point in a position of even greater capital strength we could assume that the capital return trajectory for Comerica can continue to keep building? I think it's too early to assume anything because it's a new process each year and a new scenario each year.
We'll have to work our way through it.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I want to ask more on the NIM.
When you were sort of signaling -- I just want to get -- understand you finished the quarter 2.96% for NIM.
We should think going forward that there is going to be some more compression in the current environment although the rate of compression will abate.
Is that the right way to think about things? As you know we focus more on the net interest income on the dollar side than on the rate side.
But what I will say is that you will see some continued decrease in accretion as we've talked about.
We expect the next quarter accretion to be $7 million to $9 million versus the $15 million that we had this quarter.
And going forward accretion should continue to slow as we have about $60 million left of accretion over the 4-year life of the rest of the loans.
So that will come in over time but slow each quarter.
As you think about the rest of net interest income the loan portfolio dynamics that we talked about on Slide 10 should slow over time but they do exist still.
And on the mortgage-backed securities portfolio while we continue to manage that as best we can that is impacted by the current rate environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Ralph and Lars you talked about some of your clients being reticent right now to actually go ahead and invest in their businesses.
Do they just need some kind of certainty? Do they just need to know the outcome of the elections and it doesn't really sort of matter who wins they'll go ahead and invest in it? Or is it going to sort of matter who wins the election? I mean how should we think about it? They just need certainty or do they actually need to know what path we're going down? I think it's certainty because I think as you look back over history people can deal with certainty if they know what the rules are and what the expectations are moving forward and that's kind of what we're hearing is more of the uncertainty.
And it's a little different for each customer depending on the businesses they're in and how they're impacted.
But as was mentioned earlier everyone is being very cautious here and waiting to get that certainty but also strengthening their balance sheets which longer term will be a positive from that standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on the deliberate mix shift in the loan portfolio.
Just kind of curious maybe Lars could provide some color with this I'm just curious given that the yields are holding up much better on the CRE side than on the C&amp;I side I'm just curious what's going to make the risk-reward a little bit more attractive where you don't just see maybe the slowing of the runoff but maybe you see some attractive opportunities on that side of the portfolio.
Yes and you're speaking Steve particularly to the Commercial Real Estate side of the portfolio correct? Research Division</strong> Exactly.
So first of all we've shared before our strategy and continues to be our Commercial Real Estate strategy is very much of an in-footprint urban market kind of oriented focus.
What we are seeing is primarily multifamily activities.
Now just because the portfolio has seen some declines and as Karen pointed out a portion of that is runoff of nonstrategic kind of assets opportunities that we've got in the portfolio that will eventually subside.
We have had over the last number of quarters though a lot of volume.
We have closed a lot of multifamily.
We continue to see a few other asset classes where we've been very deliberate and conservative in our approach.
But for example an office in the Northern California market which frankly is red-hot industrial in Southern Cal which is very very strong.
I think we're very well positioned.
We've got the right model.
We've got the right bankers.
We've got a lot of experience but we're going to be very deliberate.
We're going to be very focused and frankly we're going to make sure that we execute our relationship banking model.
This is not just about project finance.
This is really more about working with developers that we've known for a very very long period of time.
And by the way an increasing amount of them are doing their wealth business with us which is great to see frankly because we stood by them going through this past cycle and I think we have deeper relationships.
So I do think we're going to continue to see opportunities there.
I do think that a lot of the construction loans that we've closed and as we see fundings are going to start to impact on a positive way that portfolio.
And clearly we are getting better spreads in that portfolio than you would in a typical middle market C&amp;I opportunity.
I see it as source -- as an opportunity for growth.
It's just we got to get out I think a little bit further into next year.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That's great color.
And then my second question kind of relates to that Michigan market and a lot of the positive momentum that you're seeing up there.
I'm just kind of curious how you think the recent acquisition of Citizens Republic there does that create some more potential opportunities for you to take market share or how do you think about that? We've been in that market as I think everybody knows well over 160 years.
We're well known.
We've got a great team there and as things move forward as Lars was talking about earlier the economy will provide increasing opportunities.
I don't think that any one situation will change that to any degree.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- I have in my notes that the Mortgage Bankers portfolio is about 85% refi.
Can you give any color around if that's sort of the case for the third quarter and generally speaking if there's any concerted effort to move that more towards purchase-type model? Lars? Yes we have seen a bit of a shift.
If you look at the third quarter our refi volume was about 75%.
So we did see some increase in the activity of purchase volumes in the third quarter for volumes.
Are we positioned to capture more of the purchase market? Absolutely.
The key for us is that we're working with the right mortgage companies.
And there's been a lot of change and shift in how mortgages are originated in this industry and frankly I think that we're very well positioned.
The mortgage companies that we're working with typically are the larger stronger independent ones and frankly they're capturing a lot of volume and they're doing very well.
So I continue to see this as a long-term business for us.
It's going to have some variation in the balances but I pointed this out before for me the key is to have a deep relationship with them to be one of the preferred lenders.
Our treasury management cross-sell which I use as a nice bellwether for deepening our relationships is over 90% with the mortgage companies we work with.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about National Dealer just for a second? Have you seen the falloff in average balances this quarter? And I'm asking because I'm trying to get a sense of what is going into your 7% to 8% loan growth assumptions for the year.
Lars? Okay speaking more specifically just about the dealer portfolio first of all because we do have obviously a couple of businesses including mortgage banking finance with variability if you looked back before this year over the last decade we really only saw one fall period where we did not see a seasonal decline in inventories as our dealers cleared the lots really position themselves for new year models.
This year we have not seen it happen.
And I would tell you the primary reason that we have not seen the declines in those balances is the Japanese nameplates frankly have been rebuilding their market share in the U.S.
and you see that showing up in the average days on hand of inventory.
That is the days that a car sits on the lot has actually increased in the industry.
But that's really driven by the Asian brands.
So we've just seen less variation in that particular business.
The mortgage banking finance we'll just have to see to Karen's point how that impacts our outstandings on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then just quickly on the interest on nonaccruals obviously you made a point saying the second quarter is very high third quarter is not nearly as high.
When you look at your I guess troubled -- or your credit -- troubled credit portfolio how much room left is there potentially to get additional increases in the interest on nonaccruals as those cure themselves? Or are we more likely to see a sustainable level at these lower levels of additional interest income? John? Every quarter we see as Karen alluded to before kind of a steady state level of interest that we do earn on nonaccrual loans.
It was just a particular event in the second quarter.
One credit in particular plus a small part of another that we had a very fortunate event where they were able to refinance and pay us off in full and that spiked the nonaccrual interest in that quarter.
On a going-run rate basis that's really hard to predict that companies can do that so I would say that Q2 was definitely an aberration.
And I point you to the kind of the steady run rate for prior quarters as a way to look at it going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> All the income statement and balance sheet questions taken care of.
I guess just one question for Ralph.
As you look at the revenue pressure across the industry and the potential for negative earnings growth next year at Comerica if I just look at consensus and where it could go does that change your appetite at all to do deals as a way to maybe fill in that earnings hole in this challenging revenue environment? As we've said before we feel very comfortable today with where our footprint is.
We have a lot of opportunity especially given the growth we've had here in Texas with the Sterling acquisition that Lars was talking about earlier and our position in California 2 of the largest markets in the country and now as I mentioned earlier as well with Michigan's economy picking up.
I think we're very well positioned to take advantage of growth in these markets.
And the acquisitions while we always look to see those today it would have to be a very strategic opportunity and there wouldn’t be many of those from that standpoint.
And Terry I would just add that while the environment is not so rosy right now for banks we are very focused on the bottom line and growing that by controlling what we can.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I just have one follow-up.
Just in terms of Lars your comments on the Commercial Real Estate runoff could you talk about kind of how much more planned runoff there would be from the Sterling portfolio? Very difficult to tell.
When you look at that you got to keep in mind there's a couple of different dynamics going on there and frankly one is the interest rate environment.
The opportunity for some of those customers to refinance at another institution will certainly have some impact on it.
Frankly I think that we continue to find some opportunities in that portfolio too where it's investor-owned.
We're finding some good Private Banking Wealth Management opportunities.
So we're just going to kind of execute.
We're going to continue to work through that portfolio.
But I'll tell you it'd be very difficult to give you a projection on exactly what kind of runoff we're going to see quarter to quarter on the portfolio.
But I do think that we will see continued declines.
Research Division</strong> And if we look at the commercial mortgage portfolio overall is it fair to say that the end market appetite has been maybe a little greater than expected and that has attributed to the ongoing runoff at the pace it's been? Yes I think that that's the single biggest driver.
I think that as we continue to have stabilization of projects and they become permanent market-ready as the permanent market rates continue to hit very attractive levels our customers are accessing and benefiting from that.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Thomas on behalf of Paul.
You touched a bit on I guess businesses and customers sort of in a wait-and-see approach but you seem pretty positive on the economic environment.
We're just trying to get a better sense of whether the loan growth you were experiencing kind of contributed -- whether you contribute that to market share gains or sort of an improving economic environment overall in your markets.
Lars? Well I would say it is not an improving economic environment that has driven for the most part our growth.
If you look at our commercial loan growth in particular just as one segment that's increased over 20% over the last year.
That is market share gains.
That is clearly some of the industry groups that we talked about earlier where I think we're well positioned with the right bankers industry kind of expertise.
I think Texas has made a real difference in that.
Obviously in the Texas market alone the economic environment has helped.
But keeping in mind the fact that a lot of our customers continue to de-lever in order to get growth you do have to move some market share.
And frankly I think with our balance of businesses and in the markets that we serve frankly the market has well received our relationship banking model and I think we've been very well positioned to operate in a very challenging market.
Frankly I think those are the key drivers for us.
I would underline what Lars just said on the economies though that both Texas and as I mentioned in my remarks earlier Michigan is coming back because of the auto industry turn and auto sales now at about 14.9 million that has provided a good economic turnaround.
We're seeing some in California as well as I mentioned and I would underline the specific industries that we're in like Technology &amp; Life Sciences which has been strong through the downturn as well.
So it is a business diversity as well as being in the right markets at the right time.
And I may just underscore the California issue because I think that we've begun to see and this is really on a go-forward basis that that market appears to be strengthening.
We did get some growth in the past in Northern Cal kind of general middle market.
And we are seeing maybe the beginnings of firming up in the economy in the Southern Cal market some promising signs.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Your loan growth outlook that still implies flat end-of-period balances for next quarter.
I just want to confirm that that's fair or -- and that's consistent with your expectation for the fourth quarter.
And then also is that likely to be the case for the first half of '13? I think what's important in our outlook is that we do expect to continue to see some decline in Commercial Real Estate as we're growing our other businesses so that is reflected in our new outlook of 7% to 8% plus the fact that we can't predict with great certainty where Mortgage Banker will go.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the first half of '13 can you give us a little bit of color on how you think about loan trends there? Yes on 2013 we will provide our outlook as we always do on the fourth quarter earnings call.
But you should think about loan growth from the perspective of where we sit today where we continue to see some decline in Commercial Real Estate some variability in Mortgage Banker Finance while we're growing all of our other businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the middle market side I mean I know that can really move the needle for you guys and you indicated that loan growth there has been still somewhat sluggish as some of your borrowers are reluctant.
Are you looking at opportunities to get more price-competitive there to really drive growth since you command such a big presence in that space? Yes.
No we are not focused on being more competitive.
I think we're fair today in our pricing.
One of the things that we're very focused on is continuing to leverage our relationship banking model.
I view us as a premium service provider.
We're big enough.
We have the products the expertise the experience of the bankers that we can go in and really compete well in all of our markets in that general middle market space.
But frankly I think we also have the advantages of being nimble enough at our size local decision-making through the way that we're organized to be more responsive reliable and flexible.
So while I know pricing is very important to me that is just one piece of our strategy.
It's an important piece but what we're very really focused on spending more time in the markets developing relationships with customers.
To your point about middle market maybe not having the general middle market some of the growth in there you have to keep in mind that there's a lot of manufacturing in there.
A lot of those companies have de-levered.
But we've seen a nice pickup in commitment levels there as I mentioned earlier and we saw increases in general middle market commitments in California Michigan and in Texas and I think that bodes well for us.
The thing I would add to that too is I think today relationships mean more than they did at the height of the economy because of an institution that has been there for our customers through the downturn.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Mazur with Harvest Capital.
Just a few quick ones on excess liquidity in securities portfolio.
I think the average deposits at the fed was over $4 billion in the quarter so I think that was up around 20% quarter-over-quarter and I think that represents about 7% of earning assets now and I think that’s probably earning about 25 basis points.
So I think that's one of the higher percentages of the banks that I've looked at and it's a pretty large drag on NIM.
And so I just wanted to on the context of your liquidity position which I think looks pretty solid and I think that would express next year should drive some incremental deposit growth so number one question in that context can you explain the targeting of fixed size for the securities portfolio that you kind of target in that $9 billion to $10 billion range? And number two with Q3 driving mortgage securities basically arguably artificially low are there other securities or other asset classes you may consider investing in in that portfolio? This is something that we manage fluently -- fluidly Dan.
What I would say on the excess liquidity is yes it did reach over $4 billion at one point but today it's around $3 billion due to some of the purchases that we've made as well as loan growth.
It is something as I've said that we manage looking forward with where we think deposits will go where we think loan balances will go.
We do want to make sure that we are well positioned for loan growth.
As we think about potential other asset classes we have -- we continually look at potential other asset classes but they have to fit our strategy of highly-liquid highly-rated portfolio.
And the reality is within our strategy there aren't a lot of other options than mortgage-backed securities.
You've seen us -- as we purchased mortgage-backed securities this past quarter we have purchased more CMOs than 15-year pass-throughs because CMOs are giving us a little bit better yield today with that short duration that we're looking for.
I don't know if I can answer your question any more Dan.
No.
This is all we've got.
So it's something you -- so have you changed the $9 billion to $10 billion -- the $9 billion target? Has that now risen given the yields have declined? We like our securities portfolio where it is today when we think of forward-looking.
That $9 billion target that we've talked about in the past is something that we said we will continually manage and you've seen us do that this quarter.
It's hard to predict where the target will be going forward because again this is something fluid and something that we manage based on the deposit growth based on loan growth et cetera.
But we are very comfortable with where our portfolio is today given all the parameters that I've talked about.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Harbes with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So a question on the efficiency ratio.
I know longer term you guys are targeting to get that down below 60% but it ticked a bit higher this quarter.
I mean is it fair to assume that you're really going to need some help on the rates to get there? Or are there other avenues that you're considering to drive that lower over time? Karen? Yes we have set an efficiency ratio target to take our ratio below 60% over time.
If you look at us from a year-to-date perspective we have moved that ratio in the right direction where we ended 2011 at 72% and year-to-date we are at 70%.
So our focus is to continue to move it in the right direction by controlling what we can control and growing revenues faster than we're growing expenses.
As we've said in the past in order to meet our target we will need a little bit of a rate environment pickup but clearly not rates back to normal to get there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then it looks like the tax rate was a little lower at least than we were looking for.
I think in the past you suggested a way to try to calculate that by netting out about I think $60 million or so of tax credits.
Is that still a fair way to think about it or would you provide any sort of updated guidance on the tax side? That is still a fair way to think about it.
We did have the benefit this quarter in taxes of having a refund on interest paid to the IRS and so that was helping us this quarter.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Ralph Babb the Chairman and CEO for any closing remarks.
I would just like to thank everybody for taking the time this morning to be on the call and your interest in Comerica and I hope everybody has a good day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to our host Ms.
Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning everyone and welcome to Comerica's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our fourth quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into the call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within the presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported fourth quarter 2012 earnings per share of $0.68 or $130 million compared to $0.61 or $117 million for the third quarter.
Loan and fee income growth combined with expense control contributed to our 11% increase in fourth quarter 2012 net income when compared to the third quarter.
Full year 2012 net income was $521 million an increase of $128 million or 33% compared to 2011.
Turning to Slide #4 and further highlights.
In this slow-growing national economy we continue to benefit from our position in growth markets and our industry expertise which helped drive an increase in average total loans of $522 million.
The increase in average total loans primarily reflected an increase of $762 million or 3% in commercial loans partially offset by a decrease of $241 million or 2% in Commercial Real Estate loans.
The increase in commercial loans was primarily driven by increases in National Dealer Services Energy general Middle Market and Mortgage Banker Finance.
We continue to capitalize on opportunities by reallocating resources to faster-growing markets and segments.
Average total deposits increased $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter to a record $51.3 billion primarily reflecting an increase of $1.3 billion or 6% in non-interest-bearing deposits.
Excluding accretion net interest income was stable in the fourth quarter and reflected an increase in loan volumes and lower funding costs offset by the continued shift in the mix of the loan portfolio a decline in LIBOR and lower yields on mortgage-backed investment securities.
Accretion of the purchase discount in the acquired Sterling loan portfolio declined $2 million.
Non-interest income increased $7 million to $204 million in the fourth quarter primarily due to increases in customer-driven fee income.
We maintained our tight control of expenses in the fourth quarter.
Non-interest expenses decreased $22 million to $427 million primarily reflecting a decrease in restructuring expenses related to the Sterling acquisition.
Credit quality continued to be strong in the fourth quarter with lower non-accrual and watch list loans and a lower provision for credit losses.
With net charge-offs of 34 basis points we are well within our historical normal range.
We have demonstrated throughout the cycle that we can effectively manage credit.
Our capital position remains a source of strength to support our growth.
We repurchased 3.1 million shares in the fourth quarter and 10.1 million shares for the full year 2012 under our share repurchase program.
Combined with dividends we returned 93% and 79% of fourth quarter and 2012 net income to shareholders respectively.
Turning to Slide #5.
We continue to be pleased with the substantial growth opportunities in our markets particularly Texas where we continue to leverage our standing as the largest U.S.
commercial bank headquartered in the state.
The Texas economy continues to be a growth leader consistently outperforming the national economy.
We are allocating more resources in Texas to Technology and Life Sciences Environmental Services and Mortgage Banker Finance to complement our already-strong energy lending capabilities and our focus on a broad spectrum of middle market companies.
Average loans in Texas were up in the fourth quarter and were up 10% from a year ago.
While average deposits which were relatively stable quarter-over-quarter were down from a year earlier as expected as we adjusted pricing on the former Sterling portfolio.
We are also well positioned to capitalize on the considerable opportunities in California a state whose economy is gaining momentum particularly in Northern California where technology companies in Silicon Valley continued to drive growth.
Our Technology and Life Sciences business has strong relationships with key venture capital firms in all of the major tech hubs.
In our National Dealer Services business we have relationships with auto dealerships in more than 30 states California being the largest.
And our Southern California-based entertainment group is active in financing film and television productions as well as providing wealth management services to members of the entertainment community.
Average loans and deposits in California were up in the fourth quarter and were up 13% and 15% respectively from the fourth quarter of 2011.
The economic recovery in Michigan is broadening and continues to improve primarily driven by the recovery of the auto sector.
We have strengthened our #2 deposit market share position in the state based on the latest FDIC deposit market share survey.
We have long-standing relationships with businesses and consumers in the state where we have had a continuous presence for more than 163 years now.
Michigan remains an important market to us and we are proud to be among the largest employers in Metropolitan Detroit.
Average loans in Michigan were relatively stable in the fourth quarter and down 2% from the fourth quarter of 2011 as customers continued to have significant liquidity and have deleveraged through the cycle.
Average deposits in Michigan grew in the fourth quarter and were up 5% from a year ago.
Looking ahead regardless of how our nation's fiscal issues are resolved we still expect to operate in a low-rate environment for quite some time and are prepared to do so.
We believe our focus on relationships growth markets industry expertise and expense management should assist us in increasing returns to shareholders and provide us the momentum that will not only carry us through an extended low-rate environment but enable us to succeed in it too.
We believe our company has a tremendous upside when the economy ratchets up and interest rates rise.
Looking at the impact from a 200 basis point increase in rates over a 12-month period equivalent to 100 basis points on average we should expect to see an almost $180 million or 11% increase in net interest income based on our analysis at December 31 2012.
This includes the value of our already-strong deposit base which we anticipate would increase substantially when rates rise providing a tremendous source of low-cost funding with continued loan growth.
In addition as economic activity improves and investments ramp up particularly among small and middle market companies we expect fee income generation to continue to increase along with loan volumes.
We believe we are ready for the road ahead and have the right strategy in place to make a positive difference for our shareholders customers and employees.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6.
As Ralph mentioned total average loan growth was $522 million or 1% quarter-over-quarter.
The pace of decline of average commercial mortgage and real estate construction loans slowed in the fourth quarter with a decrease of $241 million compared to the $344 million decrease we had in the third quarter.
While properties are still being refinanced in the end market faster than new commitments are drawn our Commercial Real Estate pipeline continues to grow and demand is improving.
As shown in the blue diamonds loan yields declined 6 basis points in the quarter reflecting declines in LIBOR and purchase loan accretion as well as the continued mix shift in our portfolio.
On the right-hand side you can see commercial loans which were up 3% or $762 million were the main driver of our loan growth.
As you can see on the green part of the bar Mortgage Banker average loans grew again this past quarter driven by market share gains and continued positive trends in the refinance markets.
As we have said in the past Mortgage Banker outstandings can be volatile and should eventually decline as refinance volumes slow.
As we have seen historically we had strong seasonal growth at the end of the year with period-end loans increasing $1.9 billion or 4% to $46.1 billion.
This primarily reflected an increase of $2.1 billion or 7% in commercial loans with increases noted in almost all lines of business.
In addition total commitments increased $817 million in the fourth quarter with commitments increasing in almost every business line led by Mortgage Banker Energy and Technology and Life Sciences.
Line utilization increased to 49.4% from 48.2% in the third quarter.
Also our loan pipeline remains solid even with the high level of closing activity at year end and almost 2/3 of the pipeline at year end can be attributed to new business.
As shown on Slide 7 our total average deposits grew 3% ending the year at an all-time high.
Our average non-interest-bearing deposits also reached a new record increasing $1.3 billion or 6% over the third quarter.
The growth was broad based with contributions from almost every business line.
We were able to lower deposit pricing by 2 basis points as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
As I have said before we continue to carefully scrutinize deposit pricing.
However at this level it's becoming more difficult to continue to lower the overall cost in the future.
Our period-end deposits increased to a record $52.2 billion.
We are closely monitoring activity but we have not seen an impact on the expiration of the transaction account guarantee program on December 31.
Finally our loan-to-deposit ratio stood at 88% at year end.
Slide 8 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
The portfolio averaged about $10 billion in the fourth quarter.
This slightly larger size helped offset the decline in yields shown in blue diamonds resulting from purchases of securities with rates in the 1.5% range.
Similar to last quarter there was only a small amount of accelerated premium amortization recognized in the quarter.
At December 31 the remaining net unamortized premium was about $95 million or just under 1% of the portfolio balance.
The average duration on the portfolio remains low at 3 years.
Prepayments were about $900 million in the fourth quarter.
We expect prepayments will continue at this pace in the first quarter assuming rates remain at current levels.
Lastly we continue to manage the size of the portfolio in conjunction with our excess liquidity.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our net interest income was relatively stable in the fourth quarter.
Loan growth helped offset the impact of accretion and the continued low-rate environment.
We've summarized in the table on the right the major moving pieces in the quarter.
Growth in average loans added $4 million to net interest income but does not impact the rate margin.
While we remain focused on holding spreads for new and renewed credit facilities there are many mix shift dynamics that are impacting the loan portfolio such as higher yield in Commercial Real Estate loans being replaced by lower yield in commercial loans; older fixed rates loans maturing some of which are refinanced at current yields; as well as positive credit migration.
All these factors combined had a $4 million or 4 basis point impact on the net interest margin.
Approximately 85% of our loans are floating rate of which 75% are LIBOR based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
LIBOR declined in the fourth quarter with average 30-day LIBOR declining 3 basis points.
The decline in LIBOR had a $2 million or 2 basis point impact.
In addition you may recall in the third quarter we had $2 million in residual value lease adjustments in our portfolio which reduced the margin last quarter by 2 basis points and was not repeated.
Accretion of the purchase discount on the acquired Sterling portfolio contributed $13 million which is a decline of $2 million in the quarter or 1 basis point on the margin.
The accretion realized was greater than we had forecast as the performance of the acquired portfolio exceeded our expectations due to improved credit quality and faster repayment or refinance activity.
We have about $55 million of total accretion remaining to be realized on the acquired portfolio.
Accretion will continue to trend downward each quarter and we expect to recognize about $20 million to $30 million in 2013.
In aggregate total loan-related items had a $2 million or 5 basis point negative impact on the margin.
Dynamics in the securities portfolio including prepayments being reinvested at lower rates partially offset by a slightly larger portfolio had a $2 million or 3 basis point negative impact.
Lower deposit costs added $1 million and provided a 1 basis point increase to the margin.
And finally average excess liquidity increased $478 million reducing the net interest margin by 2 basis points.
As Ralph mentioned our asset-sensitive balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
We believe a 200 basis point annual increase in rates equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in almost $180 million increase in net interest income.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 10.
Credit quality continued to be strong in the fourth quarter.
Net charge-offs decreased to $37 million or 34 basis points of average loans.
While gross charge-offs were at a similar level as the third quarter we had a higher level of recoveries in the fourth quarter.
Our provision for credit losses was $16 million down from $22 million in the third quarter.
This decrease reflects the substantial decrease in nonperforming and watch list loans as shown on the right side of the slide.
Our watch list loans decreased $565 million to $3.1 billion or 6.7% of total loans.
Nonperforming loans decreased $151 million.
With the decline in nonperforming loans the allowance to NPLs increased to 116%.
In addition the average carrying value of our nonaccrual loans is about 55% and the $629 million allowance is over 4x the annualized fourth quarter net charge-off.
Slide 11 outlines the non-interest income which increased $7 million or 4% in the fourth quarter and reflects increases in customer-driven categories including increases in commercial lending fees derivative income and fiduciary income partially offset by a decrease in letter of credit fees.
We believe that the cross-sell initiatives we have been implementing over the past year are resulting in increased collaboration across business lines.
Noncustomer-related categories were relatively stable at $14 million.
Securities gains related to auction rate securities redemption were $1 million.
This was offset by a $2 million decrease in deferred compensation asset returns which was completely offset in deferred compensation plan expense.
Turning to Slide 12.
We continue to maintain good expense control.
Expenses decreased $22 million.
Excluding the $23 million decrease in restructuring expense the $4 million increase in severance expense and a $6 million benefit in the third quarter from gains on sales of assets expenses declined $9 million compared to the third quarter.
We incurred $2 million in restructuring costs related to the acquisition of Sterling which closed in July 2011.
This compares to $25 million in restructuring expenses recorded in the third quarter.
Restructuring charges related to Sterling are now complete.
While salaries increased $4 million the increase was primarily due to a $4 million decrease in severance -- excuse me a $4 million increase in severance and a $2 million increase in employee incentives which were offset by a decline in deferred compensation which as I mentioned is completely offset in non-interest income.
We continue to carefully manage our workforce which has decreased 5% over the past year as shown on the bottom chart on the slide.
Non-interest expense in the third quarter benefited from $6 million in gain on sale of certain assets not repeated in the fourth quarter.
Also in other non-interest expenses legal expenses declined by $4 million in the fourth quarter.
Moving to Slide 13 and capital.
As Ralph mentioned we repurchased 3.1 million shares under our share repurchase program in the fourth quarter.
In 2012 we repurchased a total of 10.1 million shares for $304 million.
We expect to complete the execution of the previously announced $375 million share repurchase plan through the first quarter.
Combined with dividends paid we returned 79% of net income to shareholders in 2012.
We have submitted our 2013 capital plan to our regulators and expect the response in mid-March.
As stated before we believe that we approached the CapPR process from a position of capital strength as measured by both the current regulatory capital standards as well as the proposed Basel III capital ratios.
On Slide 14 I am pleased to report that we have met and exceeded the financial hurdles we had set for the Sterling acquisition including revenue and expense synergies as well as integration costs.
As I mentioned earlier the integration of Sterling is complete.
There will be no further restructuring expenses related to the acquisition.
In fact total restructuring expenses came in $15 million lower than we originally anticipated with final total cost of $110 million.
The former Sterling footprint which was predominantly Houston San Antonio and Kerrville delivered loan growth of 10% and fee growth of 15% since the deal closed.
Overall we remain very pleased with the acquisition and the momentum we are building in the Texas market.
Finally turning to Slide 15 and our outlook for the full year 2013 compared to 2012.
We expect loan growth to continue but at a slower pace.
Our 2012 loan growth was strong and broad based and we benefited from our expertise in Mortgage Banker National Dealer Services and Energy.
Going forward we expect Mortgage Banker outstandings to eventually normalize in line with refinance activity.
We also expect the rate of decline of our Commercial Real Estate loans to continue to slow and eventually turn but it's difficult to predict the exact timing by quarter or year.
We plan to continue to -- our emphasis on middle markets particularly where we benefit from our industry expertise.
However the current uncertain economic environment does bear on demand and competition for new loans and we intend to maintain discipline with credit structure and relationship pricing.
We expect net interest income to decrease primarily reflecting the continued reduction in the accretion of the loan discount on the Sterling acquisition from $71 million in 2012 to an expected $20 million to $30 million in 2013.
In addition to accretion we expect that the continued low-rate environment will have an impact on loan and securities yields as older fixed-rate loans mature and higher-yielding securities prepay.
While we believe it will wane eventually we do expect a continued impact in portfolio mix shifts from Commercial Real Estate loan decline and positive credit migration.
On the positive side we expect to benefit from continued loan growth and slightly lower funding costs.
With respect to credit we expect our total provision expense will be stable reflecting loan growth offset by a continued decline in problem loans and net charge-offs.
We expect customer-driven non-interest income to increase as we continue to benefit from the full year run rate of the revenue synergies implemented in 2012 including a renewed focus on cross-sell opportunities selective pricing adjustments and product investments.
Note that this does not include an outlook for noncustomer income.
Finally we expect non-interest expenses to decline as we have no further restructuring charges related to Sterling and we expect to realize salary savings from our reduced head -- workforce.
Also tight expense management should result in reductions in several categories such as legal advertising and other real estate expenses.
This will be partially offset by slight increases in pension expense and payroll taxes.
As far as pension expense we made a contribution to the plan at the end of the year.
The returns on the investment of this contribution will help substantially offset increased pension expense.
Therefore we estimate our retirement benefits increased -- expense to increase only about $5 million.
We estimate our tax rate will be approximately 36.5% of pretax income less approximately $66 million in tax benefits.
In closing we are pleased with our continued loan and deposit growth customer fee income generation tight expense management and strong credit performance.
We look forward to the year ahead and we remain keenly focused on delivering a growing bottom line.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the change in the end-of-period balances for the mortgage warehouse how that trended in the quarter and then separately your outlook for that in the near term? I know you expect that it could slow with refis but can you talk a little bit about the -- for next quarter where you think that could go? Okay.
Lars you want to? Yes I'd be glad to.
John we did see a bit of a spike at the end of the year and frankly you may recall in prior quarters we typically do see kind of a run-up in those balances.
The average increase for the quarter was up nearly $100 million and of course the end of the period was up around $373 million but that frankly is not that unusual at the end of the quarter.
So that's the kind of the first part of your question.
Second part kind of on a go-forward basis the mortgage banking industry expects a 19% decline in mortgage loan apps in 2013.
So as Karen made a couple of her comments as we look at next year it would not be unlikely to see some of those balances in the overall mortgage banking finance portfolio moderate.
Assuming that occurs potentially offsetting that could be purchase volumes if the residential real estate market continues to strengthen nationally.
So it's a great business and we got a great stable of customers.
We have clearly added market share this year have very high cross-sells into that portfolio.
So we're committed to it on whole John.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then can you talk a little bit about the growth you're seeing in Middle Market.
It was encouraging to see that that book grew in the quarter and I know you're talking about the strong increase you saw in line utilization and commitments.
So I'm assuming that bodes well but can you give us a little bit more color about what you're seeing changing there that's starting to drive some good growth? Okay very good.
So assuming that you are speaking about Middle Market general and some of the pickup there obviously our total Middle Market businesses we're seeing some nice lift.
But in the Middle Market general category again kind of similar to Mortgage Banking Finance we saw a nice peak at the end of the year at over $300 million but the overall portfolio up $100 million which was really encouraging to see we saw really increases in that largely across our portfolio.
I think there was a lot of good activity that was -- that we saw in the fourth quarter.
Some of it John that would have been -- I would characterize as tax-driven year-end activity levels maybe some transactions that accelerated into the fourth quarter.
But in particular this is an area that we're giving specific focus to.
I think it's an area that we can continue to grow at a nice steady rate as we head into '13.
We've made additional investments into our general Middle Market business and we would expect again as Karen pointed out assuming the economy gives us a little bit of growth that that's an area that we can certainly continue to gain in a number of our markets.
I'd point out that Texas has been a bit of a standout there in terms of growth but we're also seeing pickups in general Middle Market not just in Northern California but Southern California we've seen pipelines grow and actually begun to see a little bit of growth there too.
So that's very very encouraging.
One last note I'd mention and this is just in total commercial you may have noticed that the Michigan market actually was up 1% in the linked quarters so again general Middle Market contributed to that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question just on the securities portfolio.
I noticed in the slide you had basically Slide 8 saying the duration is 3 years.
If you go back a -- just a quarter your duration was 2.7 years.
Can you just explain why the duration of your securities portfolio is increasing? I guess I would have thought it would be coming down given the excess liquidity you mentioned.
Yes sure Ken.
The average duration in our year in every quarter it ranged between 2.7 and 3.
So if you look further back in the year you'll see it was around 3 in other quarters.
What I can say is that we managed that portfolio and the reinvestments in our prepays trying to maximize all of our different parameters including getting the highest yield at the lowest premium and maintaining this highly liquid highly rated portfolio.
And as we reinvest those prepays and try to get the highest yield possible the duration can inch out a little bit.
But again the entire year it's been between 2.7 and 3 years.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that's helpful.
And then just the other question I had on expenses obviously your guidance was lower because you don't have the restructuring cost.
If you were to back out restructuring costs from 2012 and let's call that core expenses what would the guidance be for core expenses year-over-year? So for 2013 or actually for 2012 we had total restructuring expenses of $35 million.
For 2013 we would expect you to take out that $35 million and then reduce expenses further based on the fact that we are maintaining continued tight expense control across lots of areas.
Your next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just maybe we can touch on C&amp;I loan yields.
I'm wondering what is the average new money yield say on loans being put on the book relative to the 3.33% yield in the fourth quarter? Lars? Well what we are focused on and continue to remain focused on Craig is our relationship banking strategy and we deliver a I think a differentiated value proposition in the market.
To support that we take a very disciplined pricing approach to our Middle Market and frankly all of our businesses.
And while you have -- I think we saw -- heard a pretty good breakdown from Karen of the breakdown in some of the decline in the yields overall one key component of that has been the migration of our portfolio not just in asset quality but also in concentration in commercial and industrial.
And as you know in C&amp;I they're -- typically that's a little bit tighter spread lower risk profile and that's where we're continuing to see a lot of good growth good Middle Market growth.
So relative to our loan spreads which I think is a pretty good proxy as we look forward for 2012 we really have focused very sharply on this disciplined pricing relationship pricing and cross-selling.
And for 2012 we've seen loan spreads hold essentially for the whole year in what has clearly been a difficult economic environment and obviously a very very competitive environment.
So I think it really underscores our business model and the fact that the market really is looking for what we're delivering in this relationship banking proposition.
So all that really figures into obviously the overall yield dynamics for the company.
Research Division</strong> And Lars as you said loan spreads haven't really changed throughout 2012 which probably means your new money yield hasn't changed that much.
So I'm wondering if 3.33% really had the accretion in there in the fourth quarter which is a little bit higher than we all thought.
Can you help us think about how much downside is left in C&amp;I loan yields if the accretion goes away and if yield curve and rates remain flat? Yes Craig loan accretion was built into that loan yield number and for accretion going forward we had $71 million in accretion in 2012.
We expect $20 million to $30 million in 2013 but you can think about it as declining every quarter in 2013.
Did that help? Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Karen can I start in terms of the drags on net interest income from loans remixing and then securities repricing lower as you look through 2013 is there any reason to expect the amount of these drags to lessen through the year? Yes.
So if I think about 2013 -- you didn't ask this but do keep in mind the accretion drag which we just talked about.
On securities and loans specifically we do expect the impact from securities yields to continue as long as rates stay where they are.
Currently we're reinvesting our prepays on our portfolio in the 1.5% area but obviously we'll be reinvesting those at current yields.
So that could be an impact depending on the rate environment.
On the portfolio dynamics or the mix shifts that we've talked about we do expect that to continue.
However it should eventually slow.
Hard to tell exactly when it will slow.
We do have the Commercial Real Estate decline in the portfolio slowing.
As we've said that will eventually turn although very difficult to predict the exact period.
The older fixed-rate loans even though it's a small amount that we've got on our overall portfolio we have seen some impact and that should continue but again eventually turn.
And the credit quality impact on the portfolio is continuing to improve but at a slowing pace.
So hopefully that's helpful.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in aggregate maybe about this pace the next several quarters but in aggregate lessening say as we go through the year.
Yes.
Hard to tell.
Research Division</strong> And on the loan side.
Okay.
Right.
Yes.
Hard to tell exactly when but that's reasonable.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Just a follow-up on John Pancari's earlier question on C&amp;I as you look out over the next quarter or 2 and you're talking to your customers do you expect any slowdown and maybe draws on some of these lines that you're seeing that are building given that taxes have gone up and we still have a couple of these mini cliffs still to play out? Lars do you want to take that? Yes I'd be glad to.
Steven couple of things there.
Let me just first touch on the point and I had -- I think John had referenced this too and that is utilization rates.
The utilization rates that we share are at the end of the period and obviously we saw a nice increase around 120 basis point increase in utilization rates.
Actually about nearly 100% of that was driven by our National Dealer finance and the activities we saw at the end of the year if you net that the average utilization rates were very stable as we look into next year.
But our pipelines continue to remain very strong.
They compare very favorably with the fourth quarter of 2011 and frankly I think our commercial businesses are very well positioned.
If you look at the growth that we had in the fourth quarter we noted several standouts but frankly we had growth in almost every commercial line of business that we have here at Comerica.
And we had increase in commercial in every one of our core markets.
So given the backdrop of uncertain economic environment that our customers are feeling and really a dampened appetite for investment I think that we are well positioned with the right model to go out and offer it in the marketplace.
So we'll have to see how '13 plays out but I think Karen gave good outlook on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one last one on the guidance.
Last year the initial guidance for 2012 was relatively vague became more specific as the year progressed.
Karen is that the plan for 2013? Yes our plan is to update the outlook as necessary every quarter as we have done in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin St.
Pierre with Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Question on the provision outlook.
So your provision for 2012 was $80 million.
Your fourth quarter net charge-offs running at about $148 million annualized.
Do you expect your charge-offs to get down closer to that provision for it to be stable? Or do you anticipate significant reserve release to continue into 2013? John? Sure.
I would say first of all that we do not target a specific reserve level.
We follow the methodology that we have had in place for over 10 years and it's worked well in good times and bad.
If you look at our current reserve levels they represent though about 1.37% of total loans at December 31 down a little bit from 1.46% at September 30.
If you look at it on an average basis however our reserves to average loans at the end of the fourth quarter was 1.43%.
Our reserves to nonperforming loans increased substantially in the fourth quarter rising to 116% from 94% because of the decline in nonperforming loans.
At 12/31 our total reserve is $661 million.
It's about 4.4x our annualized fourth quarter charge-offs so we feel we're pretty well reserved.
As we go forward reserve levels are going to naturally vary as net charge-offs and problem loans decline somewhat which we do expect and that'll be offset to some extent by loan growth.
Eventually at some point provision levels will approximate net charge-off levels resulting in reserve release moderating.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just on that front -- and I understand it's more than 4x coverage of charge-offs clearly well reserved.
Is there any impact or potential impact of the recent FASB proposal for life of loss -- life-of-loan loss reserves maybe driving some incentive to soft adopt over time and keep reserve-to-loan ratios higher? That just came out as you know and we continue to study it.
We believe frankly that it is an improvement over prior versions of the rules but it's really still too early to tell and too early to be precise.
It should result in higher reserve levels not only for Comerica but for the industry as a whole.
And frankly implementation is probably still a couple of years away.
There's certainly nothing in our reserves at this point that would reflect that.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And one final quick one unrelated.
Any -- have you seen any change in depositor behavior once the calendar turned and we saw the expiration of the TAG program? Yes.
As we've said before and you may recall we did opt out of the TAG program back in the summer of 2010.
We saw no impact at that time.
We've been monitoring it.
We've seen no impact today and we expect that our customers look to us as a pillar of strength and stability regardless of the TAG expiration program.
So we will continue to monitor it but have seen no impact.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Bryan from Ken's team.
So core pre-provision earnings has been in the $200 million range over the past couple of quarters and when we bring together the guidance from today for lower net interest income higher core fees and lower expenses even x the merger charges what would your outlook be for PPNR? Do you think you can grow it from this $200 million level it's been at over the past couple of quarters? Yes we would view PPNR similar to how we would view net income that our focus is to continue to grow it as best we can despite the headwind.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my next question is on capital.
So on Basel III you're at 9.1% quite a bit above the 7% Tier 1 Common threshold.
But with no preferreds in the capital structure you're closer to that 8.5% Tier 1 threshold.
So is there an appetite either in the near term or longer term to add some preferreds to the capital structure so you could potentially bring down common levels a little bit low -- a little bit more? I think what we will continue to do there is monitor how the final rules develop and make that decision based on that.
That's not a negative.
It means we're just going to watch.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to get maybe a little more color around the guidance on the expenses down net of the restructuring costs that happened in 2012.
I was hoping maybe for some magnitude discussion and then some -- maybe some color around the programs you have if you might reduce branch count or what kind of thing you're going to do to further lower the expense base.
Yes sure.
If you think about expenses year-over-year I've mentioned no restructuring charges.
On top of that we do expect as I mentioned reductions in legal advertising other real estate as well as a run rate expense reduction from our reduced workforce.
We also will have a significant tight control of expenses similar to what we called our profit improvement plan last year where we will be monitoring expense reduction at a very high level to make sure that we are achieving what we expect to achieve.
Something I didn't mention we do have our wholesale debt funding cost which should come down as well.
We have $1 billion in federal home loan bank debt maturing in the second quarter as well as $50 million in sub debt maturing in the second quarter which should take our debt wholesale funding cost down about $2 million towards the end of the year.
So there are several things that we're doing to make sure that we keep a tight control on expenses.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly just wanted to hear -- if you gave it I missed it -- but any kind of estimate for what you thought maybe loan pull-forward was from maybe this year into the fourth quarter with the strong year-end growth in the loan portfolio whether it was related to the fiscal cliff or what have you? Yes.
Lars do you want to take that? Yes I'd be glad to.
It's a good question.
I think that there were -- there was -- clearly we saw in good volume in the fourth quarter a number of dividend recaps some M&amp;A transactions that were I would say accelerated to take advantage of a more favorable tax environment in the fourth quarter.
Actually nailing that exactly would be a little difficult in what that represented in our overall loan growth.
In addition to that our committed facilities there were clearly some draws on committed facilities.
I think the dealer finance book of business would be a good example where dividends were paid out before the calendar year end.
That would have impacted and maybe created a little bit of window dressing.
I can't nail it exactly for you but it would not have been the majority of our activity for sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us what you're seeing in terms of trends on your -- in your specialty lending areas where you're seeing relatively more loan pricing stability or relatively more pressure whether it'd be Energy or Entertainment or tech or NDS? Lars? Sure.
Obviously we have a very broad array of Middle Market industry groups so without going through each and every one of them I'm just hitting maybe some of the big ones.
We clearly have a great value proposition that we deliver.
We've been in these specialized areas for a very long time have developed strong reputations and I think do receive a premium from a relationship perspective.
Energy has been a very good business to us.
That's obviously becoming more competitive as we see more people in there.
The dealer finance business is very competitive as we see more national players entering that business.
General Middle Market is generally stable but it's competitive.
Our Wealth Management business frankly grew and I wanted to point that out in linked quarters great to see some activity there.
Our Small Business stabilized.
I think pricing there is competitive but hanging in there.
Technology and Life Sciences we continue to get paid a premium.
But we've got a number of other businesses Environmental Services our Entertainment our health and ed.
I'd like to be able to say that any of them are protected from the competitive pricing storm but none are.
So in this environment you got to execute and execute very well your business model and I think that we're doing that.
And that's one of the reasons that we had 17% commercial loan growth this year about $4 billion overall.
I think it's being well received in the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Josh Levin with Citigroup.
This is actually Arjun Sharma on for Josh.
I just had a question on your deposits.
The deposit inflows in 2012 were stronger probably much stronger than most people expected but when rates eventually do rise how do you think about those deposits maybe leaving the balance sheet? Or how do you really model how deposit elasticity would work? I would add a comment there that I think we have seen even with good loan growth during this period deposits continued to grow.
And I think it's a change in approach by a lot of our customers who while are borrowing and moving lines up they are also being very careful to make sure that they have more liquidity than they had in the prior days if you will.
So it's hard to estimate how much you think they will run down.
Some will certainly get used but I don't think it'll go to the levels that it has in the past anytime in the short-term future.
People are going to be more cautious from a liquidity standpoint.
And then just a quick follow-up.
When you think about your new loan origination and that yields have kind of stayed relatively stable over the last couple of quarters when you think about the returns on those loans would you say that ROEs have stayed relatively stable over the last few quarters? I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of how you would think about your incremental ROE for new loan originations? Lars? Yes.
As we look at loans that's an important component of it but we really look at the overall relationship.
And as we've shared before we have a very robust relationship pricing kind of approach and models.
And I would tell you that we are staying very consistent with the expectations for attractive returns for our shareholders with the new business that we're bringing in.
Our position on that hasn't changed at all and I believe that we're going to continue to stay committed to that discipline in '13 and going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just as a follow-up on some of the comments on Commercial Real Estate.
It seems like your outlook is a bit more cautious than what we've seen in some of the industry data.
Can you maybe expand on the comments of demand improving and maybe what geographies you are seeing the most improvement and maybe give some details on which products are actually showing strength? Lars? Sure Ralph.
Yes Nash I think the comments that we've made is that we have seen a slowing in the runoff of that portfolio which I think as Karen had mentioned is a positive message.
We've actually seen volumes of new business closed increase in the fourth quarter included in that.
We're continuing to stay and I'd remind you as very much of an in-footprint core market Commercial Real Estate strategy.
It's very urban market oriented.
It's where we're very active.
You'd see the majority of the projects in the big markets in Texas and in California.
Now multifamily has really been the dominant asset class that we've been active in and the majority of these projects are with developers that we worked with through this past fiscal crisis.
And frankly we trust them.
They trust us.
We were reliable.
They did what they said they were going to do so we feel very good about our customer base.
They are in very strong position.
They're putting in strong equity levels into projects and frankly we continue to see multifamily as a good growth opportunity for us.
But we do watch it carefully and in particular the submarkets for any saturation.
We are seeing a pickup in office activity in Northern California.
The industrial asset class in Southern Cal has certainly strengthened.
And in Texas frankly across a number of different asset classes.
Again though being dominated by multifamily we're seeing good activity.
So I feel optimistic about our Commercial Real Estate operation.
I think we've got some very talented bankers who are well positioned in growth markets.
But it's a business that you got to watch very closely and we're going to do that and we're going to do it consistent with our relationship banking model.
Research Division</strong> Just Karen on the margin it sounds like asset yields are down 11 basis points this quarter.
It sounds like the rate of change could improve over the next couple of quarters.
In terms of the liability cost I mean you took them down 2 basis points again this quarter but do you feel there's still further levers for you to take down whether it's on the deposit side or on -- or further actions you could take on the funding side? And just as a -- on in terms of asset yields you did mention you're maintaining discipline.
Are you seeing significant weakening in structure from others in the marketplace? Yes I'll take the first part of your question and then on the structure in the marketplace I'll let Lars talk about it.
On our margin and the liability cost funding we are the lowest cost deposit provider amongst our peers.
We monitor that on a very granular basis every month and we continue to find opportunities every month that we look at it.
But because it is so low right now on the deposit cost side I'm not sure that that will -- those opportunities will add up to be something meaningful enough for you to see.
On the wholesale funding cost side I did mention that we do have some debt maturing in the fourth quarter both from federal home loan bank debt and some sub debt.
That should take our cost of wholesale funding down around $2 million towards the end of the year.
I'll let Lars answer the other question.
Would you -- could you restate the second part of the question? I want to make sure I answer accurately for you.
Research Division</strong> Just that yes Karen had noted earlier about maintaining discipline in pricing.
Can you just give us a sense if you are seeing weakening of structure from others in the marketplace? From a credit perspective not us? Research Division</strong> Yes credit perspective.
Yes okay.
So yes we're continuing to see some I'd say some weakening of structure in the market in particular areas.
You do see it in Commercial Real Estate frankly in Small Business a little bit Middle Market.
So that is I'd say creeping in a little bit but overall I'd say that structures are largely holding.
We have not changed at all our strategy how we approach our -- from a credit risk and structuring perspective at all.
And then obviously that has not had an impact on our growth rates.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones for you.
Karen I was just curious as we kind of look at that mortgage-backed securities portfolio and the amount of prepayments that we've had out there I was just curious if prepayment speeds slow down maybe like 20% 25% what would that do to the potential margin headwind that is being created currently? If prepayment speeds slow down and we're -- don't need to reinvest at lower yields obviously it will help that picture.
Research Division</strong> But it would be -- maybe it's got like a 3 basis points per quarter headwind today.
Would that go down to maybe 1 or something less than that? Or what's kind of the ballpark that we could think about for potential if these prepayment speeds ever do slow down? Yes I -- it's hard to tell exactly to give you good direction but I would say that your general direction that you described is valid.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
And then just lastly in terms of capital deployment going forward obviously entering the stress test from a very strong position once again just in terms of priorities as you think about the year given the outlook and other opportunities that you have in terms of loan growth and whatever any reason why we shouldn't expect the same type of level of capital deployment going forward? Or are priorities any different in 2013 versus what they were in 2012? I think at this point in time in filing as Karen just talked it's too early to talk about from that standpoint but I would say if you look at our history we've been very focused on either reinvesting the capital or returning it to the shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on my friend Steve's question on capital allocation.
Just acquisitions as a topic Ralph and it seems like Sterling's largely done and it's met your targets.
And I think we all know it was a little painful on the way in from a stock price perspective but it seems like you're pretty satisfied coming out of it.
And just wondering if you could give us updated thoughts on what might or might not make sense for Comerica and if acquisitions are on the radar screen at all.
Well I think as we talked back at the time that we did that that was a very unique strategic acquisition for us because it got us into Houston in a way that increased our presence and gives us the kind of recognition that we need in our footprint and also got us into San Antonio and Kerrville.
And when you look at the footprint today in Texas I'm very satisfied with that.
We have a very good footprint.
We have a very good group of colleagues in the markets and we can grow that internally much like we did with California when we bought the Imperial Bank which was about 10 years before that.
In Southern California we needed that to have the presence and likewise we picked up a number of ideal businesses.
So from the standpoint of having to do an acquisition I would say that's not the case.
We're very comfortable with our footprint.
So it would have to be something that had the kind of return and fill-in that was an investment alternative if you will.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Hurwich with Ulysses Capital.
You mentioned earlier the -- your approach to lending and the relationship banking mindset that you use.
And then you also mentioned that you would see fees rising and yet you see some continued pressure on yields on loans.
So obviously there's a balance going on between trying to keep relationships profitable through the fees and then offsetting some of the loan pressure on the yields.
Could you explain to us a little bit more how you think about that and maybe how that can sustain returns on equity? Lars? Yes.
So yes I think as you pointed out appropriately we look at the whole relationship.
We look at our ability to both provide credit products but also fee-based products.
I mean our mission at Comerica is to help our customers be successful and the way that we do that is by building very deep long-lasting relationships with them.
And to do that you've got to really understand their business and it's one of the reasons that we are more focused than ever on having our bankers spend time in the markets building deep relationships.
And as they do that and deepen their relationship of our customers they're able to provide more products to them.
At the end of the day pricing on a loan or whether you're getting in treasury management you're providing interest rate risk management solutions employee benefits at work.
We really take a look at the total overall returns for our company but we do keep a very close eye on credit pricing.
No question about it as that is a big key driver for our net revenue.
So at the end of the day that model and that approach is working.
I mean we've shown some very nice growth in our disciplined relationship pricing approach.
And frankly we're really seeing some excellent activity level in terms of cross-sell which is a good I think healthy reflection of the activity.
I'd point out the collaboration that we're seeing now today between our commercial customers and well we're seeing record levels of referrals where we're banking the principals and executive officers like we've never seen before.
And I think that really bodes well for us and really speaks to a successful kind of overall review of our customers and the kinds of returns that we expect and for the value proposition we can deliver.
Just as a quick follow-up a little bit difficult to answer I suspect.
Given the balance is there any way for us to think about a bottoming level for the ROE in this type of environment? Yes.
Well Ralph may want to tag on to it but from an ROE perspective I mean we've got internal models where we review each and every customer every product that we do and the overall relationship and it is -- it's hard work.
I mean it's day to day but we're committed to a certain hurdle rate and that's risk adjusted.
We're not going to give up from it.
I mean really as you look at 2012 the environment that we came through I think that's as as good evidence as there is out there about our model and our commitment to disciplined pricing.
It's a very focused model.
I would like to add one comment on the acquisition question that John put forward and underline what I was talking about: from the standpoint of today we feel very comfortable with that footprint.
I won't say that there wouldn't be a strategic opportunity but there would not be many today that would expand that in a way like the other acquisitions that I talked about.
So we would look at most as can you acquire it and put it in play at the same return as you could build it out over a period of time.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-ups.
On the commercial mortgage portfolio obviously the owner-occupied piece has stabilized and you talked a little bit about what seems like a decline at least in the pace of runoff in the kind of -- in the developer side.
But can you talk about on that developer side what kind of the appetite is relative to the owner-occupied piece? Is that a piece you're actively trying to stabilize and grow? Or are you more focused on the owner occupied? Lars? Yes absolutely and depending upon which pages you're looking in the deck or in the actual earnings release.
If you have the FDIC Commercial Real Estate you have both the line of business breakout as well as what I call our relationship our C&amp;I relationships in there too.
And what you'll see in there in that breakout in our earnings is that the -- our line of business construction portfolio grew in linked quarters okay? So that was a real positive.
You'll also see in line of business commercial mortgage that there was a slight decline.
That reflects the increasing volumes of construction loans that we're providing that we talked about but it also reflects the rotation of -- and the activity levels of our developers and accessing the permanent markets.
Those construction loans and lines of business roll to typically mini perms and there has been a lot of activity in rolling those out to the permanent market because it's very very attractive.
The remaining part of Commercial Real Estate in there is really relationship based.
These are factories distribution centers and such and our approach to that real estate is really just building commercial relationships C&amp;I relationships and whether it's adding an additional warehouse it's a trucking fleet or it's equipment we're really underwriting the cash flows for the C&amp;I company.
So we feel very good about as I mentioned our Commercial Real Estate line of business our opportunity to grow that.
And I think as we see out C&amp;I portfolio continue to grow in the future we're going to see owner occupied continue to grow with that.
Research Division</strong> And then Karen on the FHLB debt that's due on second quarter I think you said $1 billion you said the positive effect on funding costs should be about $2 million towards the end of the year.
I assume you mean $2 million per quarter and that should impact basically third and fourth quarters.
Is that correct? No I mean $2 million for the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the timing of the repayment -- or of that debt due in the second quarter will it have an impact on the second quarter? Or will it be mostly backed up [ph] ? Very little impact because it matures towards the end of the second quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have all been answered.
I just want to follow up on the C&amp;I loan yields.
From the Fed data it looks like the average for all large commercial banks the C&amp;I loan yield's around 270.
Is there reason to believe you guys would be in that range below that range above it for new C&amp;I originations? Lars? We're just going to stay focused on pricing our individual opportunities that get us sufficient returns.
So it's very difficult for us to peg that against I think the overall industry and to project that.
But we're going to stay focused on our disciplined relationship pricing model.
And it'll come out where it does but we're going to ensure that we're getting the right kinds of returns on our relationships.
Sir we have no further questions in the queue.
I'd like to turn it over to Ralph Babb for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Well I appreciate your interest and thanks for being on the call today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jackie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Persons please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our first quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements and in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of the presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures.
In that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Before we begin on behalf of our colleagues I want to extend our thoughts and prayers to the victims their families and the entire city of Boston after the tragic events of yesterday.
Today we reported first quarter 2013 earnings per share of $0.70 or $134 million compared to $0.68 or $130 million for the fourth quarter of 2012.
Broad-based average loan growth in each of our primary geographic markets together with tight expense controls contributed to our increased net income in the first quarter.
Turning to Slide 4 and other highlights.
Average total loans grew $498 million compared to the fourth quarter and reflected an increase of $594 million or 2% in commercial loans partially offset by a decrease of $106 million or 1% in commercial real estate loans.
A $356 million decrease in Mortgage Banker Finance was more than offset by broad-based increases in other business lines including general Middle Market National Dealer Services Energy and Technology and Life Sciences.
We expected a decline in Mortgage Banker Finance due to typical seasonal factors as well as the anticipated normalization of mortgage volumes in line with declining refinance activity.
We continue to add new customers and expand existing relationships and the pipeline is strong.
Total first quarter period-end loans were down from a seasonally strong year end yet above the first quarter average demonstrating the positive growth trend we are seeing in the portfolio.
Average deposits decreased $590 million in the first quarter to $50.7 billion primarily reflecting a decrease of $1.3 billion or 6% in noninterest-bearing deposits largely related to our Financial Services division which provides services to title and escrow businesses.
Period-end deposits did not change significantly.
Net interest income declined $8 million in the first quarter primarily reflecting 2 fewer days in the quarter.
The net interest margin increased 1 basis point as excess liquidity declined almost $1 billion.
Noninterest income decreased $4 million to $200 million largely reflecting decreases in customer derivative income and commercial lending fees from high fourth quarter levels.
Our tight expense control was reflected in the decrease in noninterest expenses of $11 million to $416 million in the first quarter mainly due to a decrease in salaries expense.
Credit quality was stable in the first quarter as our strong credit culture continued to be reflected in solid credit quality metrics.
We had lower net charge-offs along with declining nonperforming loans.
The provision for credit losses was basically unchanged from the fourth quarter 2012.
Our strong capital position is a source of strength to support our growth.
We remain focused on total payout to shareholders reflected by share repurchases and dividends while maintaining our strong capital ratios.
We repurchased 2.1 million shares in the first quarter and combined with dividends we returned 77% of first quarter net income to shareholders.
On March 14 we announced that the Federal Reserve had completed its 2013 capital plan review and did not object to our plan and contemplated capital distributions.
Our capital plan includes up to $288 million in share repurchases for the 4-quarter period that ends in the first quarter 2014.
Turning to Slide 5 and a look at our footprint.
We continue to leverage our standing as the largest U.S.
commercial bank headquartered in Texas in order to generate new customer relationships and expand existing ones.
Average loans in Texas in the first quarter were up 3% surpassing a record $10 billion and average deposits increased 2%.
The Texas economy continues to be a growth leader.
Overall job creation in Texas continues to be well above the national average supported by strong drilling activity and manufacturing conditions.
The Texas economy leads the nation in job growth adding 80 600 jobs in February reportedly the biggest monthly gain ever and has averaged nearly 1 000 new jobs a day over the past 12 months.
California was second in job growth with 41 200 jobs added in February.
We continue to be well positioned in California.
The California economy is gaining momentum particularly in Northern California where technology companies in Silicon Valley continue to drive growth.
The rate of private sector job growth in California is above the U.S.
average.
Housing markets there are looking firmer even in harder-hit Southern California.
Average loans in California were up 2% while average deposits were down reflecting declines in our California-based title and escrow business.
In Michigan auto sales have gradually increased.
We expect this trend to continue through 2013.
The economic recovery in Michigan is broadening beyond the auto sector.
Housing markets statewide are improving as sales prices and the rate of new construction all increased.
Average loans and deposits in Michigan were up from the fourth quarter.
In closing we remain focused on growing the bottom line in this low-rate environment.
We are pleased with our continued loan growth tight expense management solid deposit base and credit performance and strong shareholder payout.
Comerica is an enduring company steeped in a long tradition of relationship banking with outstanding customer service as our hallmark.
We believe we are ready for the road ahead and have the right strategy in place to make a positive difference for our shareholders customers and employees.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6.
As Ralph mentioned total average loan growth was $498 million or 1% quarter-over-quarter reflecting a continued increase in commercial loans and a slowing of the decline in commercial real estate loans.
In fact the combined commercial mortgage and real estate construction average loan decreased $106 million down from a decrease of $241 million in the fourth quarter and $344 million in the third quarter of last year.
On the right-hand side average commercial loans were up $594 million and were the main driver of our loan growth.
On the top portion of the bar Mortgage Banker Finance which provides mortgage warehouse lines saw average loans decline $356 million this past quarter driven by lower refinance volume.
As we have said in the past Mortgage Banker outstandings can be volatile and should continue to generally reflect mortgage refinance volume.
As you can see positive trends continued with period-end loans greater than the average in the first quarter.
Period-end loans were down from year end as a result of the strong seasonal growth we had going into the end of the year.
In particular Mortgage Banker was down $687 million on a period-end basis.
Loan yield shown by the yellow diamonds declined 6 basis points in the quarter reflecting the expected decline in purchase loan accretion as well as the continued mix shift of our portfolio and a decline in 30-day LIBOR of 1 basis point.
Our average and period-end loan performance for the quarter was better than the industry as evidenced by the H.8 data.
We believe this is a continued reflection of our geographic footprint and expertise in many diverse industry segments.
General Middle Market average loans have increased 4 of the past 5 quarters with a $262 million increase in the first quarter.
Also National Dealer Services grew average loans $248 million Energy increased $151 million and Technology and Life Sciences grew $122 million.
In our Commercial Real Estate line of business commitments have increased for the past 5 quarters and construction loans grew for the second consecutive quarter up $83 million in the first quarter as demand is improving.
Total loan commitments increased $357 million as of March 31 with commitments increasing in several lines of business.
While our utilization decreased to 47.7% from 49.4% at the end of the fourth quarter the change primarily reflects the decline in Mortgage Banker usage.
Lastly our loan pipeline increased reflecting a solid rebuilding of the pipeline after the robust loan closing activity at the end of last year.
As shown on Slide 7 our total average deposits declined $590 million to $50.7 billion after growing for 6 consecutive quarters.
In particular average deposits declined about $700 million in our Financial Services division which provides services to title and escrow companies.
We also saw deposits decline in several of the businesses that had strong loan growth: Energy Technology and Life Sciences and National Dealer.
We believe this reflects our expectation that deposits will decline as the economy continues to slowly improve and companies use their excess cash in their businesses.
Our average noninterest-bearing deposits declined $1.3 billion while interest-bearing deposits increased $662 million despite the fact that we lowered deposit pricing by 1 basis point as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
Our loan-to-deposit ratio stood at 86% at March 31 down from 88% at year end.
Slide 8 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
The MBS portfolio averaged about $9.6 billion (sic) [$9.8 billion] in the first quarter.
We continue to reinvest prepayments which were about $900 million in the first quarter.
The yield shown in the yellow diamonds declined as a result of purchases of securities with rates in the 1.5% to 1.7% range.
We expect prepayments of approximately $750 million to $850 million in the second quarter assuming rates remain at current levels.
There was no accelerated amortization -- premium amortization recognized in the quarter.
At March 31 the remaining net unamortized premium was about $85 million or under 1% of the portfolio balance.
The average duration on the portfolio remains low at 3.4 years.
We will continue to manage our securities portfolio dynamically taking into account loan and deposit trends along with the current rate opportunities and the unappetizing reality of holding securities at these low rates over the longer term.
Turning to Slide 9.
Our net interest income declined $8 million in the first quarter primarily due to 2 fewer days in the quarter which had a $7 million impact.
Our net interest margin increased 1 basis point.
We've summarized in the table on the right the major moving pieces in the first quarter.
Loan growth contributed $4 million to net interest income and helped offset the impact of lower accretion and the continued low-rate environment.
While we remain focused on holding spreads for new and renewed credit facilities there are still several mix shift dynamics impacting the loan portfolio including high-yielding commercial mortgage loans being replaced by lower-yielding C&amp;I loans older fixed-rate loans maturing as well as positive credit migration.
All of these factors combined had a $2 million or 1 basis point impact on the net interest margin which has been trending down over the past couple of quarters indicative of the slowing of the impact.
Also approximately 85% of our loans are floating rate of which 75% are LIBOR-based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
Average 30-day LIBOR declined 1 basis point in the first quarter and had a $1 million or 1 basis point impact on the margin.
Accretion of the purchase discount on the acquired loan portfolio contributed $11 million which was a decline of $2 million in the quarter or 1 basis point on the margin.
We have about $46 million of total accretion remaining to be realized on the acquired portfolio.
Accretion should continue to trend downward each quarter and we expect to recognize accretion at the upper end of the range we previously communicated of about $20 million to $30 million in 2013.
In aggregate total loan-related items had only $1 million or 3 basis point negative impact on the margin.
Dynamics in the securities portfolio including prepayments being reinvested at lower rates as well as lower average balance had a $2 million or 1 basis point negative impact.
Lower deposit costs added $2 million and provided a 1 basis point increase to the margin.
And finally average excess liquidity decreased almost $1 billion increasing the net interest margin by 4 basis points.
Our asset-sensitive balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
Based on our historical experience and asset liability model we believe a 200 basis point annual increase in rate equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in an increase in net interest income between $175 million and $185 million.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 10.
Credit quality continued to be strong in the first quarter.
As you can see by the yellow diamonds net charge-offs decreased to 21 basis points of average loans or $24 million.
The chart on the right shows our watch list loans were stable increasing modestly by $22 million to $3.1 billion or 7% of total loans.
While our nonperforming loans decreased $26 million.
Our provision for credit losses of $16 million was unchanged from the fourth quarter.
With the decline in nonperforming loans the allowance to NPLs increased to 120%.
In addition the average carrying value of our nonaccrual loans is about 55% and the $617 million allowance is now over 6x the annualized first quarter net charge-offs.
Slide 11 outlines noninterest income.
First quarter customer-driven fees decreased from high fourth quarter levels including commercial lending fees which were down $4 million following robust year-end closing activity.
Customer derivative income which is included in other noninterest income declined $5 million from an elevated level in the fourth quarter as well as from impact given new regulation which prescribes the size and types of customers with whom derivatives can be transacted and requires full reporting of each customer trade.
A $3 million increase in service charges on deposit accounts was a result of seasonal service charges partially offset by higher earnings credit earned on higher deposit balances around year end.
Noncustomer-related categories increased $2 million to $16 million primarily due to a $2 million increase in deferred compensation asset return which was completely offset in noninterest expense.
Turning to Slide 12.
We continue to maintain tight expense control which resulted in an $11 million decrease in expenses in the first quarter.
Salaries decreased $8 million and reflected a $3 million impact from 2 fewer days in the quarter and a $4 million decline in severance partially offset by an increase in deferred compensation asset return which as I mentioned is completely offset in noninterest income.
In addition employee benefits increased $4 million mainly due to higher pension expense.
While occupancy restructuring and other real estate expenses declined a total of $7 million in the first quarter.
We continue to carefully manage our workforce which has decreased 3% over the past year as shown on the bottom chart on the slide.
Moving to Slide 13 and capital.
In the first quarter we completed our 2012 capital plan with the repurchase of 2.1 million shares under our share repurchase program.
Combined with dividends paid we returned 77% of net income to shareholders in the first quarter.
Shares repurchased were partially offset by about 700 000 shares from options exercised as well as employee grants that primarily occur in the first quarter.
As Ralph mentioned the Federal Reserve completed its review and did not object to Comerica's 2013 capital plan last month.
The plan includes up to $288 million in stock repurchase for the 4-quarter period ending March 31 2014.
We believe our shareholder payout which is one of the highest among our peers is a reflection of our strong capital position with a 10.4% Tier 1 common capital ratio and an estimated Basel III Tier 1 common capital ratio of 9.4% on a fully phased-in basis.
Finally turning to Slide 14 and our outlook.
Our expectations for full year 2013 compared to full year 2012 remains unchanged from what we outlined on our call in January with the exception of noninterest income.
We are now expecting noninterest income to be relatively stable year-over-year.
Our success with cross-sell initiatives and selective pricing adjustments is expected to be partially offset by greater-than-anticipated regulatory pressure on certain products such as customer derivatives.
The outlook does not include noncustomer-driven income as it's difficult to predict.
I'd like to remind you that our outlook for expenses is that they will decrease from the full year 2012 level even after you remove restructuring expenses which totaled $35 million last year and are now complete.
In this slow-growing economy we will continue to focus on the things we can control: allocating resources to our faster growing markets and industry segments driving cross-sell opportunities and carefully managing expenses.
In closing we are pleased with our continued loan growth tight expense management solid deposit base and credit performance and strong shareholder payout and we remain keenly focused on delivering a growing bottom line.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with net interest income now down $20 million or so year-over-year I guess the guidance for lower spread revenue is really a function just of the starting point.
My question is with the Sterling accretion and premium amortization both looking like they're going to be less of a headwind in coming quarters do you see yourself in a position to grow net interest income through the year from this first quarter level? Yes.
Steve on net interest income we are not changing our overall guidance for the year which is that we expect net interest income to be lower year-over-year due in part to the fact that we had $71 million of accretion last year and we are expecting $20 million to $30 million of accretion this year.
We do see a continued impact of the low-rate environment and we are focused on having loan growth offset that impact.
We are seeing some positive trends this quarter but too early to call the rest of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But Karen if the Sterling accretion should decline right in the coming quarters given where we were relative to the full year outlook and I think you're saying that the prepayments on the MBS book will be lower too so would you at least agree that the headwinds should lessen over the next couple of quarters? Yes that is true that the Sterling accretion will decline each quarter.
Very difficult to talk about the premium amortization on the securities portfolio because that's dependent on things outside of our control.
But yes we are seeing a general slowing of the headwinds.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the expenses the headcount continues to grind lower.
How much lower can you push that? Can you give us some color on which areas you're still finding opportunity to reduce headcount? Yes.
We are very focused on managing expenses as you know.
Our outlook for the year was lower based on the impact of no restructuring costs this year as well as taking those expenses down further.
Some of what you're seeing on the expenses though are the focus on efficiencies that we had last year that will impact us from a full year run rate this year.
And you're starting to see that in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But should we continue to expect headcount to go -- to decline this year? Is that what you're budgeting? We are focused on managing our headcount appropriately and continuing to find efficiencies.
I won't discuss what our headcount budget is going forward but we are continuing to find efficiencies.
That said we did have a strong quarter this year on expenses and there were some expenses like 2 less days in the quarter that impacted us positively this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes just a couple of quick ones on some of the loan growth trends.
And I know you had a little bit of dip in the period-end balance.
This quarter just kind of wondering maybe what were some of those kind of puts and takes on those drivers.
And then as you look forward you still expect to see good growth going forward.
How much of the new pipeline is still coming from new customers firstly? And then secondly do you feel that you'll be able to kind of reverse the slowing pace of decline in CRE and actually grow that by year end? Lars? Yes I'd be glad to take that.
I think that's actually a really good story.
As I think Karen covered with you we had very diverse growth for the first quarter.
There was no kind of home run in there.
It's general Middle Market.
It was Dealer our Technology and Life Sciences.
We did overcome some of that mortgage banking finance back up there of just over $350 million but we also saw growth Stephen in health and in Environmental Services.
Our Small Business portfolio actually stabilized which was I think a real positive up very moderately.
And our Wealth Management business it grew on record referrals between the commercial bank and to Wealth Management.
So I think all of those businesses if you think about it on a go-forward basis I think are all positioned to grow in the future quarters and that's where we've been reallocating some resources.
Specifically to your point about Commercial Real Estate it was a big quarter for us.
While we did see the averages on a linked quarter decline you did see the end-of-period balances rise and that was very positive.
And that was on the back of residential single-family construction and multifamily construction in our portfolio as well as mini perm growth in our multifamily.
And that again is very consistent in our big-growth markets urban markets in Texas and California.
So I can't put my finger on one particular thing and I think that's one of the strengths.
We're getting the growth across all our core markets and across a number of our businesses.
Research Division</strong> That sounds great.
And then is about 2/3 of that pipeline still coming from new customers overall? Yes it is about 2/3 though one thing I'd point out is when you look at a pipeline of new versus -- new to new versus new to existing kind of the pull-through on that pipeline tends to be very much higher on your new to existing so I wouldn't exactly use that as a proxy of how we're going to get all of our growth.
But it looks very healthy.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a little bit of color on line utilization? What was the line utilization change if you exclude the mortgage warehouse for the quarter? Lars? Yes absolutely.
Yes.
So we did see as you may recall in the fourth quarter we saw line utilization run up.
That's an end-of-period calculation but we saw that reverse end of period to the end of the first quarter.
And that number did back down.
It was down about 170 basis points.
But frankly if you look at the change in the end-of-period mortgage banking finance that was down $686 million.
So that represented almost 70% of the decline.
Really the balance of it was Technology and Life Sciences and that was down just frankly to a few capital call facilities.
They were paid down at the end of the year.
And that's just normal kind of movement.
So I would characterize line utilizations for the bank as really stable.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
So -- and then you might have already mentioned it but just in terms of what type of demand you're seeing on the Commercial Real Estate front can you talk about what you're seeing there in terms of the drawdowns on some of the lines related to projects there? Right yes.
So over the past year I've been sharing with you all how much we've been doing in terms of closing volumes in Commercial Real Estate but I've also pointed out that these are very very well-capitalized projects and a lot of equity has been plowed into these projects ahead of the senior debt that we're putting in.
We're beginning to see that line utilization hit.
We're beginning to see these projects get funded with some of our dollars which I think is very positive.
And then we're seeing a number of them roll out into mini perms which of course are fully funded facilities which is very positive.
Those may stay with us for 6 months.
They may stay with us for 3 years because the extra strategies of course on those is either to refinance them to the perm market to redevelop on them to broader projects if they have adjacent property kind of available or to sell the project.
And frankly as cap rates have moved around we see the -- our developers have wavering kind of volumes going to the permanent market which impacts some of those outstandings.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
Then lastly just on the margin Karen.
I know you don't really give too much guidance here but just given the benefit you saw from excess liquidity starting to come off and seems like you're seeing some bottoming here on the downside risk to the securities book and then the abating Sterling accretion is it fair to assume that we are likely to bump -- to bounce around a bottom here in terms of the margin without significant incremental downside? Yes.
John the big wild card there is excess liquidity and where that goes.
But we do see a slowing of the other impacts of the trends.
I won't predict margin obviously because I can't but the big wild card is excess liquidity.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Thomas LeTrent on behalf of Paul.
I just have a couple of quick questions.
So C&amp;I we've heard from I guess a couple of your competitors that the rates are getting very competitive in that segment.
Can you talk a little bit about that what you're seeing? Lars? Sure.
I would say we haven't really seen a significant change from say the last quarter which I had characterized as I think I used the term a fistfight every day out there in the marketplace.
It is very very competitive.
It used to be that the California markets were the most competitive for us but it's really leached into I think the Midwest into Michigan into Texas and frankly into a lot of the other businesses.
So it just means you got to be better than ever spending more time with your customers and prospects developing deeper deeper relationships than ever before.
And that's really what we're focused on.
But I have not yet seen any relief there in terms of how competitive the pricing is.
There are particular segments though that I would point out where it may be exceptionally aggressive.
And in those cases we've made a very conscious decision to stay very focused on our relationship-pricing approach.
And frankly if it moves outside of our pricing envelope or our risk envelope if covenants and structure begins to fall away that's okay.
It's one of the strengths of Comerica is we've got great markets.
We got a lot of diverse businesses we're in.
And we're not so big that we can't be nimble to reallocate those resources and find the growth where we can.
We're up $3.3 billion in commercial loans; in the last year over 13%.
And so I think we've proven we've been able to kind of adapt to that competitive market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then one quick follow-up.
I think last quarter on the call you guys were talking about how you viewed I guess loan rates overall as relatively stable on outside of accretable yield.
Do you still feel that's the case? Yes I think loan rates are stable at a pretty darn aggressive level yes.
But I'd like -- on the overall portfolio though we are continuing to see a declining yields based on the overall portfolio mix shift.
So while absolute loan rates are stable to customers there is an impact on the portfolio.
And maybe just additional follow-up to Karen's point one of the things we really focus on is the loan spreads.
We got to make sure that we're covering our cost to capital; it's risk adjusted.
And if I look back in our commercial businesses here for the last 5 consecutive quarters our loan spreads have held.
And so I just think again it's evidence of our discipline and frankly trying to find the opportunities in the market where we can in industries and markets that we understand and know.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Robert Placet from Matt's team.
Just first in terms of your outlook for fee revenues being flat in 2013 year-over-year this implies some modest upside from the $200 million 1Q level so I guess I was curious if you could just talk to some of the biggest growth opportunities in fees from here.
Karen? Sure.
We are very focused as we've talked about in the past on fee growth and on increased collaboration across our lines of business around driving that fee growth.
So really it's being driven by the keen focus that we've got on it and increased collaboration.
And Lars I don't know if you'd want to add anything.
Yes.
No I think you made the point well.
There is certainly a heightened focus and -- but it plays to our strengths.
I mean we've been a relationship-oriented bank for a very very long period of time.
It's how we've earned premium and how we've built long and enduring customer relationships.
So I just think this is one of those challenges in the road as we have some headwinds and some of the capital markets areas that Karen touched on and it creates maybe some -- just some challenges there.
But frankly we've made some investments into our card programs Direct Express.
We're one of the largest issuers of commercial cards for travel entertainment programs in the country.
It's great to see our fiduciary income in wealth begin to really get some lift.
We got some great things going on there in asset management.
So I look at treasury management.
We've continued to make product investments there and I think all of those create a very attractive long-term value proposition for Comerica.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then secondly looking on Slide 8 the duration of your securities portfolio increased again this quarter to 3.4 years up from 3 years last quarter I believe.
I was just curious if you could speak to that increase and if you've changed your strategy at all in terms of what you're buying there.
Our strategy on what we're buying has not changed.
Keep in mind the duration each quarter on our portfolio is the factor of what is rolling off as well as what is rolling on.
We continue to manage our portfolio very conservatively.
What I would add is that when we look at an extension risk of an up 200 basis points scenario a shock to the yield curve you'll see that the maturity for the portfolio has not changed quarter-over-quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could help us understand a little bit more on the deposits.
With total or average total deposits being down -- but you obviously highlighted the period end was flat -- what does this imply for excess liquidity going forward? And how much visibility do you have in the sort of deposit inflows and outflows of the escrow business? Yes.
On excess liquidity that's obviously managed fluidly and you're right Ken it's the factor of both deposit and some growth.
We'd much rather have -- be invested in loans than we would in deposits at the Fed.
So as we see loan growth and as deposits fluctuate that excess liquidity will move around.
I don't know if that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> Maybe a different question.
If deposit balances were flat period end versus period end should we see an increase in excess liquidity in the second quarter versus first? Yes.
Excess liquidity is a factor of both loans and deposits so should we see it flat it really depends on overall loan growth.
But ideally we would like to see excess liquidity coming down and being invested in loan growth.
I think one of the positive things we saw too was in the businesses that grew that Lars was talking about earlier we started to see deposits go down which tends to be a signal that they're starting to invest in the short term.
Now that may not be long term.
It's more for current demand I believe because everybody's being very cautious.
But that's a positive signal from that standpoint.
The other one is our title escrow business can go up and down as we've seen a lot depending on what home sales are or refinancing is in any one quarter which will drive that excess liquidity up or down as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick question in terms of the customer-driven noninterest income that I guess used to be up and now it should be stable.
Seemed like the rationale was just increased regulatory scrutiny I suppose.
Was there anything specific that changed it? Or is this just kind of your general feeling about the regulatory environment has changed? It's our focus on going forward.
We're seeing an impact currently and seeing -- thinking that that is likely to persist particularly on our derivative income where the new regulation dictates the size and type of customers where -- who we can transact derivatives with as well as requires full reporting of each trade.
And because of that new regulation we are seeing an impact and expecting that to continue.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is Ebrahim on in behalf of Erika.
I just [indiscernible].
Erika? We can't hear you.
The question has been withdrawn.
Your next question comes from the line Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you can just expand a little bit on the just the Mortgage Banker business understanding the seasonality and understanding your point about pipelines being strong.
Can you just again remind us about how balances tend to track either applications or originations? Lars? Sure.
So we provide -- just as little backdrop we provide warehouse financing working capital financing that bridges the difference between the time when a mortgage loan is originated and when an investor buys that or a pool of mortgage loans.
That's simply what we do.
So we are subject to see variations in those lines of credit as mortgage application volumes rise or fall typically driven by interest rates.
Frankly that has a lot to do with it.
We have throughout the year shared with you though we have seen some variation that's been the results of investor constraints their ability to frankly purchase enough of the volumes that have been held on those warehouse lines.
So that has given us maybe a little bit higher levels than we otherwise would have realized throughout the year.
So I would watch mortgage rates.
For us we actually have significantly changed the blend from about 70-30 refi to purchase and we finished up this particular quarter at about 50-50 purchase versus refi which is a pretty dramatic change and I think it's a very positive one.
It reflects on the improvement in the national housing economy and frankly the fact that the -- our mortgage customers are very active out there on the purchase market working closely with Realtors.
We also have a number of very tight relationships with some large national homebuilders that are feeding us a lot of purchase volumes.
So fortunately the results of that plus the fact that we have a very strong pipeline we're bringing in new mortgage companies every single month.
I do think that the more granular the broader base of customers in this business is creating a bit of a insulation on the downside.
As maybe we do see a reduction in mortgage volumes.
It's going to be spread over a lot more customers at Comerica.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And in that business can you give us an idea of what the average yield is on the Mortgage Banker book versus the 3/31 of the whole commercial book? Well unless it's in the earnings deck broken out I don't think is -- I really can't do that.
But what I would tell you is this.
It is a very attractive business.
It has some of the highest cross-sell we've got.
90% plus of our customers have treasury management products with us which I think is a good lead indicator of who their lead bank is and lender.
And frankly I would tell you this is a very attractive business to us.
This is subject to that same disciplined relationship pricing model and we get returns that are very attractive to our shareholders.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question just on efficiency ratio Karen it's been around 68% for a few quarters now and I'm just wondering -- I know you have that long long terms under 60 with higher rates and heard your comments about what rates mean for NII still but versus where we still currently are at 68% can you make progress on the efficiency ratio from here without rates going up? Yes thanks for your question.
Our efficiency ratio while it has been rounding to 68% quarter-over-quarter if you look outside of the rounding it has been trending down appropriately.
We did lay out as you may recall our long-term target to be under 60% last year and we talked about what it takes to get there.
It takes loan growth fee growth expense management and a bit of a rate uptick from where we are today.
So we're tracking on all of those first 3 things and we can move the needle without rate.
But to ultimately reach our goal we will need a slightly higher rate environment but clearly not a normal rate environment.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> This is Ebrahim in behalf of Erika.
Yes apologize for that previously.
I just wanted to follow up on your comments in the question on deposits and excess liquidity means.
Thanks Karen for providing color in terms of the potential for deposits probably trending lower as the economy picks up and businesses draw down on balances.
So should we sort of expect that if that were the case we should see a steady decline in securities portfolio both in absolute dollar terms and in terms of the percentage of earning assets going forward? Yes thanks for the question.
On the securities portfolio just like excess deposit we would much rather be invested in loans.
So yes as we see deposit potentially be used for customer use rather than sitting on our balance sheet and loan growth we would expect to not only have our excess liquidity decline but have our securities portfolio decline as well.
Research Division</strong> Got that.
And I guess one last question just in terms of should we -- you guys haven't made any comments about the dividend post the stress test.
Should we anticipate a potential similar increase in the second quarter like last year or...
On dividends we did increase our dividend in January last year from $0.15 to $0.17.
That was part of the 2012 capital plan.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But as part of the 2013 capital plan could there be potentially another dividend increase in the second or third quarter of this year? The review of dividends is really the purview of the board and they will look at the dividends as we move forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Turner with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> I understand the Fed recently about 3 weeks ago put out new guidance on the leveraged loans and I believe it was really unchanged since the initial proposals a year ago.
But I'm curious of what the impact of those that new guidance is.
And then also secondarily if you have any comments on maybe what today's environment is relative to the '06 '07 time frame? Okay.
John? Yes.
Thanks for the question Mike.
We've been working on this new definition for sometime along with everybody else in the industry as well.
It is different than prior guidance.
So we're all learning how to apply it as we go forward.
Frankly it's just too early to tell what the overall impact would be but we think the rule is a reasonable one and we will certainly comply going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> And how is this -- maybe if you could give us some color on the environment today relative to say the '06 '07 time frame for levered loans like the lending environment? I think it would be fair to say in '06 '07 given the rather frothy state of the economy at that time there were certainly more of those opportunities in the marketplace.
We are seeing an increased level certainly increased from the depths of the recession of late.
So I suspect we will continue to see more of those as the economy continues to improve.
We are maintaining our disciplines our credit policies and considering them on a case-by-case basis.
We are able to do some of those loans and some frankly we are not.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin St.
Pierre with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on noninterest-bearing deposits and sensitivity and dynamics there.
Could you tell us -- embedded in your sensitivity to that 200 basis point rise in rates which is about a 10% increase in net interest income what are you assuming that -- what are you seeing around the noninterest-bearing deposit dynamics in that simulation? Karen? In that simulation we do expect deposits to decline as the economy improves and as customers hopefully are using their deposits to grow their businesses.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Could you quantify that or...
No we have not quantified it because it's a range analysis.
It is based on history and is based on some of our thoughts around our large deposits that we currently have on the books.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to maybe get an update Ralph if you could on M&amp;A and if you're seeing any increased activity in terms of people looking to pair up with you and maybe your appetite for acquisitions in the next couple of quarters.
As I've said in the past from an appetite standpoint we are very comfortable with our footprint today.
And when you look at the numbers and especially the loan growth that we're seeing in the Texas and California markets as well as the Michigan markets we have a very good position in the urban markets that we're focused on.
That means our list of strategic opportunities is shorter than it was.
I won't say that it -- there aren't those that don't exist out there today that we would have an interest in.
I think overall what you're seeing is a slowness in the M&amp;A market primarily due to some of the uncertainties in the capital requirements and people are focusing on being conservative at the time until they get a better feel for where they can go from a leverage standpoint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly I just wanted to follow up on some comments about expenses.
I was hoping to get maybe a little more color around just the kind of the branch network and what kind of changes you might be making to your branch profile whether in Texas in California or also in Michigan? Well I think if you remember our strategy has been not -- we're not a mass market retail bank.
We put our banking centers in locations that not only provide retail access but wealth access small business middle market and that's been very important for us.
Therefore we don't have the footprint that many do that are dealing with the current issues.
We are constantly looking at our model and bringing our model from -- and what I mean by model is the size of a banking center and that size has been coming down for a period of time now as we look for new areas to open.
So it's very much a point of being in branding and being in the right places for the types of businesses that we have and that we do.
And we want multiple access in -- for multiple businesses.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been asked.
Just a couple of quick questions on expenses first.
Other than the 2 days were there any other seasonal increases in the expense base related to payroll taxes? And second what were litigation costs in the quarter? Yes.
On increases we said when we gave the outlook that we did expect increases for the year on things like pension and payroll which shows up in employee benefits.
And so you're seeing that in the first quarter and that should continue throughout the year.
On legal expenses that was down but that can be volatile.
Your next question comes from Josh Levin with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Maybe you could talk about on the loan growth front when you talk to your customers what are you hearing from your customers today versus their confidence and their outlook for their businesses in the broader economy versus what you might have been hearing a few months ago? I think today we are hearing continued caution.
People are making good money as I would describe it and especially in the businesses that Lars went over earlier.
But they're being cautious.
They're not investing for the same term that they would have invested for in the past.
They're really investing to meet current demand.
Lars you want to add anything to that? Yes.
No I think you hit it well.
I think there's still a very much of a guarded kind of position relative to making any significant investments.
It's I'd say a reserved atmosphere and clearly I think if you look at the first quarter of the year it was very quiet economically.
And I think that was a reflection of continued uncertainty from our customers and our prospects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally when you think about the percentage of your business that comes from Midwest now versus the percentage of your business that comes from Texas and California are you happy with where it is now? Or do you want to continue to see a shift away from the Midwest to Texas and California? How should we think about that from a longer-term perspective? Well the Midwest is a very important market for us and has been and will continue to be.
And as I mentioned earlier in my remarks the Michigan economy is coming back.
The growth profile of Texas and California as we've mentioned in the past is beginning to accelerate.
And now we have a good balance of markets which was one of the key strategies was to be balanced.
And when you look at that today we're getting close to being almost 1/3 in each market.
California market and the Michigan market are very close to being equal today.
And as I mentioned earlier we passed $10 million in the Texas markets so it's about $3 billion-plus behind in the loan book I believe and is growing quite well.
So the strategy for us is working well to balance out the geographic markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-up questions.
First of all in terms of the yield on the residential mortgage portfolio that actually seemed to increase about 15 basis points quarter-over-quarter.
And I guess if you haven't already mentioned this I'm just curious as to what the driver of that increase was and if that's potentially sustainable.
Yes that -- the increase is really driven by fourth quarter significant decrease really around changing NALs in that portfolio.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on a go-forward basis we should think about the 4.39% number as a reasonable starting point for the next couple of quarters? I think that's a reasonable starting point.
Obviously it's a small portfolio and it can be impacted by small swings.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
And I guess just following up on your comments about the fee revenue guidance I noticed -- and maybe I'm mixing issues here but it looks like in the Wealth Management business profitability in that business over the past year has actually risen quite visibly on a percentage basis largely due to credit improvement but not much revenue improvement.
Does the commentary that you're talking about relative to fee revenue have much to do with Wealth Management? And if not how do you intend to grow that revenue? Actually in Wealth Management our fees have been increasing nicely.
You'll see a line item for fiduciary fees which is our Wealth Management business and you'll see that increasing nicely.
One of the impacts on the overall or the key impact on the overall revenue for our segment reporting or our line of business reporting is the funds transfer pricing that we have internally on our deposits and our loans.
So -- but on a fee basis I would point to the fact that fees are actually increasing in the Wealth business.
And I would add to that and as Lars speaks to a lot and Curt does as well that the interplay between our major businesses and the cross-sell and the teamwork is -- has risen a lot and that has been a real plus for the organization because we're seeing good growth in those fee-based areas.
Lars you have anything to add to that? No Ralph I think you hit it well.
I think it's one of our best growth opportunities for noninterest income for our company.
We have as you know a very rich Middle Market book of business that frankly I think that we can achieve much higher cross-sell rates into the partners principals owners executives of these companies as we have a go-forward basis.
And Curt and I are working closely together with some very talented Wealth Management colleagues with the right kinds of products for advisory fiduciary.
I think we're very well positioned to drive that in the future.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on that have you put out any guidance in terms of what you hope that growth rate might be relative to the overall revenue growth rate of the company? We have not.
No.
No we have not but I would assure you that the leadership in our commercial businesses have this on their scorecard.
They have it in their annual review.
And this is a very very important part of their future.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with the G.A.
Davidson (sic) [D.A.
Davidson].
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions just to go back to the escrow and deposit -- excuse me escrow and title deposit business.
Can you give us an idea of what your balances are in that business and maybe you highlight the end-of-period trend from 12/31 to March 31? Lars? Yes let me just find the exact balances.
Karen you...
Yes I'm looking.
Okay let's see.
So our deposit balances in our FSD business are around -- and then they can fluctuate but average for the quarter was around fourth quarter yes a little over $3 billion.
Yes so...
Research Division</strong> Sorry that was average for the first quarter Karen? Yes.
Yes.
And I -- to characterize maybe that a little bit there are -- quarter-to-quarter you may not see as much variation but it kind of comes in waves and I think as Ralph referenced earlier it does -- there is some correlation to the mortgage markets the amount of closings activities that are going on.
But I would also tell you that some of the variation that we see in that businesses is as we bring in new customers.
This has been a growth business for us and as we bring those relationships in some of them bring substantial deposits with us.
And I would leave you with one last point there: We are very focused on ensuring that this cost to deposits are very rational relative to our company needs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you gave us in the press release the average balances for title escrow the average numbers from fourth quarter to first quarter just hoping to get a sense of how big is basically entire finance -- how much of that $3 billion of Financial Services division would be escrow and title? I would be guessing to give you the exact number but it would be a significant part of those deposits.
We do have a few other types of companies that we work with.
I'll give you an example large law firms some institutional deposits that we go to work for them but that would be the biggest driver of our deposit base.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the construction portfolio you've highlighted single family and multifamily.
Can you give just any sense of pockets of particular strength where you're lending into or where demand has gotten particularly stronger? Okay.
I missed one word in there.
Could you repeat that? Research Division</strong> I was just -- on the construction segment you talked about growth there in single-family residential as well as multifamily just wondering if you could give some sense as to any pockets of strength geographically and where you guys are particularly focused on putting your money to work.
Right right okay.
So that hasn't changed.
We're very focused on the Texas and the California markets the urban markets the Houstons and Austins.
And as you look at the Dallas-Fort Worth area very rich.
If you look at the really San Francisco Northern Cal Bay Area very interesting Silicon Valley as well as even in Southern Cal.
So depending upon what the asset class is depends upon what we're active in.
For example there's less activity in Southern Cal in single family.
There's a lot of activity in Northern Cal but we're starting to see pickup in the industrial class in Southern Cal which I think is a real positive.
You're seeing multiple classes of assets in Northern Cal.
Activity levels pick up but it's still dominated by multifamily.
If you look at Texas again dominated by multifamily.
But again we're seeing broader asset classes become very interested -- interesting to us.
One thing that has not changed is we're very focused on primarily doing business with developers that have gone through the cycle with that have followed through on doing what they said they were going to do.
And we did for them the same things where we developed very strong relationships.
They're well-capitalized projects.
And frankly I'm very encouraged.
If you just look at those end-of-period numbers I think that that bodes well for us for this line of business.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom with Art Capital (sic) [RBC Capital].
LLC Research Division</strong> Jon Arfstrom RBC.
Just a couple of quick ones.
The Midwest you've touched on it but it's the first time in a long time and it looks like you had upped loans sequentially.
I'm just curious if there's anything specific there or if you feel like it's broad based and it's likely hit the bottom in terms of loan balances.
Lars? Yes.
So obviously we were very pleased to see that kind of growth.
It was our leading state actually in growth in terms of balances so that was very positive.
It was driven really primarily by 2 categories: general Middle Market so you would guess that a good amount of that would be driven by the automotive recovery suppliers and such middle market companies there that draw -- drew on their facilities but also began to make some investments; and then our dealer business.
Our dealer business in frankly Michigan and the Midwest has really picked up and I think that that's a real positive for us.
So is this -- did we hit bottom was I think part of your question.
Very difficult to tell but I think it was a great step in the right direction and speaks to the health in the improving Michigan economy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Karen a quick one for you.
Any art to the buyback pace? Or is it just -- my caveman math says you take the current pace and multiply it by 4 and that exhausts what you've got for the next 4 quarters? Is that fair? That is fair.
We are -- we try to be in the market every day that we can.
We don't pretend to be soothsayers on the market or try to market time.
So I think your comment is fair.
Your final question comes from the line of Joe Stieven with Stieven Capital.
L.P.</strong> Ralph mine sort of follows up on Jon Arfstrom's comments.
When you look at your capital which is great and your asset quality is great what do you feel? And so I'm not asking for a prediction but what do you feel is the right level of capital that tangible common basis that you need to run your business sort of in a -- in the new world order? That's question number one.
And then question number two is how much flexibility do you have in your stress test CCAR submissions to -- because even now you guys are paying out one of the highest ratios of everybody but your capital is still building and growing? So do you have the ability just sort of go back and say yes we're still building capital.
We don't want to -- maybe buy a little bit more before next year? Or is it still just like going up to the great Wizard of Oz and getting your blessing? So that's it.
Okay thank you.
Well I think the answer to your question there is the uncertainty that's out there.
As you've seen there are a number of different focuses on what is the right capital structure including Basel III.
There's been other suggestions put forth.
And until we understand exactly what those rules are I think it's premature to estimate what it may be for us on the longer term.
Historically as well we have always been conservative on the capital side and I think that has held up well in the downturn that we saw.
And we will certainly continue to do that as well.
But until there's certainty until the rules are adopted I think it's too early yet to indicate where we want to be like we have in the past which we will do hopefully again when we know those rules and can make that decision.
And we've always been very transparent as to what our focus is.
Karen do you want to add anything to that? Yes.
Just to put some color around what Ralph said in the past you may recall that we did have a public capital range under which we operated.
So our shareholders knew that and they knew the kind of payback that we would do over and above that capital range.
Once the rules are final and clear we would like to go back to doing what we had in the past.
As Ralph said just too early right now.
And on the stress test in capital plan yes we do come at it from a position of strength and that is one of the reasons that our capital payout -- that our payout ratio is one of the highest amongst our peers.
But each year is a different year and we'll have a new test in a new year next year.
That was our final question and I'd like to turn the floor back to Ralph Babb for any closing remarks.
Well we appreciate everybody being on this morning and thanks for the discussion.
And I hope everyone has a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
My name is Monserat and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Ms.
Darlene Persons.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Monserat.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our second quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional detail on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements and in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in this release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures.
And in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported second quarter 2013 earnings of $0.76 per share or $143 million compared to $0.70 per share or $134 million for the first quarter of 2013.
Average loan growth fee income growth expense control and continued solid credit quality contributed to our 9% increase in earnings per share in the second quarter.
Turning to Slide 4 and other highlights.
Average total loans grew $276 million compared to the first quarter and reflected an increase of $337 million or 1% in commercial loans.
Our Middle Market business lines across all 3 of our major geographies were the key contributor to our loan growth in the second quarter.
Overall customers remain cautious but relatively more positive in this slow-growing economy.
Average total deposits increased $756 million or 1% in the second quarter primarily reflecting an increase of $570 million or 3% in noninterest-bearing deposits.
Net interest income remained relatively stable in the second quarter declining $2 million as the contribution from an additional day in the quarter and loan growth were offset by the decline in accretion on the acquired portfolio and the impact from continued shifting loan portfolio dynamics.
The net interest margin decreased 5 basis points primarily due to lower accretion on the acquired loan portfolio and lower loan yields due to the continued mix shift in the portfolio.
Credit quality was solid in the second quarter with net charge-offs of 15 basis points which is the lowest level since the first quarter of 2007.
Nonaccrual loans also decreased as did watch list loans.
These positive metrics are indicative of our strong credit culture and have resulted in a $3 million decrease in the provision for credit losses.
Noninterest income increased $8 million in the second quarter to $208 million reflecting broad-based growth in several categories as well as an annual incentive received from our third-party credit card provider.
Noninterest expenses of $416 million in the second quarter were unchanged from the first quarter reflecting our continued tight expense controls.
Our capital position continues to be a source of strength to support our growth.
We repurchased 1.9 million shares in the second quarter under our share repurchase program and combined with dividends returned 72% of second quarter net income to shareholders.
On July 2 the Federal Reserve approved its final version of the Basel III capital rules.
We estimate that our June 30 2013 Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio is 10.1% on a fully phased-in basis.
This is well in excess of the minimum requirement to be considered well-capitalized and assumes we elect to exclude most elements of accumulated other comprehensive income.
Turning to Slide 5 and a look at our footprint.
We are well-positioned in our primary markets where our relationship-based approach and experience combined to make a positive difference for our customers.
Our strategy is to have balance between our markets and we are making meaningful progress.
Texas continues to be a growth leader for the U.S.
economy with strong high-tech and energy sectors.
Job growth is well above the U.S.
average on a percent change year-over-year basis.
We continue to leverage our standing in Texas as the largest U.S.
commercial bank headquartered in the state.
Average loans in Texas were up 7% year-over-year.
California residential real estate markets are quickly improving and home prices are increasing in all major metropolitan areas.
Many homeowners are experiencing increased wealth providing broad-based support to the state's economy.
Job growth in California is above the U.S.
average on a percent change year-over-year basis.
Average loans in California were up 10% year-over-year and average deposits were up 4%.
Increased auto production and sales have strengthened the Michigan economy.
June auto sales reached the 15.9 million unit rate the highest level in over 5 years.
Residential real estate markets in Michigan are stabilizing statewide and home prices are increasing.
And according to the National Association of Manufacturers Michigan is the top state for manufacturing job creation from December 2009 to March 2013.
Texas ranked second.
Average loans in Michigan were relatively stable year-over-year while deposits grew 5%.
In closing we remain focused on growing revenue in the slowly expanding economy.
Our relationship strategy is working well in this low rate environment as evidenced by growth of loans deposits and fee income.
Also contributing to our strong shareholder payout were our tight expense management and solid credit performance.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning.
Turning to Slide 6.
As Ralph mentioned total average loan growth was $276 million or 1% quarter-over-quarter reflecting a continued increase in commercial loans and a slowing of the decline in Commercial Real Estate loans.
As you can see positive trends continued with period-end loans greater than the average in the second quarter.
Period-end loans increased $392 million from the end of the first quarter to $45.5 billion.
By line of business Middle Market loans across all 3 major geographies were a key contributor to our loan growth in the second quarter.
In fact average loans grew $250 million in our National Dealer business and $213 million in our general Middle Market business.
And looking at trends loans in our general Middle Market business have increased 5 of the past 6 quarters with the largest increases in the last 2 quarters.
Somewhat offsetting that growth we did have a $270 million decline in Corporate Banking which is one of the most competitive segments and reflects our desire to maintain our pricing discipline.
Loan yields shown in the yellow diamonds declined 7 basis points in the quarter reflecting the expected decline in purchased loan accretion as well as the continued mix shift of our portfolio.
Total loan commitments increased almost $1 billion as of June 30 with commitments increasing in all major markets and nearly all business lines.
Also line utilization increased to 48.2% from 47.7% at the end of the first quarter.
Finally our loan pipeline increased to the highest levels since the first quarter of 2012.
In fact it is more than 10% higher than last quarter with increases noted in most business lines.
Continuing with loans on Slide 7.
By type as opposed to line of business average commercial loans were up $337 million and were the main driver of our loan growth.
On the top portion of the bar Mortgage Banker Finance which provides mortgage warehouse lines saw average loans increase almost $100 million this past quarter.
As we have noted before Mortgage Banker outstandings can be variable and we expect that they will moderate as mortgage refinance volumes slow in line with the Mortgage Bankers Association forecast.
The pace of decline in Commercial Real Estate loans continued to slow.
In fact as depicted in the chart on the right the combined commercial mortgage and real estate construction average loans decreased $67 million down from a decrease of $106 million in the first quarter and $241 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Breaking the bar into pieces developer Commercial Real Estate has stabilized at $3 billion and is showing signs that it is starting to grow.
In fact commitments to developers have increased for the past 6 quarters and construction loans grew for the third consecutive quarter up $102 million in the second quarter with demand improving.
Offsetting that growth projects are moving quickly to the permanent long-term financing market upon completion before the construction loan can be converted to a mini perm mortgage on our books.
On the other hand owner-occupied real estate which makes up 72% of our Commercial Real Estate exposure declined $131 million in the quarter.
These real estate loans for the factories warehouses and offices of our commercial customers continued to be impacted by amortization and refinancings to the long-term market.
Our customers are growing and performing well but remain cautious about expanding their facilities in the current economic environment.
As shown on Slide 8 our total average deposits increased $756 million or 1% to $51.4 billion.
Noninterest-bearing deposits grew $570 million while interest-bearing deposits increased $186 million.
Deposit pricing declined 2 basis points to 19 basis points depicted in the yellow diamonds on the slide as higher rate CDs matured and we have lowered rates on select products.
Average deposits in our Financial Services division which provide services to title and escrow companies increased $228 million after contracting about $700 million in the first quarter.
And deposits in our Corporate Banking business increased almost $400 million due to tax-related seasonality.
The same seasonality also impacted period-end deposits which decreased $862 million.
Slide 9 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consist of highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
The MBS portfolio averaged $9.4 billion in the second quarter down $235 million from the first quarter as we purposely slowed the reinvestment of prepayments in April and May due to the unattractive low yields that were available.
At period-end the balance of the MBS portfolio was $9.3 billion.
The decline was mainly due to the slowing of reinvestments as well as a decline in the fair value of the portfolio as a result of rising rates.
The net unrealized gain on the portfolio was $10 million a decrease of $219 million pretax or $139 million after-tax and was recorded through accumulated other comprehensive income or AOCI.
With the rise in long rates and current rate expectations we believe the pace of prepays will slow with $500 million to $600 million in prepays expected in the third quarter.
Consequently at 4.1 years the estimated duration on the portfolio increased from 3.4 years at the end of the first quarter.
However the expected duration under a 200 basis point rate shock remained relatively constant at about 5 years as a result of the composition of our portfolio and the fact that prepaid fees should stabilize.
We will continue to manage our portfolio dynamically taking into account many factors including not only our loan and deposit expectations and the overall yields available but also the duration and mark-to-market impact on our portfolio in a rising rate environment.
Turning to Slide 10.
Our net interest income was relatively stable declining $2 million in the second quarter.
We've summarized in the table on the right the major moving pieces.
One additional day in the quarter added $4 million to net interest income.
Loan growth contributed $2 million and helped offset the effects of the low-rate environment.
Lower funding costs including debt maturities in the second quarter as well as lower deposit costs added $1 million and provided a 1 basis point increase to the margin.
Offsetting these positive contributions was a $4 million decline in accretion of the purchase discount on the acquired loan portfolio which had a 3 basis point impact on the margin.
We have about $38 million of total accretion remaining to be realized on the acquired portfolio.
Accretion should continue to trend downward each quarter and we expect to recognize about $25 million to $30 million in 2013.
While we remain focused on holding loan spreads for new and renewed credit facilities there are still mix shift dynamics impacting the portfolio.
These include higher-yielding commercial mortgage loan shrinking while lower-yielding C&amp;I loans are growing and older fixed-rate loans are maturing.
In addition 30-day LIBOR declined over 0.5 basis point in the quarter.
As a reminder approximately 85% of our loans are floating rate of which 75% are LIBOR-based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
All of these factors combined had a $4 million or 2 basis point impact on the net interest margin.
Dynamics in the securities portfolio including prepayments that were reinvested at lower yields as well as a lower average balance had a $1 million or less than 1 basis point negative impact.
And finally average excess liquidity increased almost $300 million decreasing the net interest margin by 1 basis point.
We believe our asset-sensitive balance sheet remains well-positioned for rising rates.
Based on our historical experience and asset liability model we believe a 200 basis point increase in rates over a 1-year period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in more than a 10% increase in net interest income of approximately $185 million.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 11.
Credit quality continues to be strong in the second quarter.
Net charge-offs decreased to $17 million or 15 basis points of average loans.
The charts on the right show our watch list loans declined $224 million and our nonperforming loans declined $44 million.
With the decline in nonperforming loans the allowance to NPLs increased to 130%.
And the $613 million allowance covers our trailing 12 month net charge-off over 5x as you can see on the lower left chart.
As a result of the continued positive trends in our credit metrics our provision for credit losses declined $3 million from the first quarter to $13 million.
Finally we received the annual Shared National Credit or SNC exam results at the end of June.
They are reflected in our second quarter results and were not significant.
Slide 12 outlines the $8 million increase in noninterest income.
Second quarter customer-driven fees increased $4 million due to broad-based increases across most customer-driven fee income categories including a $3 million increase in customer derivative income.
This was partially offset by a $2 million decrease in service charges on deposit accounts from the seasonally high first quarter level.
Noncustomer related categories increased $4 million to $20 million primarily due to a $6 million annual incentive received from our third-party credit card provider.
This was partially offset by a securities loss of $2 million.
Turning to Slide 13.
We continued to maintain tight expense control which resulted in stable expenses in the second quarter.
Salaries expense decreased $6 million reflecting a slightly smaller workforce seasonally higher stock compensation in the first quarter and decreases in incentive compensation.
This was partially offset by the impact of merit increases and 1 additional day in the quarter.
Offsetting the decline in salary expense in the second quarter we had a $4 million write-down on other foreclosed assets and a $2 million increase in outside processing fees primarily due to increased activity tied to revenue growth and the outsourcing of certain functions.
Going forward there are 3 extra days in the second half of the year which will impact our salary expense.
In addition we expect to incur additional salary software and consulting expenses related to regulatory compliance predominantly stress testing particularly as we migrate to becoming a full CCAR bank this year.
In addition occupancy expenses are typically seasonally higher in the second half of the year.
Moving to Slide 14 and shareholder payout.
In the second quarter we repurchased 1.9 million shares under our share repurchase program.
Combined with the dividends paid we returned 72% of net income to our shareholders in the second quarter.
We believe our shareholder payout is a reflection of our strong capital position.
Shares repurchased were mostly offset by the impact of share dilution from warrant and employee options resulting from the increase in our stock price during the quarter.
We are pleased that the Basel III capital rules have been finalized.
We believe we are already well above the required minimum to be considered well-capitalized with an estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common capital ratio of 10.1% at June 30 on a fully phased-in basis assuming we elect to exclude the impact of AOCI.
Finally turning to Slide 15 and our outlook.
Our expectations for full year 2013 compared to full year 2012 remain unchanged from what we outlined on our call in April with the exception of provision.
We are now expecting the provision and net charge-off to decline from last year's levels with both these levels in the second half of the year similar to the first half.
Based on current trends we believe we should see continued improvement in credit quality partially offset by loan growth.
In this slow-growing economy we will continue to focus on the things we can control allocating resources to our faster growing markets and industry segments driving cross-sell opportunities and carefully managing expenses.
In closing we are pleased with our loan deposit and fee income growth tight expense management solid credit performance and strong shareholder payout.
We remain keenly focused on delivering a growing bottom line.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if you can give us some color on loan pricing.
What you're seeing in your markets if you're seeing any ability there to price better given the steepness in the curve at all? Okay.
Lars? Yes.
John so as you know we typically price with the shorter end of the yield curve as Karen mentioned earlier.
So as you're seeing a steepening in the yield curve that hasn't had as much kind of impact on us.
Obviously the hiccup in the leveraged loan market did move I think some activity like to the shorter end of the yield curve which helps senior bank debt.
But overall I don't think the interest rate shifts have really had any significant impact on us.
And as you know LIBOR really hasn't significantly changed.
So we're staying very focused on our existing strategy.
We haven't changed our pricing strategy at all John.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you seeing any change in the competitiveness of some of your competing banks on that front at all or any room to improve pricing just given any changes in the competitive landscape? Well I would say that we have continued to see a very aggressive marketplace in terms of pricing.
And if I look back a couple of quarters ago to today I would say that it has gotten relatively more aggressive.
We do see durations getting stretched on a number of facilities and that's pretty active across a number of our businesses.
So we're continuing to just focus on our discipline our product and what we do and feel very comfortable.
We're getting the kinds of returns that are attractive to our shareholders and we're going to stick to our guns with that John.
And -- but I don't see it as an opportunity for us to significantly increase spreads or yields but I do think that we're very well-positioned with the businesses we have the expertise we have the markets that we have to continue to de-lever.
And as you know our loan spreads have largely held here over the last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Karen you're probably going to shoot me down on this.
But on the margin I wanted to see if we can get some just additional color on your thoughts there on the margin.
Could we see a bottoming in the margin over the next couple of quarters here? And can you talk about the magnitude of compression that we might see? I laughed John because you're right.
In terms of the margin as you know it's extremely difficult to predict and the key variable there is excess liquidity which can bounce the margin up and down and just very difficult for us to predict.
I would say on net interest income which does drive the margin that you will continue to see a decline in the accretion benefit.
We've mentioned that we expect to see $25 million to $30 million this year.
We've seen $18 million so far and that means we will continue to see a decline in the next 2 quarters and that will impact the margin.
We do expect loan growth to offset the decline that we've seen on our portfolio loan yield.
We do expect that to continue but eventually wane and it's just difficult to predict eventually when that will turn around.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start regarding the slowdown of the reinvestment of securities in 2Q where are you able to reinvest today and have you started reinvesting that cash? Yes Steve.
We have started to reinvest.
When rates did rise last month we did move back in the market to purchase securities.
Today we're seeing yields in the 2.20 to 2.50 range.
Research Division</strong> And what duration would that be Karen? Similar duration to what we've got on the portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm curious what impact has the stock market -- [indiscernible] and as the yield curve's steepening what impact has that had on confidence if any of your business customers? Have you seen anything? Lars you want to comment on that? Sure yes.
Steven frankly we haven't really seen a significant change in terms of I would say the wealth effect in terms of business owners.
Where I think we've seen more activity there would probably be in our Wealth business.
You may have noticed that our Wealth loan portfolio had nice growth up almost $80 million.
Our fiduciary fees asset management fees continued to grow.
Part of that frankly we have a -- we continued to enhance our collaboration cross-sell across our platform and continue to work with those customers.
Because if you think about it many of our Middle Market companies that are private privately-owned they're feeling better.
There are companies that are de-leveraging.
They're creating liquidity and they're thinking about exit plans.
And that's where we bring expertise to the table.
So I think that that's one of the areas where we've been able to really benefit and I think that that showed up in our numbers.
But to answer your question specifically for business customers that we would see say in Middle Market banking no I haven't seen that.
I think you're still seeing a lot of uncertainty out there just to add to what Lars was saying.
And people were waiting and watching to see what's going to happen and they're doing quite well on their current operations but they just don't want to invest until they know what the outlook's going to be including the many uncertainties that are there on particular items that will affect their earnings.
Yes.
I'd say cautious optimism is probably a pretty good description of the way they're feeling but still dampening the investment at this point.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Karen just a final one for you.
Can you help us think about the dollars of incremental expense related to the stress test now that you'll be a CCAR bank? Yes we will have dollars related to consulting expenses additional headcount and some software expenses.
I'm not giving out the exact dollar but I will say that related to increased regulatory expenses we will be spending about $15 million annually a year just related to regulatory expenses.
Some of that is already in our run rate but not all of it.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question just in terms of loan growth obviously we see your guidance that it's going to be slower that's fine.
My question though is how should we think about the interplay between Mortgage Banker which has actually held up pretty well this quarter and I guess my suspicion is just given the rising rates given the slowdown refis that actually could fall pretty materially in the back-half of the year versus growth in the rest of the portfolio? Lars? Yes.
Absolutely Ken.
Yes obviously with a rising interest rate environment on mortgage rates I think the 30 years is up now 4.5%.
So that's clearly going to have we believe an impact to Mortgage Banking Association as they're projecting a 39% decline in mortgage apps in the second half of the year and clearly we think that could help would moderate some of our outstandings.
I would underscore a couple of things though Ken that I think are important.
Our business continues to become more granular.
We continue to add more mortgage companies which I think with those expanded facilities and commitments that we're seeing that gives us a little bit more kind of insulation on the downside also.
If you look at the volumes that we're doing today if you go back a couple of quarters our purchase volumes were 30%.
Last quarter and I'm talking about the first quarter they were 50%.
In the second quarter they were 60%.
That general migration towards a purchase volume concentration I think helps us positions us well.
We have very strong relationships with some large national builders that are giving us some good volume.
And in addition to it we're in some good growth markets like Texas where the housing market continues to expand and we expect to gain more of the purchase volumes.
So yes could we see some moderation? I think it's a good observation but I think we're going to manage the business to position ourselves for the long haul.
We have great customers some of the best cross-sell we have in the bank and certainly in the Business Bank in that particular business.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then when we think about the timing of the potential decline I mean is there enough carryover business from second quarter that locked in at the lower rates or should we actually see a pretty -- the steep declines starting fairly soon meaning third quarter and then maybe stable in fourth? Yes.
I'd say that that would be very difficult to tell.
There's a number of dynamics that actually impact the outstandings on these facilities including the investor and the investor market.
So I really couldn't give you a number there that would be helpful.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
But even with that decline in mind do you guys still believe that slow but positive total loan growth is achievable in the third and fourth quarter correct? We have not changed our loan growth outlook that is correct.
Next question comes from the line of Erika Penala with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on some of John's questions.
I think -- or actually my first follow-up question is on the liquidity side Karen I appreciate that you've started to reinvest into this higher loan rate environment.
How should we think about the proper level of liquidity for the bank going forward? We are positioned well with liquidity for the rising loan growth environment.
We like that position because we do want to ultimately reinvest in loans.
From an overall liquidity perspective we are feeling very comfortable.
We currently have a little bit less than $3 billion on deposit with the Fed and that moves up and down depending on our overall balance sheet position.
I don't know if you need more color Erika.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm just wondering if I look at average balances your cash with the Fed is about 7% of earning assets.
If loan growth is normalizing and there are more reinvestment opportunities can that level go down and hopefully margin? It certainly could go down.
One of the things that we need to be mindful of though is the potential new rules coming out -- or new rules coming out on liquidity.
Those have been proposed by the Basel committee but have not yet been written in the United States so we will be paying close attention to those and making sure that we are ultimately compliant with them.
I think the thing I would add to that as well is things pick up and people get more positive you will see that excess liquidity go down because people will begin to use it again to invest for the future not only the consumer but also our business customers.
Research Division</strong> I see.
And the -- just switching topics a little bit.
It seems like given your reinvestment rate on the securities book we should expect that we've perhaps hit a bottom on your bond yield but could you remind us exactly where you're originating new loans in both Corporate Banking and Middle Market in terms of your spread to LIBOR? We don't give the origination yields out.
But you should know that we are very focused on holding or increasing spreads everywhere that we can on new and renewed loans.
It is something that we track every month and we have been successful.
Yes.
And Erika I would just reinforce that and I know you know this but we take very much of a relationship approach.
We're not just looking at the individual credit.
We're looking at the entire relationship and what they're really bringing to Comerica and the ability for that customer relationship to generate shareholder value.
So that's -- obviously credit is a key component of it but we really take a relationship-type approach when valuing our customers.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And just 1 more question before I step out of the queue.
Karen have you given us an update on under the Basel III proposed rules what your liquidity coverage ratio would be? We have not given that because the rules are really just proposed at the Basel level and still have a long way to go.
They have yet to be written in the United States.
We and many other banks if the rules are passed as drafted under Basel would need to add liquidity.
And it is something that we are very focused on but we're waiting for rules to come in the United States.
The next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Rob Placet on Matt's team.
First question as it relates to the decline in period-end DDA balances this quarter you pointed to some seasonality.
I guess what specifically caused the seasonal drop this quarter? Lars? They were mainly tax-related seasonality due to company building up liquidity in order to pay certain tax bills and that's why you saw a decline at period end too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at expenses as it relates to your comments for personnel and occupancy expenses in the second half of the year I was wondering if you could talk to the magnitude of the increase in those categories.
And then is it safe to say that the level of expenses should drift higher versus the $416 million level this quarter? Yes we do expect expenses to be slightly higher and that's due to 3 additional days in the second half than we've had in the first half as well as increased headcount mostly related to stress tests and the fact that our occupancy expenses are seasonally higher in the second half than they are in the first half.
The next question comes from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the $80 million premium amortization balance.
What was the quarterly run rate that impacted net interest income in the second quarter? Can you repeat your question please? Research Division</strong> Yes.
On the premium amortization I was wondering what the second quarter impact to that was just thinking about that on a go-forward basis as durations could potentially extend.
Yes so about $9 million.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And does the duration of the premium amortization sort of match the available-for-sale securities portfolio? When we look at premium amortization every quarter it is something that as interest rates have increased and the duration on our portfolio extends we expect could increase a little bit if that answers your question.
Research Division</strong> No it does.
And just one follow-up.
What was the period-ending mortgage banker balance? And if you don't have that maybe you can help us think about what was the quarterly change in the mortgage banker balance on a period-end basis not an average basis? Okay.
Yes so mortgage banking finance on a period-end basis was up $374 million.
That was against an average of $78 million.
One of the things that I would remind you is that oftentimes the ending period balances do spike.
Typically mortgage companies build up their inventory throughout the month and at the end of the quarter would then sell off to investors.
So the change was $374 million.
And the ending balance for mortgage banker finance was $2.4 billion.
The next question comes from the line of Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A question on the decline in Corporate Banking loan balances in the second quarter.
You indicated it was largely competitively driven.
I was wondering if you could give us some more color on that.
And is it a trend that you expect to continue in that bucket? Lars? Okay.
Well as I've shared on previous conference calls as we look at the competitive landscape from a pricing structure including duration of credit as you go to the upper segments clearly Corporate Banking that's where we've seen the most competition frankly.
And as we look back over the past quarter it's been a tough market.
It's been very very aggressive.
There's clearly excess liquidity.
If you look at some of the syndicated credit market there is a significant oversubscription in those facilities.
And frankly we're a company that is just not going to overreach.
We are not going to trade off credit quality nor relationship pricing for volume.
And so at times you've got to make a difficult short-term decision on some credits.
But I think for the long term we're very well positioned.
We've got some great customers in both U.S.
banking and international.
And I think from a long-term perspective it's a great growth business for us.
But in the short run it's challenging.
We are not going to overreach.
This is not the time to do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> What do you think will offset that largely Lars.
Is it Middle Market and Dealer? Yes.
We're very fortunate that we have a diversified geography between Michigan Texas California with unique businesses even embedded in those markets whether it's Automotive Energy Environmental Services Technology and Life Sciences.
And if you think about some of those businesses from a long-term perspective they look very attractive.
I think Energy Technology and Life Sciences you saw growth in Environmental Services this quarter.
Our Small Business had its fourth consecutive quarter of growth.
Wealth Management grew.
And we continue to have a very stable growth in just kind of our general Middle Market.
What I'd say is non-industry specific.
And you put on top of all of that what we're beginning to see is this turn in kind of our Commercial Real Estate line of business.
The story looks pretty attractive for the long haul I think for us.
The next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple more questions on loans.
Can you just remind us of the typical seasonal pattern of Dealer Floor Plan and just how underlying trends are going in that business? Lars? Sure.
Well typically what you would see if you look at the calendar year -- over the years you would see that inventories would build as you headed earlier in the year in the spring and then you would see a very active sales season as you headed through the summer.
That is both at -- frankly the consumers are very active in buying and also you have an interest in our dealers and clearing the past year's model and making room for the new year model.
So that's the typical seasonality that you would see in the business.
But we didn't see that last year.
So you've got to kind of keep that in mind.
Now the second part of your question was about utilization rates.
Utilization rates today are at near-record levels for us and I think for the industry which is a reflection of the strength of the auto industry.
You saw June's numbers come out and annualized sales were 15.9 million units which I think is very positive.
One of the things that I keep a very close eye on is as those inventories build is how rapidly they're turning.
And what we're seeing is inventories turn in that high 50 to low 60 to 80 kind of range which over a long period of time is a very healthy number.
So I like our business I like the way that we're positioned and our inventory is turning and our business -- our dealers are doing very very well.
One note I would point out is that our margins on new models and used are getting compressed.
It's a very competitive marketplace out there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And my second question is regarding -- on the Commercial Real Estate business I'm just wondering how much more runoff you foresee.
I know you point out in the deck that the rate of decline continues to slow but we're still down another $300 million when I look at that total commercial loan number at $9 billion.
So at what point do we get to stabilization there? Yes.
So I think it's important to break apart the total commercial loan portfolio because you both have owner-occupied real estate which frankly if you think about a big part of our portfolio Middle Market Banking these are companies that are delevering.
Their credit facilities are owner-occupied or amortizing.
Maybe they're even paying them off.
And the financing to those same companies is showing up in the expansion of other financing in Middle Market Banking like revolving credit facilities import export facilities.
So that could continue to decline.
We just really don't know.
I think as owner-occupied as Middle Market companies begin to reinvest in the facilities and expand then we'll see that grow.
The other half of that Commercial Real Estate portfolio is really the professional developer and this is what we oftentimes talk about.
It's very focused on oftentimes multi-family.
It's urban market oriented.
It's the construction portfolio that Karen referenced earlier as well as our national developer business that does business with some of the best and biggest homebuilders in the country as well as REITs.
And that part of our business we're actually seeing growth.
So I think that that's very positive for us.
And I would expect our Commercial Real Estate professional developer business to continue to grow as we get down on the road.
We have very good pipelines in that business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And last quick one just on Ralph your earlier comment about companies hopefully using their deposit at some point to invest.
Karen mentioned that a lot of this quarter's deposit outflows were more seasonal.
But I'm just wondering underneath the surface are you seeing any suggestion that companies are in fact either drawing down deposits to invest or contemplating drawing down deposits to invest versus taking up the incremental loan? I think we've seen it in some businesses.
I wouldn't call it a trend but it has at least shown a glimmer of hope that investment is starting.
Whether it's trend or not we just don't know.
I think that's right.
Where you primarily have seen a reduction in deposit balances has been in general Middle Market Banking.
And frankly that's when -- where we're seeing good stable loan growth.
So I think a number of those companies are putting now liquidity to work.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I was just hoping to follow up on capital and the provision.
From a capital perspective I was wondering now that we're getting closer to having full clarity on ratios what do you think about capital and sort of where things might normalize over the next few years? And then secondly I just wanted to ask about the provision and thinking about the guidance for a lower provision for the year and the back half of the year assuming loan growth is moderate or slow as you indicated if the provision level might be similar than it was relative to 2Q anyway.
Karen you want to talk about capital? Sure.
On capital we are feeling good that now that the final rules are out that our capital clearly complies with the rules if they were fully phased in and they don't fully phase in until 2019.
So we remain very well capitalized.
In terms of where things should normalize we expect to continue to be well capitalized.
And as our capital does grow we expect to hopefully continue to pay back to shareholders.
Does that answer...
John do you want to...
Talk about provision? Sure I'd be glad to.
I think it's helpful to look at the major proponents of the provision to get a more full understanding of this.
So at 15 basis points net charge-offs are well within the normal ranges and we expect them to be similar for the rest of the year.
We've made great progress in reducing NPLs but they should still trend a little lower.
They're 471 at the end of the second quarter versus 515 at the end of the first.
We do expect loan growth to partially offset some of this improvement which leads us to the bottom line that we expect net charge-offs and provision to look very similar in the second half of the year to our actual results in the first half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe a better way to ask it is just that the relative level assuming you're growing and where the reserve is today even the credit is improving would that provision not increase a little bit in the back half of the year relative to the second quarter? Very difficult to predict how much loan growth we're going to see so we're pretty comfortable with the guidance that we've instituted today.
Your next question comes from the line of Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a bigger picture loan growth question and then one follow-up.
Just a question on the period-end loans being a bit higher even the Mortgage Banker Finance and then the large increase in the pipeline that you discussed.
Is there anything specific going on there? And what's the driver? Lars? Yes.
Jon I don't think there's anything that is specific on pretty much what you pointed out.
It's what you would typically see.
Mortgage Banking Finance and National Dealer were the 2 big drivers for the increase at the end of the quarter.
Other than that I would say it was business as usual.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the pipeline? Yes.
The pipeline was up 10%.
It was very broad based in terms of the growth.
I think that that was very positive.
And in fact there was kind of a reverse correlation in the number of businesses that maybe did not grow for the quarter.
You saw some pretty good pickups in the pipeline.
So I think that that's a real positive.
International finance was up Technology and Life Sciences National Dealer Services Entertainment Energy our Middle Market businesses in Texas and Michigan as well as U.S.
banking.
So it was very broad based and we're encouraged with that.
If you put that back against the fact that we increased our commitments for the whole portfolio by almost $1 billion in linked quarter I think that that paints a pretty positive picture though against what's going to be a competitive environment.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- this may be subtle but probably monumental from my point of view in that Michigan's no longer your largest loan market for the first time ever I believe.
How is the Michigan pipeline? You seemed pretty optimistic in terms of your prepared comments but the balances have been a little bit flat.
I'm curious how the pipeline is and how you view the loan growth potential of that market.
Michigan is a critical market for us long term.
We have very high market shares great long-term kind of relationships.
And as you noted I mean in terms of total loan growth we did not grow in Michigan though for the quarter but in commercial loan growth we did grow for the quarter.
The automotive industry is certainly positively impacting that so I feel great about the Michigan market.
We've got some great bankers great relationships.
But it's clearly closely tied to the automotive industry.
So it is -- continues to be a very large Middle Market business though for Comerica and it's going to continue to be an important point of growth for us I think in the long haul.
It's just not likely to have the same growth rates that you would find in Texas.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Just a real quick question on the loan portfolio mix shift dynamics.
Just kind of curious given some of the turning that you're starting to see in the Commercial Real Estate segments and do you necessarily need higher rates for that kind of headwind to turn into a tailwind? Or I'm just kind of curious how you're thinking about those portfolio dynamics going forward.
Yes.
There are several things that are going on in the portfolio dynamics that we've talked about before.
We've got -- although we only have 15% of our portfolio in fixed-rate loans those do continue to mature.
And we do have the mix shift that you talked about with Commercial Real Estate continuing to come down and C&amp;I continuing to come up.
That will eventually turn.
As it turns it will have a positive impact on both our loan growth and on our net interest income.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And so just given some of the trends that you're seeing Lars do you feel that's something that might be able to kind of happen in this year or is it something maybe farther out? Well frankly in terms of the loan growth in our Commercial Real Estate line of business I think a longer -- a higher longer-term rate is going to benefit us.
You're going to see less activity of our developers moving their balances to the long-term financing market and I think that's a real plus for us.
It's interesting cap rates have not moved at all.
They continue to be very low so it continues to be a very active market and we're well positioned in the right markets.
Research Division</strong> Got you got you.
And then lastly for me just on that jump in the pipeline definitely good to see that.
And would you characterize the pipeline still about 2/3 coming from new customers still? Yes it's actually declined just a little bit on new customers just slightly.
But I'd say largely it's still slanted towards new customer relationships.
But as I cautioned in the past just looking at the percentage on pipelines of new versus existing is a little tricky because when you look at the pull-through of the pipeline it tends to be at much higher multiples with existing customers versus new.
And I'm talking multiples of 5x more likely to close business with an existing customer than with a new.
But not a material shift just slight.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick follow-ups.
First Karen you mentioned that premium amortization was $9 million in the quarter.
Can you give us the quarter-over-quarter comparison? What was it the quarter prior? We were about the same quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And in terms of your sensitivity to higher rates I think you talked about roughly $185 million from 200-basis-point uptick.
Can you just remind us first what are some of the underlying assumptions for that? And I know you have a slide that you put out in the quarter where you showed it could vary from 145 to 220 depending on what happens with some of the underlying assumptions.
And given that we saw a 4% deposit outflows this quarter I understand some of that is seasonal how sensitive are we to further outflows of non-interest-bearing deposits? Yes okay.
Our rate sensitivity as you know is dynamic and does change.
It has moved up over the last few quarters because we have greater non-interest-bearing deposits and greater amounts of floating rate loans.
And I did share that chart sort of intra-quarter that showed the dynamics and the movement.
On the sensitivities yes our interest rate sensitivity is based on the assumptions we put into it.
Some of the key assumptions in that number are that we do expect deposits to decline.
We do expect to have a mix shift in our deposits from non-interest-bearing to interest-bearing as customers search for yield.
So we do expect continued loan growth.
We expect our securities portfolio to remain relatively stable but we do expect our excess liquidity to decline but still remain in an excess liquidity position.
When we showed the rate sensitivity intra-quarter we did show that that interest rate sensitivity could range depending on different deposit outflows and different loan growth.
And those sensitivities yielded somewhere between $150 million increase to over $200 million increase depending on the various assumptions that we put in.
Research Division</strong> And can you just give us a sense of what you're assuming for competition in those underlying assumptions? I mean I would assume that if we are to see a pickup we could see further easing of standards and competition potentially compress spreads but I would just be interested to hear your underlying assumption.
Yes we do assume that rates remain fairly steady from where they are today.
There would be a little bit of competition built into that and so a little bit of pressure but not a lot.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just get one quick follow-up.
How much did loan utilization change x the warehouse? X the warehouse...
Okay.
Yes.
If you actually take out the warehouse we were relatively stable.
The next question comes from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a sense on the employee count and kind of where we see that bottoming where you're still trimming and what areas are you hiring and plan to hire going forward? Yes.
Our employee count is now just a little over -- a little under 9 000 employees versus slightly over last quarter.
So there was a small change in employee count.
We are hiring as we mentioned to help us work on the stress testing capital plan requirement.
At the same time as we see normal attrition and we try to be focused on being as efficient as possible everywhere that we can.
And we're very focused on our growing markets and making sure that in our appropriate products we have the necessary expertise and people in place to capitalize on it.
Ralph an example of that would be we are continuing to invest in our Technology and Life Sciences office.
We opened a new office in Houston.
We have a new one opening in New York.
We're continuing to invest in our general Middle Market businesses and core markets.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Just coming back to this capital question and what's the right level to run out long term.
When I think about the Basel III progression we kind of all came to grips a couple of years ago with the minimums and then this kind of buffer on the buffer concept emerged where banks would have to carry an extra 50 bps or so for mostly AOCI risk.
With the AOCI opt out I really should not kind of given the spot level you're going to run down to.
But with the AOCI opt out do you kind of get to throw away that buffer on the buffer concept or are there enough other things like the stress test uncertainty every year that you feel like even without AOCI to worry about it it makes sense to carry an extra buffer? I think you will have an extra buffer.
The question is how much for us longer term as an individual bank.
And we need some time to look at that as it phases in.
And I think we will eventually get back to where we were before the downturn where we looked at and actually shared what our -- where we wanted to be from a capital standpoint so that investors understood what we were thinking about for payouts longer term.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And really just maybe just a quick follow-up on capital.
I think we've asked you every question we possibly can on the past hour.
So maybe I guess Karen and Ralph thinking about the buyback and obviously buffers are -- now you guys have a significant amount of excess capital still at least in my opinion even when you get to Basel III.
I guess maybe talk about the idea and your thought process with the buyback.
And obviously it was somewhat of a no-brainer when the stock is below tangible book but given the run in the shares this year I guess how are you thinking about the incremental capital you're deploying the return you're getting on that growth organically versus the buyback and then even thinking about the potential for acquisitions so maybe you can kind of talk about now how you're thinking about the buyback going forward.
Karen you want to start? Sure happy to.
So we are disciplined around our buyback.
We do look at it as a use of capital.
And like any other competing use of capital it should have an internal rate of return above our cost of capital.
We do have an analysis and a model that looks at that and we are disciplined about it.
We're not going to tell you what the output of that model is but we will say at the current stock price we feel very comfortable continuing to buy back our stock.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess Ralph I guess what do you think about potentials for acquisitions versus organic? Well first of all I would say as I've said in the past I'm very comfortable with where our footprint is today both in California and Texas and Michigan.
And therefore internal growth is a very good strategy for us.
That's not to say that there wouldn't be possibilities for an acquisition if it were in the right places in one of those markets from that standpoint.
And then you'd have to look at it from all of the other focuses as well price and the culture of the given potential acquisition and whether it fits in that market.
The next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry to pile on but 2 quickies here.
You mentioned the trends in dealer finance all looked very positive.
You've seen 19 -- nearly 20% year-over-year growth in that portfolio.
I guess I'm just curious what your outlook is over the next year for demand in that business.
Do you -- are you expecting continued high teens growth in that business or is there the potential that that could slow down? Yes.
So just from an accuracy perspective there's actually about a 24% year-over-year growth in the portfolio.
But it's a business that if we look at it historically we're running at numbers that were like 2008 both from outstandings perspective utilization.
We feel very comfortable with that as a company where it is today.
I'm expecting as we talked about earlier that some of the seasonality will moderate some of those balances as we head into next year.
But clearly 2014's annual sales rate on auto sales is going to have an impact on the outstandings likely for our dealers and will impact us on the longer term in terms of our growth profile of the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Lars you mentioned earlier you expected prepayment fees to stabilize.
And I guess I'm just curious over the last couple of years as you've seen increased competition for Middle Market loans have you been -- have your competitors been forcing you to move away from prepayment fees on some of your commitments or have you held pretty firm on that? It's -- when I refer to structure that's one of those things that go into that basket.
That's a good insight.
We obviously try to build in a prepayment penalty into every transaction and every relationship we can because there is a cost of liquidity associated with it.
But it's part of the larger pricing of the overall relationship that we have.
But I would say from a general industry perspective that that is clearly kind of an area that has given along with durations and advanced rates and a number of other areas.
But for us we've really stayed the course.
We've been very disciplined.
And frankly we could have had a lot more growth in some of our businesses if we were willing to kind of reach outside of our traditional risk management relationship pricing box but that's what got us here.
We think it positions us well for the long haul.
And frankly our customers appreciate what we deliver so I think we're well positioned.
The next question comes from the line Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick a couple of questions on the guidance.
The net interest income expectation where that's trended lower.
If you strip out the purchase accounting accretion piece of that is there a sort of core net interest income? Has it reached a level where the growth offsets expected compression? Or would that continue to trend lower as well? Karen? Yes.
That's difficult to say.
But as you've seen in the last couple of quarters the vast majority of our decline on net interest income has been due to accretion.
And so the other impacts on the portfolio have been slowing and at some point should turn.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question maybe if you could expand a little bit on the loan growth expectation.
I mean the commentary overall seems to be that market conditions are improving and that line utilization is up.
You've got a record pipeline and yet you all are saying you expect growth at a slower pace going forward.
And I just was hoping maybe you could reconcile those 2 points of view.
Yes.
Keep in mind that our outlook is a full year to full year outlook.
So when we look at 2011 and 2012 we did have robust loan growth.
And in 2012 to 2013 we're expecting continued loan growth but at a slower pace than the prior year.
So that would be our overall outlook.
And yes we do have some positive signs that we talked about on loan growth going forward through the back half of the year but remember that that's against the backdrop of a slow economy and a very competitive environment under which we expect to maintain our pricing structure discipline.
Yes.
And Karen and one last thing I'd add on to that.
You mentioned line utilization being -- remember line utilization when you adjust really for the end of period dealer Mortgage Banker Finance it was really flat.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just one last thing on my list.
In the release it was mentioned that the provision connected to the Mortgage Banker Finance book increased in the second quarter.
I was wondering did the rapid move up in rates pose additional credit risk to those borrowers? And have you taken a closer look at that customer base with a potential of weeding through some of those weaker borrowers that could add to the potential decline in that book in the back half of this year? John? Terry no it really wouldn't add to the additional risk in that business.
Our Mortgage Banker Finance business is completely a warehouse business.
So to the extent that their loan balances are up in the reserve methodology they get a higher standard loss factor.
But there's no real impact other than that.
Your final question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Guys I'll let you off the hook.
I think all my questions have been answered at this point.
And that does close our Q&amp;A presentation.
I'd now like to turn this call back to Mr.
Ralph Babb for closing remarks.
I would just like to thank everybody for being on the call this morning and their interest in Comerica.
We appreciate it very much and hope everyone has a good day.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's presentation.
We thank you for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Susan and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Ms.
Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations you may begin your conference.
Thank you Susan.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our third quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements and in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures.
And in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported third quarter 2013 net income of $147 million or $0.78 per share compared to $143 million or $0.76 per share in the second quarter and $117 million or $0.61 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
Quarterly earnings per share grew 28% over last year primarily due to fee income growth expense control and continued solid credit quality.
Part of the expense improvement was due to a $25 million reduction in restructuring expense related to the successful integration of Sterling Bancshares.
Turning to Slide 4 and other highlights.
Average total loans were up $497 million or 1% on a year-over-year basis but decreased $799 million or 2% compared to the second quarter.
Loan volume in the third quarter compared to the second quarter was impacted by the continued economic uncertainty and the understandable caution of our customers as well as seasonality in our auto-dealer floor plan loans and a decline in refinanced volumes impacting our mortgage warehouse financing business.
While loans outstanding were down quarter-over-quarter total loan commitments increased $560 million as of September 30 with commitments increasing in nearly all business lines.
In addition our loan pipeline remains strong and is 10% higher than it was a year ago.
And we continue to grow deposits reflecting our relationship banking strategy.
Average total deposits increased $2 billion or 4% year-over-year and $417 million or 1% over second quarter to $51.9 billion.
In further comparing our third quarter results to the second quarter net interest income remained relatively stable at $412 million reflecting the benefit from 1 additional day in the quarter and improved yields in the securities portfolio offset by the decline in loan balances and lower loan yields.
Credit quality continued to be strong resulting in an $8 million provision.
Net charge-offs increased slightly from their low level while nonperforming assets and watch list loans declined resulting in a small reserve release.
Noninterest income increased $6 million to $214 million primarily due to a $4 million increase in customer-driven fee income.
Noninterest expenses increased $1 million to $417 million as an increase in salaries and employee benefits expense was partially offset by decreases in other categories.
Turning to our capital position.
Our capital continues to be a source of strength to support our growth.
At September 30 2013 our tangible common equity ratio was 9.87% and we estimate our Basel III Tier 1 common capital ratio to be 10.4%.
We repurchased 1.7 million shares in the third quarter under our share repurchase program and are now 2 quarters into our 4 quarter share repurchase plan announced last March.
Turning to Slide 5.
We have a unique footprint that primarily covers the major Metropolitan areas in the 3 states you see here: Texas California and Michigan where there are good opportunities to pursue the types of businesses we serve.
Our recent Texas Economic Activity Index showed the state economy ticked up in July after being relatively stable since last November.
Gains in July were broad-based and indicated that upward momentum will likely continue in the months ahead.
We expect the Texas economy to show solid growth through the end of this year.
The FDIC's annual deposit survey as of June 30 2013 recently made public shows that we have increased our market share in Dallas Fort Worth and Austin.
Average loans and deposits in Texas were both up 4% year-over-year reflecting growth in most segments.
Our most recent California Economic Activity Index is ahead of the 2012 average and reflects a variety of factors contributing to the improving but uneven growth in the California economy.
Labor markets are generally improving and residential real estate prices are firming statewide so conditions look favorable for ongoing moderate economic expansion in the state.
We strengthened our market share in the San Jose area according to the FDIC survey while maintaining our market share position in greater Los Angeles.
Average loans in California were up $1.1 billion or 8% year-over-year with growth in most lines of business.
Deposits were down 3% year-over-year primarily due to a decline in deposits attached to our title escrow business as the mortgage refinance market slowed.
Our most recent Michigan Economic Activity Index is well ahead of the average for all of 2012.
Stronger auto sales in late summer should lead to solid production this fall.
Labor markets are firming and house prices are improving so there is broadening support for the Michigan economy.
We strengthened our #2 market share position in Michigan according to the FDIC survey.
Average loans in Michigan were relatively stable year-over-year while deposits grew 4% reflecting increases in every segment.
We remain focused on the bottom line in this uncertain environment with prolonged low rates.
We believe our geographic footprint is well situated in Texas California and Michigan and that our relationship banking strategy will contribute to our continued success.
We are staying the course and maintaining our discipline with an eye on the road ahead.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6 as Ralph mentioned average total loans were up $497 million or 1% on a year-over-year basis.
On a quarter-over-quarter basis average loans decreased $799 million or 2% reflecting a $630 million decrease in commercial loans and $180 million decline in combined Commercial Real Estate construction and mortgage loans.
The decrease in average commercial loans was primarily driven by declines in general Middle Market National Dealer Services and Mortgage Banker Finance all of which I will discuss in more detail on the next slide.
Offsetting some of this decline average loans to our Technology and Life Sciences customers increased $112 million.
In the broad category of Commercial Real Estate loans construction loans grew for the third consecutive quarter and commitments to developers continued to increase.
However we continue to see commercial mortgages decrease for 2 reasons: one Commercial Real Estate construction projects continue to move quickly to the permanent long-term financing markets; and two owner-occupied real estate which makes up 73% of our Commercial Real Estate loans continued to decline with normal amortization.
You can see on the left chart that total period-end loans were down $1.3 billion primarily due to an $875 million decrease in Mortgage Banker Finance and a $354 million decrease in National Dealer Services.
As Ralph mentioned our total loan commitments have increased in nearly all business lines.
With commitments up and outstandings down line utilization decreased to 45.4% from 48.6% at the end of the second quarter.
Mortgage banker and auto dealer were the big drivers of the decline in utilization but even without these 2 businesses utilization was down 1%.
Importantly our loan pipeline remains strong and is 10% higher than it was a year ago.
Finally loan yields shown in the yellow diamonds declined 3 basis points in the quarter reflecting the continued mix shift of our portfolio.
Continuing with loans on Slide 7 we've provided additional data on the 3 major areas affecting our loan performance in the quarter.
General Middle Market average loans were down compared to the second quarter which we believe is related to customer cautiousness.
This belief is supported by the fact that line commitments have increased slightly and average deposits have increased compared to the second quarter.
As shown in the upper right chart National Dealer Services which includes our auto floor plan loans had average total loans decline $223 million in the third quarter after increasing $250 million in the second quarter.
The yellow diamonds show the period end inventory supply on dealer's lot.
As you can see the supply increased at the end of the third quarter and along with that our dealer outstandings grew $133 million in the last 2 weeks of the quarter.
However our average loan balances for the quarter were down in line with the average inventory supply shown by the orange diamond reflecting both the strong sales level in the industry as well as the normal seasonal changeover to new 2014 models.
We expect to continue to see the normal seasonal pattern which would suggest that inventory levels will continue to rebuild in the fourth quarter.
Shown in the bottom right chart Mortgage Banker Finance which provides mortgage warehouse lending lines saw average loans decline $210 million in the third quarter and as I mentioned a moment ago declined $875 million at period end to $1.5 billion.
This was expected given the rise in long-term rates and its impact on the refinancing market and is in line with the decline in mortgage volumes which is shown on the yellow line on the chart.
We expect these loans will continue to decline in the near term but eventually stabilize along with mortgage volumes.
Turning to deposits on Slide 8.
Our total average deposits increased $417 million or 1% to $51.9 billion reflecting increases in most lines of business.
Noninterest-bearing deposits grew $303 million while interest-bearing deposits increased $114 million.
As shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide deposit pricing declined to 18 basis points as higher rate CDs matured and repriced.
Period end deposits increased $1.7 billion primarily reflecting an increase of $2 billion in noninterest-bearing deposits again reflecting growth in most business lines with the largest increase in Corporate Banking.
Slide 9 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
The NBS portfolio averaged $9 billion in the third quarter down $411 million from the second quarter resulting from a decline in the fair value of the portfolio due to the rise in long-term rates combined with the slowdown in the pace of purchases to reinvest prepayments.
The fair value of the portfolio decreased $34 million in pretax in the third quarter resulting in a net unrealized loss position for the portfolio of $24 million.
And the estimated duration of the portfolio increased slightly from 4.1 years at the end of the second quarter to 4.2 years at the end of the third quarter.
This increase in duration resulted in a retrospective adjustment to the premium amortization of $4 million and added 17 basis points to the yield on the portfolio in the third quarter.
The expected duration under a 200-basis-point rate shock remained relatively constant at about 5 years as a result of the composition of our portfolio.
Based on current rate expectations we believe that the pace of prepaids will continue to slow with $350 million to $450 million in prepaids expected in the fourth quarter down from almost $600 million in the third quarter.
We continue to manage our portfolio dynamically taking into account many factors including our loan and deposit expectations as well as overall yields and duration available.
Turning to Slide 10.
Despite the decline in loan volume our net interest income remained relatively stable with a small $2 million decline in the third quarter.
We've summarized in the table on the right the major moving pieces to our net interest income and net interest margin.
The net interest margin declined 4 basis points including a 5-basis-point impact from the $1.2 billion increase in average excess liquidity which added $1 million to net interest income.
Total loan portfolio dynamics reduced net interest income by $7 million or 3 basis points on the net interest margin.
This included a $6 million impact from reduced loans outstanding $5 million from lower loan yields resulting from the continued mix shift in our loan portfolio as well as $1 million decline due to the drop in 30-day LIBOR which decreased over 1 basis point on average in the quarter.
You may recall that approximately 85% of our loans are floating rates of which 75% are LIBOR-based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
And while we remain focused on holding loan spreads for new and renewed credit facilities there are still mix shift dynamics impacting the loan portfolio.
This quarter the mix shift was primarily due to higher-yielding loan balances declining and continued positive credit migration.
Offsetting these negative impacts interest on loans benefited from 1 additional day in the quarter which added $4 million and from $1 million increase in accretion of the purchase discount on the acquired portfolio.
We have recorded $26 million in accretion so far this year and expect to recognize about $2 million to $4 million in the fourth quarter.
We have about $35 million of total accretion remaining which we expect to realize over the next few years at a declining pace.
Dynamics in the securities portfolio had a positive benefit increasing net interest income by $2 million or 3 basis points on the margin primarily the result of a $4 million improvement in yields due to slowing prepayment speeds.
This was partially offset by a decrease in average balances.
Finally lower funding costs including debt maturities in the second quarter as well as lower deposit costs added $2 million and provided a 1 basis point increase to the margin.
We believe our asset-sensitive balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
Based in our historical experience and asset liability model we believe a 200-basis-point increase in rates over a 1-year period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in about a 13% increase in net interest income or approximately $200 million.
This number is higher than the equivalent number in the prior quarter due to our growth in deposits.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 11.
Credit quality continue to be strong in the third quarter.
Net charge-offs increased slightly to $19 million or 18 basis points of average loans.
The charts on the right show our watch list loans declined $210 million and our nonperforming loans declined $12 million.
With a decline in nonperforming loans the allowance to NPLs increased to 131%.
And as you can see on the lower left chart our $604 million allowance for loan losses covers our trailing 12 months net charge-offs over 6x.
As a result of the continued positive trends in our credit metrics our provision for credit losses declined $5 million from the second quarter to $8 million resulting in a small reserve release.
Finally as we mentioned last quarter we received the annual Shared National Credit exam results at the end of June.
They were reflected in our second quarter numbers and were not significant.
Slide 12 outlines the $6 million increase in noninterest income which was driven by a $4 million increase in customer-driven fees.
Commercial lending fees were the largest contributor increasing $6 million due to higher syndication agent fees and higher facility fees charged on commitments.
These increases were partially offset by a decline in fiduciary income primarily due to seasonally higher fees in the second quarter related to tax return preparation.
The increase in noncustomer-driven income was primarily due to an increase of $5 million in warrant income from the exercise of warrants related to some Technology and Life Sciences relationships.
Somewhat offsetting this increase was a decline in incentives received from our third-party credit card provider.
Last quarter we booked the full $6 million annual incentive payment.
Going forward we will record this incentive which can vary from year to year on a quarterly basis.
Turning to Slide 13.
Our expenses remained well controlled which resulted in relatively stable expenses in the third quarter.
Salaries and benefits expense increased $10 million.
This reflected an increase in incentives as well as 1 additional day in the third quarter which was partially offset by lower staff insurance expense.
The incentive expense increase includes a year-to-date accrual adjustment for senior officers incentives based on favorable performance relative to peers as well as an increase in business unit incentive in line with increased loan commitments fee income and deposits.
Offsetting the salary and benefit increase was a decline in other noninterest expenses.
This included a decrease of $6 million in litigation-related expenses primarily due to a $5 million legal reserve release following the pending settlement of a class action case.
And we had a $4 million write-down on other foreclosed assets in the second quarter that was not repeated.
Moving to Slide 14 and shareholder payout.
In the third quarter we repurchased 1.7 million shares under our share repurchase program.
Combined with the dividends paid we returned 70% of net income to our shareholders in the third quarter.
We believe our shareholder payout is a reflection of our strong capital position with an estimated Basel III Tier 1 common capital ratio of 10.4% at September 30 on a fully phased-in basis excluding the impact of AOCI.
Shares repurchased were more than offset by share dilution primarily from our warrants as average stock price increased during the quarter.
Finally turning to Slide 15 and our outlook.
We have typically provided a year-over-year outlook and updated it through the year.
Along those lines know that our expectations for full year 2013 compared to full year 2012 remains unchanged with the exception of customer-driven fee income.
Given the strong fee generation we had particularly in the third quarter we do believe that our full year 2013 customer-driven fees will be modestly higher than our 2012 customer-driven fees.
Turning to the final quarter of the year.
This slide outlines our expectations for the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter.
We expect average loans to be stable with third quarter levels.
We believe we will see a rebound on our auto dealer floor plan loans as dealers receive their 2014 model inventory and we expect mortgage banker outstandings to continue to decline in line with the Mortgage Banker association forecast for mortgage origination.
We also intend to maintain our pricing and structure discipline which is core to our culture and has served us well throughout economic cycles.
Net interest income is expected to be lower in the fourth quarter due to an expected decline in purchase accounting accretion as well as the continued effect of the low rate environment.
We expect loan portfolio yields to decline due to the continued loan mix shift and improving asset quality.
With continued strong credit quality we expect net charge-off provision and reserve release to remain low similar to what we have seen in the past 3 quarters.
We expect customer-driven noninterest income for the fourth quarter to be relatively stable as we believe we will be able to continue to generate the solid fees we booked in the third quarter.
On the other hand noncustomer-related income can include volatile and unusual items.
For example we had a $6 million annual incentive payment from our third-party credit card processor in the second quarter and a $6 million in warrant income from Technology and Life Sciences customers in the third quarter.
These types of items are difficult to predict but overall we expect noncustomer-related income should decline in the fourth quarter.
Finally we expect slightly lower expenses in the fourth quarter as we continue to manage expenses carefully.
Incentive compensation should be lower in the fourth quarter given the year-to-date accrual adjustment we incurred in the third quarter.
This will be offset by additional expenses related to regulatory compliance predominantly stress testing as well as seasonality of certain expenses such as occupancy.
In summary we will continue to focus on the things we can control allocating resources to our faster-growing markets and industry segments to grow relationships while carefully managing expenses.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I could start looking at core C&amp;I loan trends excluding mortgage banker and dealer finance you've seen a real weakening over the past few quarters.
I know you said commercial customers are cautious something you've said over the last few quarters but do you have a sense why customers seem to be getting so much more cautious here? And how do you reconcile that with your customers continuing to want more commitments but then going on to borrow even less? Lars you want to take that one? Yes well a couple of things Steve.
First of all if you look back over the last several quarters you'll see a continued increase actually.
If you look over the last 1.5 years about a $4 billion increase overall in commercial loan outstandings.
That's about 18% in growth.
But your point is well taken that we have seen utilization rates decline this quarter.
If you strip out the Mortgage Banking Finance and National Dealer Services utilization rates are down about 1% on the rest of the businesses.
Frankly I think it's a reflection.
And I spend a lot of time with customers and they have just continued uncertainty about the current economic environment.
It's difficult for them to make investment decisions with pretty unclear economic horizon right now.
So we're going to focus on what we can control and that is making sure that in the markets we serve we continue to grow customers which we're doing.
We're broadening customer relationships.
You see these commitments continue to rise and I think we're going to be well positioned.
Once the confidence returns we're going to start to see access to those commitments.
And I think we have some nice upside potential there Steve once that confidence does return to the marketplace at least for the markets that we serve in Texas California and Michigan and some of our industry groups.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe one just for Karen.
How should we think about the timeline to deploy this excess liquidity position that you built up in the securities book over the next quarter or so or do you hold some of that for eventual loan growth? No problem Steve.
Thank you.
Our securities portfolio we treat on a very dynamic basis.
That includes the excess liquidity that we hold at the Fed.
We do want to remain positioned for loan growth and as we think about that we will manage it dynamically taking into account the forward factors around where we think our deposits are going where we think our loans are going.
And we are also mindful of our securities portfolio the long-term effect that that could have particularly on our tangible common equity as that will be mark-to-market in a rising rate environment.
Research Division</strong> Does that imply that you just hold this position about where it stands today? We'll continue to manage it dynamically.
We can't say whether we'll hold it or not but it will be a dynamic equation.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to go back on the loan growth question for a second.
When we looked at your footprint places like California Texas healthy economies that are growing it doesn't seem to be coming through in the loan growth.
Is it just potentially big types of industry groups that you guys are dealing with? I'm just curious.
What's the disconnect there? Well I think what -- Lars can follow up on this too but underlying what he was talking about earlier is our customers are doing very well in the economies where they are and the footprint that we have.
But they're being very cautious about investing for the future like they normally would until they get a good feeling as to as Lars put it what the rules will be going forward.
And as we all know we have a lot going on right now in Washington as well and people are holding and waiting and watching to see what's going to happen before they move forward.
Yes let me just -- to really underscore Ralph's point if you take Michigan as an example in the automotive industry we bank some of the best in the business there.
In the Middle Market space they're doing very well.
They're generating a lot of excess cash.
And frankly they're delevering.
I was with a customer just a couple of weeks ago.
They're running 3 shifts.
They're running about 100% capacity.
His position was we're going to continue this through the end of year kind of get through the window.
But he said frankly he's prepared to make some very significant investments in '14 if the auto industry continues at the pace that it's on.
And frankly I think most would expect that.
In Texas I think if you look at those numbers our underlying kind of general Middle Market activity and commitment levels are very good.
In fact if you look at our commitments in linked quarters they were up very nicely in Texas.
But you did have some impact from Energy which is based here out of again unique industry based out of Texas.
The Energy portfolio has been fairly flat the last couple of quarters and that certainly figures into the math and the geography as a number of our Energy customers really focused on harvesting existing investments and accessing the bond market in paying down debt.
But they're the same customers.
We're well positioned and we're well positioned for growth with them as they start to refocus on CapEx and rig counts go up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So could we just switch to the capital side for a second? You guys are obviously in a very strong position as you head into your first round of CCAR.
Just when you think about the potential what you would ask for under CCAR is there any change to the thought process under the CapPR scenario meaning this is the first time you're going through this particular process? Any change in the mindset around that? Yes it is the first time that we will be moving from a CapPR bank to a CCAR bank.
We have been investing very heavily in people and technology to improve our process as a CCAR bank.
It's too early to talk about what our potential capital ask would be though.
But I think it's important to know that we continue to believe that we come at this from a position of capital strength.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a question just around pricing and I know last quarter the large Corporate segment took a bit of a decline just due to you guys stepping away from what you were seeing in terms of pricing.
Can you talk about that this quarter and maybe more in terms of Middle Market and what you're seeing in terms of how that's impacted your loan balances and the decisions you had to make around that? Lars? Sure.
Well let me just clarify something from the second quarter earnings call.
The Corporate Banking space continues to be a very important business for us in the long term.
We've got some great customers there that we continue to work with and grow.
And we're just having to be more selective in terms of new opportunities because that is where we see the most competitive space not just from a pricing perspective but also from a structure perspective.
And this is clearly not the time to overreach.
If you do there's consequences so we're being patient.
We're being very focused.
We've got some great bankers a lot of experience.
And I think it's going to be a segment that's going to grow in the future.
But we're going to be patient and we're going to be disciplined about our relationship pricing.
In the Middle Market segment it's a competitive marketplace out there across our footprint.
It's hard to pick one geography over another to say which is the most competitive today.
I think the thing that you got to focus on is making sure that your bankers are spending a lot of time in the marketplace and they're spending a lot of time with customers and prospects building out those relationships.
And I'd remind you there's ways to improve profitability client profitability just beyond the credit pricing and that's your broadening relationships and we're focusing on that as you'll see client-driven noninterest income gains.
We're very focused on cross-sell.
But it's a challenging market but I think that we've got the right business model.
The Middle Market knows that we've been committed to it for a very long time and we're very well positioned for a recovering economic environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my other follow-up was just around Technology and Life Sciences and maybe any color around the growth you did have this quarter.
Was that any of that market share gains or was that all just kind of the growth of the segment? Yes.
So you saw the IPO market obviously pick up more recently.
And frankly at the end of the day the IPO market the exit market really drives the whole Technology and Life Sciences kind of space.
You've got to have active DCs [ph] and private equity investment to make that work well.
If you look at the -- if you break it down if you look at the early stage part of Technology and Life Sciences we continue to have very very strong national market share and we're very active in that space.
We've also seen some excellent growth in our equity fund services business where we provide both core banking services credit services into venture capital -- capitalist and private equity firms that have been very successful and recently announced that we had opened a new office in New York where we're seeing a lot of growth and that's gotten a lot of traction.
We've also opened an additional office in Houston hired some great bankers there and we're seeing some nice successes there.
So I see this as a good long-term growth business for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> First question just on expenses I want to clarify the -- obviously your guidance is for lower expenses in the fourth quarter.
It seemed like it was because of an accrual adjustment and third quarter being a little higher.
Is that right? But are you undertaking any more I want to say aggressive expense initiatives to keep expenses lower given what we're seeing on the loan side? Yes thanks Ken.
You are right.
One of the key reasons that we expect expenses to be lower in the fourth quarter is because we did have a year-to-date accrual adjustment in the third quarter around incentive comps given our relative performance to our peers so that is one of the big drivers.
We do expect some expenses to increase in the fourth quarter as I mentioned namely some seasonal expenses like occupancy as well as some expenses related to stress testing capital planning.
On expenses in general we remain keenly focused on managing our expenses as we have for the past several years and we will continue to do that but there are not any major aggressive initiatives as we manage those expenses.
It's really just continuing to do what we've done all along.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then in terms of the slower prepayments I know you highlighted the $600 million down to $350 million to $450 million.
I'm assuming that the lower premium amortization is in your lower NII guidance but can you quantify that? Like how much potentially comes from slower premium amortization versus the negatives of the other items? Yes you're right it is in our guidance.
And yes we do expect slower prepays next quarter.
We continually look at the life of our portfolio each quarter the expected life.
And as we continue to look at it if rates continue to rise and prepays continue to slow the expected life of our portfolio will extend a little bit and that could result in some slower premium amortization going forward and a possible reversal of premium previously recognized but that shouldn't be by a material amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification question the incentive payment from the third-party credit card provider.
Presumably we had it last quarter.
We -- we're not expecting it this quarter so actually this quarter was a surprise positive.
It was extra income versus what we normally would've assumed.
Just want to make sure I'm right on that.
Yes.
So as I mentioned we used to record that incentive payment on an annual basis.
We now will accrue it each quarter going forward.
So yes last quarter did have an annual payment and this quarter had some accrual.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the efficiency outlook for next year.
I think you mentioned Karen that you're controlling the things that you can control and your efficiency ratio has been consistent in about 67% over the past several quarters.
As we look out into 2014 if there's not a significant improvement in the loan growth outlook and the rate environment remains what it is is there more room on the expense side to drop that efficiency ratio from the 67%? Or is most of the efficiency improvement from here going to come from the revenue side? Yes.
We -- as you know Erika we did set a long-term efficiency ratio target to be below 60% and we continue to focus on moving toward that target regardless of the overall environment.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
So I just wanted to make sure I understood that.
If nothing changes on the revenue picture you're still committed to taking it down below 60% on the other side of the equation? Yes.
When we first announced that target we did show a walk forward of what it will take to get there which includes loan growth fee growth keeping expenses as flat as possible and the fact that we would need a little bit of a rate environment uptick to ultimately get over the goal line but certainly not a normal rate environment to get over the goal line.
And so as we think about that in the near term without a rate environment uptick we won't necessarily get over the goal line but we will continue to bring that efficiency ratio down.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just a follow-up to Steve's question on the liquidity.
Are you comfortable with your liquidity levels relative to the liquidity proposals that are -- might -- may be finalized at the end of this year? In other words if the LCR passes as defined how much excess liquidity do you have to redeploy? Yes so the rules are far from final.
We don't even have an initial draft or an NPR out in the United States.
We are continuing to monitor that heavily.
On the LCR ratio as guided by the Basel III committee we and all banks would need to add liquid assets to our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more question if I may.
The larger banks have to deal with the supplementary leverage ratio that has them holding 100% capital against unfunded lines of commitment.
Do you think that's an opportunity for potentially market share taking for regional banks like yours that don't have to deal with the SLR? Or is it way too early to tell? I think it's very early to tell because there are so many other things that can affect the competitive environment.
You are right in the case that we at least as proposed right now will not need to adhere to a supplemental leverage ratio.
We do however need to adhere to the normal leverage ratio which for us is not the binding constraint.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Loan growth front I wanted to get a little bit more clarity on what you're seeing on the Commercial Real Estate front.
I know you gave us some good color that you're seeing borrowers remain cautious on the commercial front in general but are you seeing any noted improvement in CRE lending? I know that some of the other CRE lenders are starting to see improving drawdowns on that front.
Lars do you want to take that? Yes sir.
We -- as you can see in our numbers our actual construction lending continues to make gains.
We again showed another quarter of growth there.
There is -- there's a lot of volume out there.
We're positioned in terrific states Texas and California where you're seeing in particular a disproportionate amount of multi-family activity.
And I think we're certainly getting our share.
In fact if you go to that page I think it's 24 in the slides it gives you a pretty good view of what's going on with our Commercial Real Estate portfolio.
And as you see the construction loans continue to increase.
What you'll also notice is that the commercial mortgage loans we have not seen that kind of increase and there's really 2 components to that.
The first is the mini perms that is the conversion of construction projects over to a short-term extension of credits typically 3 to 5 years for our developers for them to stabilize and position the market to go to the permanent market or sell the product.
What they're seeing is a higher velocity of these projects moving more rapidly to the permanent market.
The permanent market is taking at this point unstabilized in some cases projects which is very unusual and different from say going back a year ago.
The other component of that would be owner occupied.
In the owner-occupied space you're continuing to see given the profile or the kinds of customers that we bank they continue to delever.
You see natural amortization.
You see them paying off some of that longer-term debt that's on their balance sheet.
And one last thing I'd note there are some lenders in the marketplace that are providing what I would say is longer-term financing within banking that is outside of our underwriting standards 15- 20-year kind of fixed-rate financing 30-year amortization.
And that's not something that we do.
So again a time not to overreach.
We're going to focus working with our developers and we got the same stable of them.
We're picking up some new ones.
These are typically very strong developers that have liquid positions.
They're putting a lot of liquidity into these projects.
And one of the things that I would point out with the increase in the construction portfolio we are expecting that we will see advances under those credit facilities as we kind of go down the road and as they fulfill their obligation to properly equitize these projects.
So I think we're well positioned.
I think we got great long-term markets.
We got great bankers and I think that this is a business that will serve us well as we head down the road.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
So the permanent financing players the insurance companies and the conduit fencers are certainly getting more aggressive? Yes absolutely.
Both -- you see it in the pricing for sure but you also see it in the structure.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then secondly on the pricing side can you give us a little bit of actual data points there in terms of where you're seeing new money yields come in on C&amp;I and CRE right now? I wish I could tell you exactly kind of take an off-the-shelf price for you that would make it easy.
But we handle one relationship at a time at Comerica.
Each one of them are individually underwritten.
There's no standardized product.
We look at the overall relationship.
It's beyond just the credit.
It has to do with how deep we get into the relationship.
I'm really proud of the success we're making for example in deepening our relationships across into Wealth Management.
We've seen a 50% increase in the penetration rate in Wealth Management services to our customers over the last couple of years.
That's a lot of progress that's been made and that all goes into ensuring that we're getting the right kinds of returns on the relationship for our shareholders.
But I'll sum it up maybe helping you a little bit and just say that I don't see any easing in the competitiveness in the marketplace.
It continues to be very aggressive.
There's too few opportunities for the demand that's out there so we're having to be very patient and careful.
But we're also having to be more active in the marketplace looking for the right kinds of opportunities for the companies developers that are looking for the value proposition that we deliver that relationship banking kind of strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My questions have been answered.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the mortgage warehouse business.
I mean it looks like the average balances are down much less than I would've guessed given industry volume and I'm curious what to make of that.
And then the end-of-period balance is down a lot more.
How much of that is the normal end-of-period volatility? And how much of that is something that's more of an indicator of where we are headed into the next quarter? Okay very good.
I'll take it the second piece of it first which is the ending balances.
I'll tell you it's very difficult to tell.
There's a lot of variability at the end of each quarter and a lot of it has to do with the investors and kind of the activity levels that we see in terms of migrating those to the investor community.
It's difficult to use that as a proxy for the fourth quarter but maybe going back to the first part of your question will help you with that second part.
And that is the mortgage banking association's projection is that we were down 27% in the third quarter in overall mortgage volume nationally as you probably know.
We were down a little bit under 12% in averages so we clearly outperformed the industry in terms of averages.
But you get to the end of the quarter and obviously we were down significantly significantly more which is not all that unusual.
However the MBA is forecasting an additional kind of 20% 30% decline heading into the fourth quarter of the year.
So that could clearly impact the outstandings that we have in our portfolio.
A strategic issue that I want to point out and I think that has served us very well if you go back to 2011 we have increased the number of mortgage companies that we finance staying very true to our strategy of the strongest and the best in the industry.
We've increased the number of customers that we serve by 40%.
So the business has become much more granular we have a broader base.
The second piece of it is this in the national market 49% of the mortgage volume was purchase.
Our average for the third quarter was 71%.
In other words it was much more skewed toward purchase volumes which frankly has been a strategic initiative of ours to make sure that we try to capture what to me appear to be a recovering national housing market and would likely be a slowing refi market and I think that's played out well for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like the better performance versus the industry in the quarter is part purchase versus refi mix and part continued growth in customers? That's a fair synopsis? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then what happened to yields in that portfolio in the quarter? We're starting to see more activity there.
There's more players in the market and we're seeing more pressure unquestionably as more competitors enter the space seeing it as an opportunity.
We're going to have to continue to stay very focused on our relationship pricing overall.
One thing that we're very much focused on in trying to offset some of the compression areas even deepening the -- our relationships with those customers in terms of cross-sell and we're doing that.
In fact our treasury management penetration into that space continues to grow disproportionately to the rest of the franchise and I think that that's a real positive.
But that's going to be clearly a challenge for us as there's fewer opportunities and there's more players in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then I guess changing gears one last question.
I just want to be sure I'm thinking about net interest income in the fourth quarter correctly.
I mean it sounds like it should be something on the magnitude of at least $8 million to $10 million lower and that you lose $4 million to $6 million of premium amortization and you shouldn't have the $4 million retroactive adjustment on premium adjustment on the MBS portfolio.
Is that a fair way to think about how we enter the fourth quarter and then you've got sort of the normal drag from the low rate environment? Yes.
So we do expect net interest income to be lower as we mentioned.
You're right on the numbers that you put out for accretion on the loan portfolio.
It's difficult to predict what we would do on the securities portfolio and the premium amortization because that is a very dynamic equation but you have the direction correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So my follow-up question is for Karen.
On the expense side to Ken's question earlier so I'm calculating about a $6 million impact for the accrual in the quarter.
You talked about a $5 million reserve legal reserve release.
So I guess those 2 seem to be offsetting.
I guess what I'm thinking about though is when I look at the other noninterest expense line it was $37 million this quarter.
I'm thinking that that $5 million reserve release came out of there so that's running still a couple of million dollars later than it's been for the last 5 or 6 quarters.
And I was trying to find out maybe you can update guidance to that $15 million CCAR expense item.
Would have thought we would've seen some of that here in the third quarter so maybe you can kind of -- so does that make sense first of all all the math that I was kind of throwing together with that noninterest expense line being something that's more like a $42 million quarterly run rate? And then where can we find the CCAR expense build in the numbers? Sure.
On our regulatory expenses we did talk about that being approximately $15 million in an increase in expenses.
Most of that -- the vast majority of it is already built into our run rate you are correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question for Lars.
I know Karen you said at the -- I think you said at the end of the last 2 weeks of the quarter the National Dealer Services book grew about $133 million.
And I'm wondering I guess Lars do you think that we do see this fourth quarter build the net book -- there was an article out yesterday in the Automotive News expecting that sales volumes could be down 10% here in the fourth quarter because of the government shutdown.
So does that extend the inventories a little bit longer? Does it take the dealers a little bit longer to rebuild that inventory? Or I guess how should we think about the pace and how fast dealers will rebuild inventories during the fourth quarter? Right.
So first of all regarding the government kind of issues I'm -- I don't really think that that's going to have a significant impact at this point on our overall Dealer portfolio.
I just had lunch in the last 2 days with one of our largest automotive customers.
And frankly things are as good with him and his business which is in both Michigan and in Texas as it's ever been.
Yes he's seeing that typical seasonal new model turnover.
Karen talked about the days on hand in inventory that we typically see.
You didn't see that a year ago.
That was because the Japanese were rebuilding their model brands in this country but historically you see it.
You saw -- you're seeing it this year.
We did begin to see the rebuilding of inventory levels.
But typically it happens gradually as we go through the fourth quarter up right through the end of the year.
And if you look at historically the average days on hand in January typically is kind of the highest level of the year that's our peak month.
So hopefully that gives you some insight.
I -- frankly I'm very bullish on our Dealer business.
Our dealers -- when I talk about there's variation in how our customers are feeling clearly this is an industry where largely our customers are feeling very good.
They're making a lot of money.
They're well positioned.
They're rebranding and refacing a lot of their facilities.
You can see that probably in your own marketplace.
And auto sales remain up so we're well positioned.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it thanks for that color.
And I guess maybe I can squeeze in one quick one.
I don't know if John Killian is there but Texas provisions went up this quarter.
Is there anything to think about what's going on there in Texas versus all the positive credit performance in the rest of the geographies? John? Sure Brian.
There's nothing unusual there from a portfolio trend standpoint.
Texas suffers a little bit from having such great basic loan quality that when 1 or 2 deals does happen to have some distress it looks like an aberration and that's how I view it as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So can you tell us whether that was Commercial Real Estate or C&amp;I or...
It was C&amp;I Middle Market C&amp;I.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rochester with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on Bob's question on the Mortgage Banker Finance business.
You mentioned the pricing came in this quarter.
I was just wondering if you could provide the delta there over the last quarter.
And if you give the current yield on that portfolio that would be great.
Yes we don't give yields out for that specific portfolio.
It is a portfolio that has higher yields than some of our others so...
Yes.
So we've seen -- I'll just put it to you this way we've seen slight compression.
And if you look at our current portfolio against our new and renewed there's a very slight compression there but it continues to be a very attractive overall business for Comerica.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one last one.
Sorry if you already covered this but the bump-up in the commercial mortgage yield during the quarter what the driver was there? Yes.
That was mainly due to attrition of securities that were lower yielding and as well as accretion.
Your last question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.
A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Lars I just had a question.
You drew down a little bit in Texas vis-à-vis the Energy portfolio a little bit of a decline there sequentially but can you kind of talk about the other loan segments within the Texas market? I was I guess surprised given the strength of that market in general that we had that sort of sequential decline in outstanding balances.
Right yes.
So I think some of the big story if you just look at the overall growth in Texas obviously we had some nonstrategic assets in Commercial Real Estate that were running off.
That certainly impacted some of our numbers.
You heard me talk about the Energy portfolio that leveled out as a number of our customers accessed the overall bond market and paid down some of their senior debt.
But frankly I'm very encouraged.
We've got -- we've added additional Middle Market bankers in the Houston market that continues to grow.
We're seeing nice growth there in Middle Market.
The Dallas-Fort Worth market we're seeing good activities there pipelines.
And I would also point out we're seeing really nice activities in small business.
In fact not just nationally but also in Texas in particular we've seen sequential quarters of small business outstandings growing.
So I think if you put all that together along with our Wealth Management it's -- we're very well positioned in this day.
I think we've got a lot of the right businesses.
I'd point out one other business that's fairly significant here and we've got a nice presence and we expanded and that's Technology and Life Sciences.
I've told you I see this as a long-term growth business for us.
We have -- that is based out of Austin Texas which is a hotbed for tech companies.
That continues to grow be very active.
We're seeing pipelines grow there.
We've expanded into Houston.
I think we'll see that grow.
We've added bankers in Environmental Services that are really canvassing the state.
And again as -- we're seeing increased cap levels their CapEx levels and Environmental Services as a lot of companies are very focused on going green.
Reclamation recycling is becoming a bigger part of their overall capital base and we're going to take advantage of that because we've got a lot of expertise in that industry.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Ralph Babb Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you very much for joining us on the call today.
We appreciate your interest and hope everybody has a good day.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Cony and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you Cony.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our fourth quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional detail on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements and in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in this release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported fourth quarter 2013 net income of $145 million or $0.77 per share compared to $147 million or $0.78 per share in the third quarter and $130 million or $0.68 per share in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Full year 2013 earnings per share were up 12% for 2012 to $3.
Turning to Slide 4 and highlights for fiscal year 2013.
2013 net income increased 9% primarily as a result of tight expense control and strong credit quality offsetting the headwinds of the continuing low rate environment.
Our relationship banking focus and our customers' strength in this uncertain national economy continued to drive growth in average loans and deposits in 2013.
Average total loans increased $1.1 billion or 3% in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily reflecting an increase of $1.7 billion or 7% in commercial loans with National Dealer Services and general middle market providing the biggest contribution.
Average total deposits increased $2.2 billion or 4% in 2013 with increases in all three of our major markets.
Our capital position remains solid supports our growth and provides us the ability to return excess capital to our shareholders.
We repurchased 7.4 million shares in 2013 under our share repurchase program.
Together with dividends we returned 73% of 2013 net income to shareholders.
We recently filed our 2014-2015 capital plan with the Federal Reserve which is expected to release its summary results in March.
Turning to Slide 5 and highlights from our fourth quarter results.
When compared to the third quarter of 2013 average loans remain stable at $44.1 billion as increases in National Dealer Services and technology and life sciences were offset by a decrease in Mortgage Banker Finance.
Growth trends were positive throughout the quarter resulting in period-end total loans increasing $1.3 billion to $45.5 billion.
This reflected increases across most lines of business.
Total loan commitments are at their highest levels in four years increasing $716 million from the end of the third quarter with commitments up in nearly all business lines.
Line utilization also increased to 46.9%.
In addition our loan pipeline remains strong.
Average deposits increased $904 million or 2% to $52.8 billion compared to the third quarter of 2013 reflecting increases in most lines of business and all primary markets.
Fourth quarter net interest income increased $18 million or 4% to $430 million primarily as a result of a $15 million increase in accretion on purchased credit-impaired loans which was greater than expected.
Credit quality continued to be strong with the provision for credit losses and net charge-offs remaining at low levels.
Non-interest income decreased $10 million to $204 million reflecting decreases of $5 million in customer driven fee income and $5 million in non-customer driven fee income.
Non-interest expenses increased to $429 million.
Excluding an increase of $6 million in deferred compensation other expenses increased to $6 million primarily due to a $5 million increase in litigation related expenses from a low third quarter amount.
Turning to Slide 6.
Recent national economic data supports a cautiously optimistic view of 2014.
Home prices continued to increase with home builders picking up the pace late last year.
Consumer confidence is climbing and auto sales are solid.
Job growth has been reasonable although the unemployment rate remains high for this point in the cycle.
We expect business confidence to gradually improve this year as uncertainty diminishes.
Taking a closer look at economic conditions within our primary footprint of Texas California and Michigan we can see the advantages of our geographic diversity.
North Texas is positioned for ongoing growth in 2014 as labor markets continue to show strong expansion.
Energy continues to be a strong pillar of the North Texas economy and healthcare related construction is booming contributing to strong organic growth.
The shale boom and subsequent reemergence of the U.S.
as a global leader in petroleum production has placed Houston at the center of a rapidly changing global energy market.
Economic growth is expected to be strong in 2014 as the Houston metro area unemployment rate remains well below the U.S.
average.
Period-end loans and deposits in Texas in 2013 were up 1% and 10% respectively from 2012.
The Northern California economy is expected to show moderate growth in 2014 supported by it high-tech sector and improving real estate markets.
The outlook for Northern California consumer spending is solid for next year.
The positive wealth effect from increased home-owners equity and steady income growth should be a boost to retail sales in the region heading into 2014.
While Southern California labor markets continued to underperform the national average in 2013 the region is making headway in recovering from the recession.
After a three quarter contraction beginning in the first quarter of 2012 the labor force has consistently expanded for the past four quarters ending in the third quarter of 2013.
In 2013 California period-end loans were up 7% while deposits were down 4%.
The decline in deposits was primarily in our business that serves title and escrow companies.
Within Michigan where we have had a presence for 164 years the Detroit area is still expanding but at a slower rate.
The Detroit metro area is still adding jobs but job growth is underperforming the U.S.
average.
The auto industry has regained its footing providing a boost to the Detroit regional and national economies.
And auto related and furniture manufacturing industries are the mainstays of the Central West Michigan economy as that regional economy continues to improve.
In 2013 Michigan period-end loans were down 1% as commercial mortgages continued to amortize while deposits were up 2%.
In closing our strategy remains unchanged and we continue to stay the course focused on growing the bottom line in this low rate environment.
Our conservative approach to banking continues to serve us well including our credit management investment strategy and capital position.
We are pleased with our footprint where there are many opportunities to leverage our relationship banking strategy by providing our customers with the products and services they deserve.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 7 and loan growth.
We saw the typical seasonal broad-based improvement in loan demand throughout the fourth quarter with period-end loans greater than average in almost every business line.
Total average loans quarter-over-quarter were stable.
However on a period end basis loans increased to $1.3 billion or 3% to $45.5 billion.
Commercial loans increased $918 million and construction loans increased $210 million.
Our period-end loan growth significantly outpaced the industry which grew 1.3% based on the Fed's H8 data for U.S.
large commercial banks from October 2nd to January 1st.
Also as Ralph mentioned our loan commitments increased in nearly all business lines.
Line utilization increased to 46.9% from 45.6% at the end of the third quarter.
National Dealer Services was the biggest driver of the increase in utilization.
Importantly our loan pipeline remains strong.
In the broad category of commercial real estate loans average construction loans grew for the fifth consecutive quarter and commitments to developers continued to increase.
Also while down on average commercial mortgages were stable on a period-end basis.
Real estate construction projects appear to be moving less quickly to the permanent long-term financing market.
However owner occupied real estate which makes up about 80% of our commercial mortgages continued to decline with normal amortization.
Finally loan yields shown in the yellow diamonds increased 14 basis points in the quarter with higher accretion accounting for about 14 basis points and an increase on interest collected on non-accrual loans accounting for about 4 basis points.
We have provided additional data on loan trends in the quarter on Slide 8.
As I mentioned a moment ago loan trends were positive throughout the quarter with almost all of our business lines growing.
The largest contributors to the period-end loan growth are listed on the slide.
Two businesses which have had some variability this year are depicted in the charts.
In the upper chart National Dealer Services which includes our auto floor plan loans had average loans rebound $353 million in the fourth quarter after decreasing $223 million in the third quarter.
Loan outstandings generally follow inventory supply on dealers' lots which increased in the fourth quarter due to normal seasonal change over to new 2014 models.
Shown in the bottom chart mortgage banker finance which provides mortgage warehouse lines saw average loans decrease $496 million in the fourth quarter.
Period-end balances declined $147 million to $1.4 billion.
This was expected given the industry-wide decline in mortgage volumes which is shown in the yellow line on the chart.
Turning to deposits on Slide 9.
Our total average deposits increased $904 million or 2% to $52.8 billion reflecting increases in most lines of business.
Non-interest bearing deposits grew $1.2 billion while interest bearing deposits declined $249 million.
As shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide deposit pricing declined to 17 basis points due to higher rate CDs maturing and selective deposit rate adjustment.
Period-end deposits increased $383 million primarily reflecting an increase of $404 million in interest-bearing deposits.
Slide 10 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of highly liquid highly rated mortgage-backed securities.
The NBS portfolio was stable with the third quarter averaging $9 billion.
The fair value of the portfolio decreased $73 million pretax in the fourth quarter resulting in a net unrealized loss position for the portfolio of $97 million.
The estimated duration of our portfolio remains steady at 4.2 years at the end of the fourth quarter.
Slower prepayment speeds including a retrospective adjustment to the premium amortization similar to the third quarter added $1 million or 5 basis points to the yield.
The expected duration under a 200 basis point rate shock remained relatively constant at about 4.8 years as a result of the composition of our portfolio.
Based on current rate expectations we believe that the pace of prepays will be about $300 million to $400 million in the first quarter similar to the fourth quarter and down from almost $600 million in the third quarter.
In light of the fact that Fannie and Freddie backed securities are subject to haircut and a cap under the recently proposed liquidity coverage ratio we have started to invest in Ginnie Mae securities.
We are selectively seeking similar duration premium and yield dimensions to what we have in our current portfolio.
We will continue to manage our portfolio dynamically taking into account many factors including our loan and deposit expectations as well as the overall yields and duration available.
Turning to Slide 11.
Fourth quarter net interest income increased $18 million or 4%.
We have summarized in the table on the right the major moving pieces of our net interest income and net interest margin.
The biggest driver was better than expected performance of the acquired Sterling portfolio which resulted in a $15 million increase in accretion to $23 million in the fourth quarter.
The remaining accretion on the portfolio is about $35 million and we expect to realize this accretion at a declining pace over the next few years.
Accordingly for 2014 we expect to recognize accretion of about $10 million to $20 million.
Also impacting loan interest income we had a $5 million increase in interest collected on non-accrual loans.
Partially offsetting this was a $4 million decline from lower loan yields resulting from the continued mix shift in our portfolio as well as a drop in 30-day LIBOR which decreased 2 basis points on average to 17 basis points in the quarter.
You may recall that approximately 85% of our loans are floating rates of which 75% are LIBOR based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
And while we remain focused on holding spreads for new and renewed credit facilities there are still mix shift dynamics impacting the loan portfolio.
This quarter the mix shift was primarily due to an increase in lower-yielding loans like auto-dealer floor plans and continued positive credit migration.
As I mentioned on the previous slide dynamics in the securities portfolio provided a positive benefit increasing net interest income by $1 million or 1 basis point on the margin primarily as a result of an improvement in yields due to slowing prepayment speed.
Lower funding costs specifically lower deposit costs added $1 million and provided 1 basis point increase to the margin.
Finally we had $1.1 billion increase in excess liquidity which had a 5 basis point negative impact on the margin.
As you have heard before we believe we remain well positioned for a rise in short-term rates.
Based on our historical experience and asset liability model we believe a 200-basis point increase in rates over a 1-year period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in about a 13% increase in net interest income or approximately $210 million.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 12.
Credit quality continued to be strong in the fourth quarter.
Net charge-offs decreased to $13 million or 12 basis points of average loans and included $28 million in recoveries.
The chart on the upper right shows our criticized loans which are consistent with regulatory defined special mention substandard doubtful and loss classifications and are similar to what we formerly referred to as watch list loans.
These loans declined $201 million and our non-performing loans declined $85 million.
With a decline in nonperforming loans the allowance to NPLs increased to 160%.
And as you can see on the lower left chart our $598 million allowance for loan losses covers our trailing 12-month net charge-offs over 8 times.
As a result of the continued positive trends in our credit metrics and growth in our loan commitments our provision for credit losses was relatively stable at $9 million resulting in a small reserve release.
Slide 13 outlines non-interest income which was driven by a $5 million decrease in customer driven fees and a $5 million decrease in non-customer related income.
As far as customer driven fees following a strong third quarter the fourth quarter was impacted by slower economic activity and two fewer business days.
Therefore we had small declines in several categories such as letters of credit card fees customer derivative fees and investment banking.
The decrease in these items was partially offset by an increase in fiduciary income as we continued to expand this business.
The decrease in noncustomer-driven income was primarily due to several items which were unusually high in the third quarter such as warrant income bank owned life insurance and incentives received from our third party credit card processor.
For example in the third quarter we recognized $6 million in warrant income from the exercise of warrants related to some technology and life sciences relationships which was not repeated in the fourth quarter.
Finally noncustomer driven income was impacted by $6 million increase in deferred compensation plan asset returns which was completely offset in deferred compensation expense.
Turning to Slide 14.
We continue to focus on tight expense control.
As you can see full year expenses declined 4% including a $35 million reduction in restructuring expenses which accounted for about half of the decline.
Our fourth quarter expenses were impacted by a $6 million increase in deferred compensation which is directly offset in non-interest income.
Excluding that our expenses increased $6 million in the quarter which includes a $3 million increase in staff insurance expense from a low third quarter level and a $5 million increase in litigation related expenses following a legal reserve release in the third quarter due to the favorable preliminary settlement of a Class action case.
Also incentive compensation did not decline from the elevated third quarter level based on more favorable performance relative to peers.
Moving to Slide 15 and shareholder payout.
We repurchased 1.7 million shares in the fourth quarter and 7.4 million shares in the full year under our share repurchase program.
Combined with the dividends paid we returned 73% of net income to our shareholders in 2013.
We believe our shareholder payout is a reflection of our strong capital position with a tangible common equity ratio of 10.1% and an estimated Basel III Tier 1 common capital ratio of 10.3% at December 31 on a fully phased-in basis excluding the impact of AOCI.
The tangible common equity ratio increased 24 basis points in the fourth quarter reflecting an increase in AOCI due to favorable pension plan adjustments partially offset by the decline in the fair value of the securities book.
As a reminder adjustments to the pension plan are made annually while the securities book is marked each quarter.
As Ralph mentioned we submitted our capital plan and stress test to our regulators earlier this month.
We expect the Federal Reserve will release its summary results in March.
Finally turning to Slide 16 and our outlook for the full-year 2014 compared to 2013.
We expect our overall loan growth to continue at a pace similar to 2013.
We plan to remain focused on small business and middle market particularly where we benefit from our industry expertise such as in technology and life science.
Positive trends in commercial real estate construction are expected to improve while owner occupied real estate should continue to be impacted by amortization.
As you know our mortgage banker business can be volatile and does have some typical seasonality aligned with home sales.
So there could be quarterly variability though we expect mortgage banker average balances for the full year to stabilize close the level we had in the fourth quarter.
In addition the current slow economic environment does weigh [ph] on demand and competition for loans across our businesses.
And we intend to maintain our pricing and structure discipline.
We expect net interest income to be modestly lower year-over-year primarily reflecting the continued reduction in accretion which totaled $49 million in 2013 and is expected to decline to $10 million to $20 million in 2014.
In addition we expect loan yields will continue to be impacted by the low rate environment but should be partly offset by loan growth as well as our low cost funding base.
With respect to credit we expect our total provision expense will be similar to 2013 reflecting loan growth offset by a continued decline in problem loans.
We expect net charge-offs and reserve release to remain low.
We expect non-interest income to be stable with customer-driven fees increasing modestly from continued growth in fiduciary and card fees and our focus on cross-sell opportunities.
We expect non-interest expenses to be lower.
Pension expense should be less than half of the $86 million incurred in 2013 primarily as a result of the timing of the improvement in market performance and increase in long-term rates.
And increases in merit healthcare and regulatory compliance expenses should be mostly offset by our continued tight expense control.
Remember that our incentive compensation is typically higher in the first quarter when grants are made.
And in 2014 as a result of anticipated plan changes we expect to incur even more of the expense in the first quarter while the full-year expense is expected to remain about the same.
Finally we estimate our tax rate will be approximately 28% of pretax income.
In closing we are pleased with our continued loan and deposit growth.
Despite the recurrent economic and low interest rate headwinds we will remain focused on the things we can control.
Deepening and growing customer relationship while carefully managing expenses.
We look forward to the year ahead and we remain keenly focused on delivering growth in both pre-provision net revenue and the bottom line.
Now we are happy to answer your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Just a couple of quick ones for you.
Just as I look at the loan growth guidance and try to reconcile that with your strong and building pipelines and a lot of the opportunities you have within your various markets.
Just kind of it seems a little bit conservative and I was just wondering if we do have a bit of a stronger economy next year what might the sensitivity around that loan growth potential be? Lars? Absolutely.
Yeah.
One thing I ought to remind you is that the fourth quarter period-ending balances do tend to Steve be elevated as we see extraordinary activity levels at that point.
But I think Karen has given a good outlook for the year where we see consistent loan growth throughout 2014.
I think we are very well positioned.
Our mortgage banking finance business we expected as she noted to be relatively stable.
I would note that we are positively gap [ph] to recovering single-family residential market in the country.
70% of our volumes in mortgage banking finance are purchase versus the industry average of 47%.
Dealer looks like is going to be strengthening but as you know that has variation.
But we did see fortunately of the $1.3 billion over $600 million of that was really spread across nearly all of our businesses.
I think the general business activity and the climate next year is really going to dictate a lot of what we see in terms of the actual outcome in growth in the loan growth portfolio.
And I would just add Steve that this outlook was again against the backdrop of what we expect to be a continuing slow economy low rate environment and very competitive environment.
Got you.
No that makes sense.
Just seems like you're building up a lot of great momentum and it seems like get a little bit more help from the economy and that could be even better.
And so just on that topic still as you look forward where do you see the best kind of risk-reward to grow loans as you look ahead? Lars? Yeah.
So we are going to be very focused on our small business and middle market businesses.
We see nice returns in those businesses.
We have seen a pickup in traction in small business.
We are actually seeing some growth in the last couple of quarters in small business where we get good returns nice deep relationships.
Across our middle market businesses whether it's technology and life sciences or energy business if we begin to see a pickup in CapEx there in that industry it represents a nice opportunity.
As well as environmental services entertainment there is a number of others including general middle market.
General middle market will be clearly impacted significantly I think by business activity levels.
We are -- if you look at utilization rates in general middle market a climb there as there as their balance sheets hopefully grow with a strengthening economy.
Could certainly put upward pressure on our loan balances.
And then lastly I would mention that we are beginning to see some growth in our private banking wealth management area as the collaboration between our commercial relationships and the principles dealers is really starting to get traction and helping us to drive our portfolio.
Perfect.
I think as Lars mentioned and you had mentioned earlier if the economy picks up it will be a positive for all of our lines of business across all of our markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
If you could just spend a minute on the LCR.
So you guys had showed at a conference recently that you were in very good shape on the LCR mentioned.
You mentioned today that you are changing the mix adding more Ginnie Mae's.
Did you think about your asset sensitivity as you change that mix? Does that make you rethink what your sensitivity going forward versus what it was in the past? Just curious how you think about that.
Karen? Sure.
Yes we did we share at the Goldman Sachs conference in December that as of the end of the third quarter we believe that under the proposed liquidity coverage ratio that we would be in compliance.
And we have been adding Ginnie Mae security.
And from an asset sensitivity perspective as you know hopefully 85% of our loans are floating rate and so we are asset sensitive today.
The changes that we have made to the securities portfolio do not change that asset sensitivity much if at all.
Okay.
And then just on the you mentioned the pension expense savings for 2014.
I guess the question is does all of that go right to the bottom line or is there anything anyplace it gets eaten up? And then number two what's your view for expenses outside of the pension savings? Yes we did say for our outlook for 2014 that we expect our pension expense to be less than half of the $86 million that it was in 2013.
On top of that pension expense we do expect increased expenses from merit healthcare regulatory compliance type expenses.
But we are very focused on continued expense discipline to partly offset that other increase.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
I just wanted to follow up on the loan growth you saw this quarter.
When you look at the C&amp;I I think it's up around 13% annualized did you see any shift in customer attitude towards expansion investment? Or Lars is this really just a seasonal bounce even though you are saying commitments are up line utilization is up pipeline is strong? Yeah absolutely.
I would not say that it is a seasonal shift you know.
Middle market banking tends to be a little bit more consistent less seasonal.
I would tell you that I was really pleased to see the levels of commitments increase which I think is a good forward indicator across a number of businesses and across our geographies.
But specifically for our middle market I think that is really going to be driven as we look [indiscernible] in the next year based upon business activity.
I think that’s going to have a significant impact on what kind of growth that we see in that area.
I would remind you that what we are seeing is a real receptivity to our relationship banking model across the markets that we are in.
And we are very fortunate that we have got California which on a year-over-year basis grew a total of 10% Texas year-over-year grew 5%.
I think we are well positioned in growth markets with the right businesses and the right people.
So Lars and to follow up I guess on Steve's question.
So the guidance implies around 1% growth in period-end loans if you are saying [ph] the average is up 3%.
Do you just not see momentum as sustainable maybe the competitive environment? Are you just being very conservative given that it's so early in the year right now? Well I would say that as Karen [indiscernible] out there it's against a continued uncertain economic environment.
And while we are hearing what I would say mildly more positive comments from our customers about 2014 which I think is very positive they continue to be very cautious about making investments.
They are still licking their wounds from coming through the financial crisis and they are being very reticent about making significant investments.
But they are very profitable they are delevering they are building their liquidity and you are seeing that in the transaction account balances that just continue to grow.
Including in middle market which was very strong and I think is a good indicator of the really deep relationships that we have with our good middle market customers.
So we are going to have to see how the year plays out from an economic perspective but I think we are very well positioned.
And Steven I would just reiterate that on a period-end basis we do typically see higher period-end balances each quarter particularly at year-end which do tend to come back down post year-end.
Okay.
Karen maybe just a final question for you.
Can you size for us the expected securities that you think you will be purchasing to get into compliance with the liquidity coverage rules? Sure.
As I said before based on our third quarter balance sheet what we disclosed at the Goldman Sachs conference is we believe if we look -- if we interpret the rule as drafted that we currently comply.
As the economy improves the interest rate environment improves we do expect deposits to decline we do expect continued loan growth.
And in that scenario we will need to be adding more high quality liquid assets for this new test.
The rule is far from final and we remain ever mindful of adding securities today in this continued low rate environment that will be marked as the rate environment increases.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Karen on slide 14 you made a comment and it seems the slide is talking about incentive compensation was high because of favorable performance relative to peers.
Can you just give us a little more clarity like what metrics are you guys looking at? Because I know loan growth has been a little bit soft but what metrics are you guys looking at that would suggest that you are performing better than peers? So our incentive compensation plans as disclosed in our proxy statements look at the relative performance on both three year and annual EPS growth and ROA -- ROE excuse me.
And if you look at that relative performance based on our peer group that’s how we calculate our incentive compensation expense.
Okay that helps.
And then just really quick what's the level of excess liquidity you guys have right now? We have at period-end about $5 billion in balances at the Fed.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Just a quick question on the mortgage banker finance portfolio.
It obviously held up a lot better than I expected last quarter and this quarter was down a little more talking average balances.
Is that just a function of sort of the timing with the way the averages shakeout? And then I know you guys said you expected to stay flat on average to this quarter is that primarily a function of the purchase percentage at 75% or are there other factors that sort of give you confidence there? Lars? Absolutely.
So if you actually compare the reduction in our mortgage banking portfolio for the fourth quarter you know it's pretty much in line with the MBA.
And frankly we had expected a decline in the fourth quarter.
So we feel good about that.
We are right on plan.
As we look out I think into next year I think a really important point here is to keep in mind that we are very positively gap [ph] to as I pointed out before the purchase market versus refi.
The industry overall has hit 47% we are at 70%.
And if you look at the 2014 projections by the MBA it was actually an expectation for 20% increase in purchase volumes for 2014 over annualized fourth quarter.
So for us that’s not an accident we strategically positioned ourselves with our customers to capture a higher level of purchase volumes and I think we are very well positioned.
One last thing I would leave there is I am really proud of our mortgage banking finance bankers.
They have developed very deep relationships with these customers.
We have banked them for a long time.
We have over 90% treasury management cross-sell primary depository relationships.
And I think even with some variation in the markets we are going to be well positioned.
But a lot of this has to do with the housing market variability as Karen point out.
Okay.
And then in that book did spreads tighten this quarter did they improve? I'm just curious sort of on the pricing front what you are seeing.
The spreads improved this quarter.
Credits [ph].
Yes.
So we continue to see downward pressure in the mortgage banking finance sector but it compares very favorably and we do have very high ROEs out of that business.
Okay.
I would add just one thing in closing I think from a market share overall perspective we are well positioned.
Again I have shared with you strategically how we have positioned our business.
And that’s really not a mistake.
You know we continue to add customers.
We have over the last two years three years.
And so frankly if you take a look at our overall business you would find that it's much more granular today than it was say three years ago.
So hopefully that gives you some more insight into the business.
No it's very helpful thank you.
If I could ask one last question.
I know you all highlighted the seasonality on 1Q comp expenses.
Could you just remind me how much of an uptick maybe you expect in the first quarter from the fourth on the comp line? Sure.
If we look at incentive compensation expenses these are disclosed in our [indiscernible].
The full year -- last year 2013 compensation expense was $37 million.
In the first quarter it was $10 million.
So we do expect as I said the full year next year to be about even but because of some plan changes the first quarter to be a little bit higher than what it was last year.
Your next question comes from John Pancari with Evercore.
Yes.
Hi this is Rahul Patil in for John.
I just want to go back to the expenses.
I know you mentioned you expect expenses to be lower in 2014 and it seems like the main driver is the pension expense.
Maybe you could give us some color around where else are you seeing expenses lower especially given the headcount was actually up this quarter the number of branches didn't change.
I just want to get a sense of where else are you seeing some reduction in expenses? Karen? We have a strong culture of continued expense management.
And that is something that we focus on each day.
As we look forward some of the things that we have been able to do are continuing to renegotiate our contracts with our vendors at better and more favorable pricing terms.
So for example late this past year we renegotiated our telecommunication contract which should provide substantial year-over-year savings.
In addition we have been consolidating our vendors.
So for example our IT contract labor we have consolidated the vendors from 16 to 2.
And as a result we should see both better quality and reduced expenses.
And then thirdly if you look at litigation expenses we have input we have put in place a new litigation billing management system which enables us to better track audit and collect reimbursable on our legal expenses.
So it's lots of little things like that that add up to continued and strong expense management.
Okay that's helpful.
And then are you still targeting a longer-term efficiency ratio of 60% or has that changed? Our long-term targets on both efficiency ratio and ROA have not changed.
Our efficiency ratio target is 60% and our ROA target is 1.3 times.
You have seen us move the needle in that direction over the last couple of years and we intend to continue to do so.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee &amp; Leach.
Wanted to ask Ralph does the guidance for loan growth this year does that make any assumption for the line utilization rate going forward kind of given the uptick you experienced in 4Q? Well I would say it's part of it.
It's overall.
You look at line usage you look at what's going to happen with the economy and what your expectations are.
And as Lars was saying earlier things are moving a little more positive but I don’t think as yet the uncertainty and the caution is still relatively high with our customer base.
Lars you want to add anything to that? Yeah I may just point something around here if we look at the 2014 forecast I know I am certainly not relying on the utilization rates could get us to where we need to be.
You know we are going to have to take action from a management perspective to make sure that we have the right resources and the right businesses.
We have built out even more enhanced accountability in the sales management system to make sure that we are out there winning more relationships.
And that’s really what's going to -- you know deepening relationships and winning more relationships is really what is going to have to be a significant contributor to our growth in '14.
And I would just add Brett that our 10-year historical loan utilization rate is about 47% exactly where we are today.
Right.
Okay great that's good color.
And the other thing I wanted to ask was just around energy.
And I know that's sort of what caused the decrease in Texas and those companies were obviously very profitable and liquid and that has caused some payoffs and what not.
Any thoughts on that line going forward and just energy in general in terms of growth opportunities? Yeah from a long-term perspective being the largest commercial bank headquartered in Texas obviously we are in a very strong position.
We strengthened ourselves in the Eastern market which is really critical.
That business has shown significant growth over the last few years.
If you look at the industry overall rig counts have really leveled out over the year and that’s primarily would drive CapEx in the industry.
In addition you have seen a number of our customers accessing the debt capital markets and that’s paying down senior debt.
But that’s cyclical.
I think we are well positioned.
We have got great customers and as they continue to reinvest in CapEx we are going to be well positioned to drive that forward.
To remind you that this is not a new business to Comerica.
We have been in it a very long time.
We have a time-tested robust credit underwriting policy.
It's relationship based and we are not changing our strategy around that.
So that can be a contributor certainly in the future for Comerica's growth.
And ladies and gentlemen we have reached the allotted time for questions.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ralph Babb.
I would just like to thank everybody for joining us today and hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call you may now disconnect.
My name is Carmon and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions).
I will now turn the call over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Persons you may go ahead.
Thank you Carmon.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; Vice Chairman of the Retail Bank and Wealth Management Curt Farmer and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our first quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional detail on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements and in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in this release issued today as well as slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within the presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported first quarter 2014 net income of $139 million or $0.73 per share compared to $117 million or $0.62 per share in the fourth quarter and $134 million or $0.70 per share in the first quarter of 2013.
Broad based loan growth together with solid credit quality and tight expense controls contributed to the 4% year-over-year increase in net income in the first quarter.
Turning to slide 4 and first quarter highlights.
Average total loans increased $458 million compared to a year ago including a $1 billion total increase in national dealer services technology and life sciences and general middle market offset by an $852 million decrease in mortgage banker finance.
Compared to the fourth quarter average and period-end loans were both up over $1 billion with good loan growth across our footprint and nearly all of our business lines including increases in general middle market commercial real-estate energy technology and life sciences and corporate banking.
Seasonal decline in loans we anticipated following the year-end run-up did occur in January; then starting in February the positive loan growth trend returned.
We attribute the quick turnaround to the improving economy and our continued focus on relations.
Average deposits increased $2.1 billion or 4% compared to a year-ago including a $1.7 billion increase in non-interest-bearing deposits.
Compared to the fourth quarter average deposits were stable while period-end deposits were up $458 million or 1%.
In further comparing our first quarter 2014 results to the fourth quarter of 2013 -- and further comparing our first quarter 2014 results to the fourth quarter of 2013 net interest income decreased $20 million to $410 million primarily due to a decline in accretion lower non-accrual interest collected and two fewer days in the quarter while the increase in loan balances and decrease in deposit costs offset the continued decline in loan yields.
Credit quality remained strong with the provision for credit losses and net charge offs at low levels consistent with the last few quarters.
Non-interest income decreased $11 million to $208 million due to decreases of $6 million in customer-driven fee income primarily due to lower syndication fees and $5 million in non-customer driven fee income.
Non-interest expenses decreased $67 million reflecting a $49 million decrease in litigation-related expenses following an unfavorable jury verdict that impacted the fourth quarter.
Also salaries and benefits expense decreased $11 million primarily due to reduced pension expenses.
In addition we were able to drive small decreases in a number of other expense categories.
Our capital position remains a source of strength to support our growth while continuing to provide us the ability to returning excess capital to shareholders.
We completed the 2013 capital plan in the first quarter with the repurchase of 1.5 million shares under our share repurchase program.
Together with dividends we returned 77% of first quarter 2014 net income to shareholders.
Last month we announced the results of our company run stress test and that the Federal Reserve did not object to our 2014 capital plan.
Our capital plan includes up to $236 million in share repurchases for the four-quarter period that ends in the first quarter of 2015.
The plan which was approved by our Board of Directors further contemplates a $0.01 increase in Comerica’s quarterly dividend to $0.20 per common share a 5% increase over the current dividend rate.
The dividend proposal will be considered by our Board at its regularly scheduled meeting next week.
Turning to slide 5 and a look at our primary markets Dallas Morning News reported last month that Texas leads the nation in job growth adding more than 322 000 jobs in the 12-month period that ended this past January according to the U.S.
bureau of labor statistics.
Also middle market companies in Texas are growing faster than anywhere else in the country according to the National Center for the middle market and we are growing right along with the lone star state.
In March we announced that we were adding a new middle market banking team here in North Texas.
In addition we are adding other bankers in all of our Texas markets.
Texas posted the largest increase in average loans of our three primary markets with average loans up almost $600 million or 6% over the fourth quarter.
All business lines posted increases and were led by energy general middle market corporate banking technology and life sciences and commercial real estate.
Also Texas deposits in the first quarter were up $339 million or 3%.
We continue to capitalize on opportunities in California.
Similar to Texas we recently increased staffing in our Northern California middle market banking team to help meet the increasing demand.
In addition we have expertise in growing sectors in the state such as technology and life sciences National Dealer Services and entertainment.
Average loans in California in the first quarter were up almost $400 million or 3% with growth in technology and life sciences commercial real estate and general middle market.
Average deposits in California declined 3% while period-end deposits grew 5% from the prior quarter.
The primary reason for the variability between period-end and average deposits was due to customer balances in U.S.
banking as well as the financial services division which serves title and escrow businesses.
We are a leading bank in Michigan where we have strong relationships with businesses and families many spanning decades.
We strengthened our number two deposit market share in the state based on the most recent FDIC data and as a result continue to be well-positioned with great brand recognition.
Average loans in Michigan increased $149 million relative to the fourth quarter with growth in National Dealer general middle market and private banking.
Average deposits also increased with corporate banking being the largest contributor.
Our relationship banking strategy is serving us well as we continue to focus on growing the bottom line in this low rate environment.
We are allocating resources to our faster growing markets and industries where we have expertise which should contribute to our long-term growth.
Recent recognition validates that we are making a positive difference.
In February we received 16 Greenwich Excellence Awards for middle market banking as well as 7 Greenwich awards for small-business banking.
Comerica received more awards than any other bank.
In addition we were recently named Best Regional Bank in the Southwest by Global Finance magazine.
Details can be found in the earnings deck appendix.
Our balance sheet continues to be well-positioned when rates begin to rise.
In the meantime we continue to demonstrate that we can carefully manage expenses and maintain strong credit quality and a conservative approach to capital.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to slide 6; we saw broad-based loan growth in the first quarter.
Total average loans quarter-over-quarter increased $1 billion or 2% and on a period-end basis loans also increased $1 billion or 2% to $46.5 billion.
We had growth on almost every loan type as average commercial loans increased $679 million and construction loans increased $175 million.
Also average commercial mortgages increased $56 million the first increase we have seen since the acquisition of Sterling.
As mortgages to developers post construction increased and owner occupied real estate which makes up about 80% of our commercial mortgages declined at a slower pace with normal amortization.
In total average outstanding increased in nearly every business line led by increases in general middle markets of 283 million commercial real estate of 246 million and energy of 230 million; partly offset by $223 million decline in mortgage banker in line with current trends in the mortgage industry.
Our average loan growth of 2% outpaced the industry which grew 1% based on the Fed's H8 data for U.S.
large commercial banks from January 1<sup>st</sup> to April 2.
Also our commitments grew 416 million to 53.2 billion driven by increases in commercial real estate energy and technology and life sciences.
Line utilization was 48.3% up from 47.1% at the end of the fourth quarter.
Importantly our loan pipeline increased with growth in nearly all business lines.
Finally loan yield shown in the yellow diamonds increased 19 basis points in the quarter of which 12 basis points can be attributed to the higher accretion and higher interest collected on non-accrual loans in the fourth quarter.
Much of the remaining decrease is due to amortization and pay offs of older higher yielding loans a mix change in customer usage credit improvement and a decline in LIBOR.
Turning to deposits on slide 7.
Our total average deposits were stable at 52.8 billion reflecting a $296 million decline in non-interest bearing deposits while interest bearing deposits increased 297 million.
As shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide deposit pricing declined to 15 basis points due to higher rate CDs maturing and selective deposit rate adjustment.
Period-end deposits increased 458 million to 53.8 billion primarily reflecting an increase of 378 million in interest-bearing deposits.
Slide 8 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of mortgage-backed securities.
The NBS portfolio averaged $8.9 billion for the quarter.
The fair value of this portfolio increased 87 million pretax in the first quarter resulting in a net unrealized loss position for the portfolio of 10 million.
The estimated duration of our portfolio declined slightly to four years at the end of the first quarter.
Slower prepayment speed including a retrospective adjustment to the premium amortization similar to the third and fourth quarters added 3 million or 12 basis points to the yield.
The expected duration under a 200 basis point rate shock declined slightly to about 4.6 years as a result of the composition of our portfolio.
Based on current rate expectation we believe that the pace of prepays will be about 350 million to 450 million in the second quarter similar to the first and fourth quarters.
In light of the fact that Fannie and Freddie backed securities are subject to a haircut and a cap under the proposed liquidity coverage ratio we have continued to reinvest the prepays in Ginnie Mae securities.
As far as the liquidity coverage ratio based on our preliminary analysis of the proposed role we expect to meet the proposed pays and threshold for 2015.
Turning to slide 9 which is summarized in the table on the right the moving pieces of our net interest income and net interest margin.
The biggest driver to the 20 million decrease in net interest income was a 11 million decline in accretion from an elevated fourth-quarter level of 23 million.
This reduced the net interest margin by 8 basis points.
Just to note the remaining accretion on the portfolio is about 28 million and we expect to realize this accretion at a declining pace over the next few years.
Accordingly for 2014 we expect to recognize accretion of about 20 million to 30 million which is slightly higher than the 10 million to 20 million range we provided last quarter as we continue to have better than anticipated performance on our credit impaired portfolio in the first quarter.
Two fewer days reduced net interest income by 7 million and lower interest collected on non-accrual loans had a 2 million or 1 basis point impact.
The benefit from the $ 1 billion in loan growth contributed 8 million and combined with lower funding cost which increase net interest income by 1 million completely offset the impact from lower loan yield.
Lower loan yields resulted from a decline in 30-day LIBOR as well as the continued amortization and pay off of higher yielding loans particularly commercial mortgages a mix change in customer usage and competitive pressures.
On a declining LIBOR you may recall that approximately 85% of our loans are floating rate of which 75% are LIBOR -based predominantly 30-day LIBOR.
Finally the decrease in excess liquidity which resulted from the loan growth had a 4 basis point positive impact on the margin.
As you have heard before we believe we remain well-positioned for a rise in short-term rates.
Based on our asset liability model using a dynamic balance sheet and assumptions based on historical experience we believe a 200-basis point increase in rate over a one year period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in approximately 200 million or a 12% increase in net interest income.
Turning to the credit picture on slide 10.
Credit quality continued to be strong in the first quarter.
Net charge-offs decreased to 12 million or 10 basis points of average loans and included 18 million in recovery.
Our criticized loans declined 121 million and our non-performing loans declined 36 million.
With the decline in non-performing loans allowance coverage of NTOs increased to 1.8 times and coverage of our trailing 12 months net charge-offs reached 10 times.
The continued cause of the trends in our credit metrics combined with loan growth resulted in a stable provision for credit losses and a small reserve release.
Slide 11 outlines non-interest income which included a 6 million decrease in customer fees and a 5 million decrease in non-customer related income.
The decrease in customer fees was primarily a result of a $7 million decrease in syndication agency which is a component of partial lending fee due to low activity in the first quarter following a robust fourth quarter.
We had smaller changes in several categories such as a decrease in customer derivative fee and increases in deposit service charges fiduciary and brokerage.
The decrease in non-customer driven income was primarily due to a $4 million decrease in deferred compensation plan asset return which was completely offset in non-interest expense.
I wanted to bring to your attention that we early adopted this quarter an amendment to GAAP related to the accounting for affordable housing projects that qualifies the low income housing tax credit.
Amortization of the initial investment cost which was previously recorded as a reduction to non-interest income is now reported in income taxes all prior periods have been adjusted to reflect this change.
Turning to slide 12 we continue to drive efficiency with tight expense control.
Non-interest expenses decreased 67 million.
This included a $49 million decrease in litigation related expenses due to an unfavorable jury verdict in a lender liability case that impacted the fourth quarter and is now under appeal.
Salaries and benefits expense decreased 11 million primarily reflecting a $13 million decrease in pension expense as well as lower deferred compensation expense.
This was partially offset by annual stock compensation expense two fewer days in the quarter and higher payroll taxes.
Taking into account all of the moving pieces our first quarter salaries and benefits expense is expected to approximate the run rate for the remainder of the year.
We also had small decreases in several other categories reflecting our continued focus on managing expenses.
Moving to slide 13 and shareholder payout as Ralph mentioned we completed our 2013 capital plan which included the repurchase of 6.9 million shares under our share repurchase program.
Combined with the 1.5 million shares repurchased in the first quarter with the dividends paid we returned 77% of first quarter net income to our shareholders.
Our 2014 capital plan includes share repurchases up to 236 million as well as the authority to fully redeem 150 million subordinated notes at par later this year.
These notes have a carrying value of 183 million at quarter end.
Due to the lack of certainty about the possible execution and timing of the call the impact of the call is not reflected in the outlook for 2014.
The average diluted share count increased in the first quarter mainly due to the impact of a higher share price on our warrants and employee option.
Vesting of annual employee stock grants also impacted the share count slightly.
Our capital position remained strong with a tangible common equity ratio of 10.2% and an estimated Basel III Tier 1 common capital ratio of 10.3% at March 31st on a fully facing basis excluding the impact of AOCI.
Finally turning to slide 14 and our expectations for full year 2014 compared to full year 2013 our outlook for loan growth net interest income and provision remain unchanged from what we provided at January.
We are revising slightly our outlook for non-interest income and taxes.
As a reminder we expect our overall loan growth to continue at a pace similar to 2013.
Average loans in 2013 were 44.4 billion and grew about 3% over 2012.
Keep in mind that we expect mortgage bankers to be significantly lower than its 2013 average.
And national dealer and mortgage banker can be variable and typically have seasonality.
Also there is stiff competition for loans across all of our businesses and we fully intend to maintain our loan pricing and credit discipline.
We expect our net interest income to be modestly lower as a result of lower accretion and continued pressure from the low rate environment.
Given that we are in the benign part of credit cycle we expect the provision to remain stable with last year.
As far as non-interest income we expect it to be modestly lower with stable customer driven fees and lower non-customer driven income.
Lower capital market related fees such as syndication and derivatives are expected to offset growth and fiduciary and card fee.
We continue to expect non-customer income to be lower you may recall in the third quarter last year we reported unusually high warrant income from the exercise of warrants related to some technology and life sciences relationship.
Non-customer driven income is difficult to predict because it includes items like warrant income.
We expect lower non-interest expenses with lower litigation related expenses and a reduction in pension expense from 86 million to approximately 35 to 40 million.
In addition we expect to continue to offset increases from annual merit and regulatory cost with tight expense control.
The outlook for our effective tax rate has been updated to 32% to reflective the change in accounting for projects that qualifies for low income housing tax credits as I previous mentioned.
Finally our share account should reflect both the execution of our capital plan as well as the dilution impact from our warrants and employee auctions previously mentioned.
Our rule of thumb is that for every $1 increase in average stock price for the quarter warrants and auction dilution is about 250 000 shares.
In closing the year is off to a good start and we are pleased with the loan growth and expense control we had in the first quarter.
With a persistent economic and low interest rate headwind it is imperative that we continue to focus on the things we can control deepening and expanding customer relationships while carefully managing expenses.
We believe our effort can assist us in delivering growth in both pre-provision net revenue and the bottom line.
Now we would like to open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
How are you? Could you just spend a minute on slide 26 on the shared national credit growth it looks like a pretty big pickup first quarter.
What drove the pickup there and could you just give us your philosophy on SNC portfolio there? Okay.
Lars? Sure.
Hey Keith.
First a couple of points I would like to make.
First of all the underwriting of our share national credit portfolio is consistent with our disciplined credit underwriting and credit standards relationship pricing standards for the rest of the portfolio.
Secondly if you were internally to look at that portfolio you would find that the profitability and asset quality metrics of the portfolio would be very similar due to our overall portfolio but as you pointed out on page 26 you can also see that 65% of the SNC portfolio really is in middle market businesses which are typically smaller what I would say large club syndicated credits where we have strong relationships with those customers it’s consistent with our relationship model.
So of the 693 increase half of that was energy which frankly those are large syndicated credits as you know and we control our single client exposure certainly leveraging syndicated credit market and it is a growth business for us.
Middle Market business also helped drive that which we’ve seen commitments continue to rise and we’ve been really focused over the past year.
And really the balance of it would be U.S.
banking which tends to have variability in the usage levels.
So I think that the key take away is that we treat SNCs the same as we do any other relationship in the bank and hold them to the same relationship banking standards and pricing as any other relationship.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then just on the loan growth guidance obviously you had very strong loan growth this quarter it was pretty broad.
When you think about the pipeline at the end of the quarter could you just give us an update on where that stood and why would you stick with the 3% given the strength in the first quarter? Thanks.
Our pipeline grew at the end of the quarter and remains robust.
When we think about our loan growth outlook keep in mind that it is a full-year average to full-year average outlook.
And our full year average loans in 2013 were $44.4 billion.
We also have mortgage banker finance which we expect to be down year-over-year on average.
The full year '13 average was $1.6 billion and we’ve said that we expect that to stabilize at the fourth quarter 2013 levels which is about 1.1 billion.
We also have our dealer portfolio that while it has increase slightly in the first quarter we do expect normal seasonality in that portfolio to impact our full year average.
And on owner occupied mortgage loans we do expect those to continue to be impacted by amortization.
So beyond those we do expect continued growth in other areas and we also fully expect to maintain our discipline in this competitive environment.
I may just tag on and maybe do a part of your question and that is kind of the nature of that pipeline growth.
It continues to be very broad it's across all of our businesses and frankly if you look at the individual components they would be very complementary of really what our focus is as a company the lines of business that we want to grow the ones that have the highest returns and fit with our relationship banking strategy.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Lars I wanted to follow up on your response of the question on the SNCs; so if you look at the 700 million increase how much of that was for participations and credits where you guys were not the lead bank? I can’t give you an exact number for the quarter at this point.
We don’t have that but if you are go ahead and look at that chart on again page 26 you'd see that 15% are agented by Comerica today.
But again if you look at that 65% of the overall SNC portfolio you know those really are typically smaller syndicated credits where we have deep relationships with the management teams.
We are not just in there providing credit solutions it’s really about my trusted advisor kind of approach to the customers it’s the relationship banking model and it’s not just about the credit.
It’s about really bringing to them all of Comerica and all of our financial solutions.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit more kind of look at it but I can’t specifically give you the number for that quarter.
So Lars should we think about that big jump this quarter as being a function of just increased demand from larger borrowers or do you guys just have more of an appetite for those types of credits here? Well just keep in mind that half of that number was energy and energy by definition almost is a syndicated credit market.
These are very large credit facilities where we want to make sure that we’re controlling from a conservative credit perspective.
You know our exposures to single customers but I'd also just reinforce that these are customers that are in footprint.
These are customers that you know we’re the largest commercial bank headquartered in the State of Texas we’ve got a leverage position here I think in Texas to be a leader in this industry and it’s really of footprint strategy.
Maybe just one for Karen how many employees do you have in the BSA/AML compliance group and how much is that have roughly cost to you now per year? Steve; happy to follow up on that I don’t have an exact breakdown of the number of employees in dollar cost but we have maintained a very robust department in that area for a very long time.
Okay thanks for the color.
Your next question is from the line of Steve Scinicariello with UBS.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First I am just kind of curious Lars maybe where you see kind of the most attractive risk reward across the loan portfolio you know as we sit here today? Yes we’re very fortunate.
First of all you know we've got great growth markets that complement the businesses that we're in and that’s I think one of the strengths of our franchises that we do have diversity of businesses.
If you look at the state of California and you look at the diversity of the businesses there that we can grow versus Texas.
For example we’re in a very attractive position.
But you know I mean we are a middle market bank and while we do have some specialty areas technology and life sciences energy commercial real estate entertainment you know mortgage banking finances these are all businesses they have typically a very attractive returns for us.
But it’s not just about the credit.
It’s really about the whole relationship.
And as we look at each customer we're using a very disciplined relationship pricing approach that really encapsulates all of the financial solutions that we bring to our customers.
<br>It makes sense and then just specifically on commercial real estate looks like that seems to be hitting an inflection point here as -- do you think that’s the case and is there an opportunity to maybe helping hands the book going forward in terms of yield and if that continues to grow? Well I think I heard you mention the term yield is that correct? Sure.
Yes in your question.
So I would be honestly here that we are getting pressure in the commercial real estate portfolio there is no question about it.
You have got a lot more banks out there chasing opportunities but we are not giving in terms of our commitment to ensuring that we get the right kinds of returns from these long-term developers that we work with for a long period of time.
But I would tell you this we have been sharing with you over the last few years that we have had a lot of construction lending volume closures commitments and a lot of equity that has gone in first and we have expected that at some point we begin to see draws on those and a number of those move over to mini firms.
And frankly that’s the key driver that we're seeing today in our portfolio.
We did see relatively less activity of our larger developers going to the permanent market which also I think benefited us in the first quarter.
Whether or not it’s a permanent turn I really can’t tell you but we are really pleased to see with these long-term customers their continued strength success and we're proud to work with them as I think the real estate market continues to strengthen.
Sounds good sounds good.
And then just one quick one for Karen just on the expense side obviously great performance this quarter just kind of curious maybe some future opportunities whether it’s regulatory cost or more vendor consolidation types opportunities maybe going forward on the expense side?  We are always looking for continued efficiency on our whole equation particularly on the expense side.
And as we look for that continued efficiency some of the things that we have been doing are things that we will continue to do things like consolidating our vendors and renegotiating contracts with our vendors everywhere that we can to get better performance and better terms.
And so we will continue to do that.
Your next question is from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask the loan growth question a little bit different way I know you said the 3% growth is off your base of about 44-4 last year and it looks to me as if the end of period balances this quarter are already 4.5% above that.
So does that imply that through the course of the year you actually see a little bit of contraction from where we stand today?  Bob I mentioned that we do see contraction in certain portfolios like mortgage banker finance where the average of the full year last year was 1.6 and we do expect that to be down to about the stable level that we had in the fourth quarter which was about 1.1.
So we expect full year average contraction there and on our dealer portfolio we do typically see seasonality a little bit in the second quarter a little bit more in the third quarter.
And we expect to see that seasonality where inventory supply on lots comes down and therefore our outstanding floor plan financings come down.
And then we do expect some continued contraction on our occupied real estate mortgages as amortization from our existing portfolio continues.
Okay.
And I know in your introductory comments you all said January started a little slow and then built but I am not sure I got the full commentary.
Could you just give a little bit of color on sort of how through the course of the first quarter you also saw loan demand progress?  Sure we typically see year-end balance as period end balances at year-end run up for us and then we typically see contraction just following the year-end and that’s exactly what we saw in January.
So we saw loan growth pick up starting in February post the contraction in January that we deem typical.
And so is it just typical seasonality though nothing more or less this quarter?  Yes we view it as typical.
Your next question is from the line of Craig Siegenthaler with Credit Suisse.
First just a start on the C&amp;I portfolio just watching the yield come down here.
Can you provide a little perspective on how pricing structure in terms today compare to 2007 year key markets? Sure Craig when compared to 2007 in our markets I just want to make sure that I got the right timeframe.
Okay.
Okay Craig I am taking that as a yes.
Okay yes so if you go back to the pre-crisis period I think you would see actually spreads a little bit thinner at that point.
We are in a better position than we were there however over I would say the past year or so we continue to see really tightening of spreads and yields as more competitors have gotten active in the marketplace.
And we're obviously staying very focused on our disciplined relationship pricing model and I think that that’s going to serve us well.
Craig I would also mention that our C&amp;I yield did decline nine basis points in the quarter but half of that was related to a greater interest on non-accrual loans in the fourth quarter.
Thanks Karen.
In one point there what was the average C&amp;I yields in the new business generated in the first quarter and also the average spread there too.
Very difficult to give you averages for our whole portfolio because it is so very diverse and so very credit dependent and so very difficult to give averages.
Yes what I would tell you is that largely our loan spreads have been holding.
I mean we have been very disciplined it’s not easy I mean we’re having to know have our bankers out in the marketplace more than ever making more calls really focused on our relationship banking strategy and bringing a different value proposition to our customers.
And credit is moving out as well.
Yeah absolutely.
Can we assume it’s close to the tier group average in the low 2s and if yes should we expect significant more down side in the C&amp;I portfolio yield over the next couple of years?  We do expect that our loan yields going forward will be impacted by the things that we've been impacted already and that would be a decline in higher yield and fixed rate loans particularly mortgages as well as a continued mix shift that can impact the portfolio of mix shift in utilization a decline in LIBOR LIBOR declined this past quarter in the first quarter but yet it’s lower today than where it ended in the quarter.
So there are lots of things that we expect to continue to impact our loan yields.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
I guess first question just about the LCR I think Karen mentioned if I heard right that you would be complying with LCR what you think are the guidelines by 2015.
But could you just be a little clear on that in terms of when do you expect to be as fully complying as you need to be and what is the impact that that could have on margin from here? So on the LCR as you know the rules are proposed right now and not yet final.
And we obviously expect to be fully compliant with all of the phase-in requirements and the fully phased in requirement in 2017.
As loans increase and the interest rate environment continues to improve we do expect to see deposit decline and both on the loan and the deposit side of the equation can have an impact on our excess liquidity.
Our excess liquidity right now does count as high quality liquid assets.
So in that improving environment we will need to be adding high quality liquid assets to meet the proposed LCR requirement.
The impact that that can have on -- that can have an impact on the net interest rate margin but we believe that it is relatively neutral to net interest income and that is the key income statement line on that we focus on much more than the net interest margin.
No of course I just wasn’t sure if there was going to be any meaningful changes but it sounds like you’re just letting sort of the portfolio take its natural course and you'll end up with a better coverage ratio rather than taking any specific more immediate actions.
Is that fair? That is fair.
We remain ever mindful of the fact that our securities portfolio and a rising rate environment will be mark to market and that mark to market impact is the numerator in the LCR equation.
And so we keep that in mind as we think about ensuring compliance.
Got it.
Okay then really quick question on the purchase accounting adjustments for the accretion.
I think you said you had 28 now you expect 28 to 30 this year so presumably that implies better credit or some restatement or some additions to the accretion.
When you think about next year in 2015 is this for the most part largely gone or what kind of I guess amounts would you envision in 2015 for the accretion? Year-over-year we expect a decline in accretion last year we had 46 million in accretion and this year we expect 20 million to 30 million we had 12 million of that in the first quarter.
The remainder accretion that we have available we did say is 28 million and we do expect that to continue to decline each quarter.
It may linger in small amounts into 2015 but we expect a continued decline and ultimately to be end material.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Hey just wanted to ask about the complexion of CDs in the balance sheet.
Have you guys thought about with rates being as low as they are and potentially higher rates on the horizon beginning to lock in some CDs and where would you expect that portfolio to normalize out as a percentage of the total mix? So currently our MMDAs and DDAs are more than 80% of our total deposit balances our savings as DDs are then less than 20%.
On the CDs in particular we recognize that we have an ability to increase deposits when needed with our client base through things like CD and pricings.
It is not something that we deem we need now particularly when you look at our balance sheet and the excess liquidity that we have.
Your next question is from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning guys.
I think most of my questions have been answered at this point but Karen may be just a quick one from you on the fee guidance.
You gave a lot of good color on what would cause the year-over-year change i.e.
warrants that were elevated last year.
But was there anything specific that had changed from the outlook that you provided with the fourth quarter that cause it to be lower versus stable previous -- lower versus stable previously? Yes I would say that the key change in the outlook again is on our customer driven side and we saw softness this quarter in our capital markets related fees particularly syndicated loan credits and customer derivative.
And it is that softness that caused us to slightly change our outlook.
Your next question is from the line of Dave Rochester with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning guys.
On your comment on comp expense this quarter being a descent run rate going forward I was just wondering if that could also possibly apply to total expense levels as well versus that 1Q level just given the consolidation of vendors and other steps you’ve been talking about or should we expect to see that line grow this year? So in total expense there are expenses that can be variable in the back half of the year things like occupancy expenses things like consulting type expenses.
So I wouldn’t necessarily completely approximate a run rate but recognize that we are very focused on tight expense control and do intend to work very hard to maintain our expenses at a descent level.
And just on that comp line itself I know you’ve got some seasonal expenses in there and you’re talking about that being a descent run rate but you’ve also talked about hiring.
And so I was just wondering if there are any other areas where you could trim up to sort of offset that hiring this year? We are very focused as we talked about before on every place where we do have expense increases or headcount increases and trying to figure out ways to self-fund the dollar amount of that increase.
And that is a discipline that we maintain continually.
And so we have had to add headcount in certain areas like compliance and regulatory.
We also have added headcount on our front line to make sure that we were meeting increasing customer needs and demands but we are very focused on trying to offset that with other expense control.
Your next question is from the line of Jon Arfstrom with RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just a question back on the syndicated credits obviously people are getting a little bit more concerned about that and you had a few questions early in the call but maybe not necessarily what you’re putting on your books Lars or Ralph are you seeing anything in that market that makes you a bit more nervous or any trends that are worth watching on the negative side? No really don’t.
In fact as I mentioned before Jon as we study that portfolio the asset quality the returns of that portfolio really are very similar to the overall company’s loan portfolio.
We’re obviously going to watch the level as we do with our concentrations across any lines of business anything we do but no we’re very comfortable it’s relationship based and is very consistent with our strategy.
How about anything in the… Why don't you comment on credits?  Sure.
I’d be glad to.
In the SNC portfolio we see it over the long term mirror our overall credit results but in the short term it’s actually performing much better than our basic credit metrics.
There are things that we’re seeing in the marketplace that do kind of make your hair stand up from time to time we don’t get into those kinds of credits and we’re going to maintain that kind of discipline.
Yes if I could just clarify one thing that we do not have a syndicated credit trading desk we’re not out there buying and selling syndicated credits.
These are all relationship based.
Okay that helps.
Because obviously everybody has a concern when they see that kind of growth and I think we understand your approach to it as well but we hear the anecdotal stories about the industry and some of the broader things that are happening so that helps.
Yes we remain very focused on building relationships with those credits.
Okay great.
Any theme in the construction growth you guys have had quite a few quarters in a row of descent growth.
Is there any theme there that’s new or different? No there really isn't.
It’s -- we’re executing our same strategy we haven’t changed.
Its urban market it's in footprint oriented its in-fill closed in suburban the majority of its multi-family and frankly we're just beginning to see I think some of the benefits of a number of the projects that we finance with some of our very long-term well hailed developers.
So we are hopeful that will continue to run.
Just here a couple more things.
Do you know off-hand what’s left in the non-accretable balance on sterling? Non-accretable loan balance? Yes.
Credit impaired.
Yes.
It’s not much I don’t have it off top of my head happy to follow-up but it’s not much.
Okay.
And then just to be clear on the tax change I think it’s obvious but same bottom line impact it’s just geography on the P&amp;L is that correct? Yes.
That’s correct.
The accounting change that we adopted is bottom line neutral.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First I wanted to just ask you about this year on the CCAR you got a nice approval but the total amount of the buyback was a little lower year-over-year.
And I think a little lower than the market might have anticipated.
I just wanted to ask you about just any thoughts in retrospect about this your CCAR process and generally speaking how you feel about what you put in for and how you are thinking about the eventual -- the future CCAR now that you have been through the first one? Thanks for the question Ken.
We are very pleased with the outcome of our CCAR plan process.
As you know that with our first year as CCAR bank and also the first year that the feds ran its own model on us and so we likely approach most things approached it from a position of conservatism.
When we think about our total payout to shareholders we like the fact that we are able to pay to shareholders meaningfully and we think that as a result of our very strong capital position and the fact that we have had good continued credit performance through the cycle.
Okay.
And the second question just bringing all those commentary and questions about balance sheet mix this quarter the average earning asset number was flat and you talked in your remarks about remixing some of those cash balances you’re moving things for LCR compliance you still have a low loan to deposit ratio and loans are starting to at least this quarter outgrow deposits.
So I am just wondering are we at the point where we should be looking for more earning assets stability from here and if I'm incorrect in saying that how do you think about just the overall progress of earning assets vis-à-vis loan growth as you look ahead? When we think about earning asset we do recognize under the new LCR requirement again in a better economy rising rate environment where we do expect continued loan growth and deposits to decline that we will need to be adding high quality liquid assets.
So I wouldn’t necessarily say that it is stable at this stage.
And I guess then Karen how would you think through or help us think through what that mean that you’ll think about starting to go for little bit more wholesale whether it's FHLB’s or issuing sub debt or rationalizing the capital structure just how should we think about that as deposits come off have kind of filling in from that or do you just continue to depend on more of a remixing? It is likely that we will fund our high quality liquid asset with wholesale funding.
Okay.
Which you really haven’t done so far because the securities book really hasn’t grown to date right? That’s correct.
And we are… Plus with the excess funding.
Correct.
Position.
Well also what I am trying to get at you still have the excess funding but then there’s the need to add so that would say to me more remixing but I just want to understand the different between remixing which keeps earning assets flat versus adding wholesale borrowings which would allowed it to grow.
Okay.
So I think it depends on the timeframe that we’re talking about here.
And in a short term environment where we have a lot of excess liquidity we would think much more about remixing in a long term environment as I talked about with the economy and interest rate environment changing and we would think more about wholesale funding obviously.
Your next question is from the line of Ryan Nash with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning.
Good morning guys just one big picture question you talked about a nice uptick in utilization this quarter growth was pretty broad based there there was an article in the paper this morning about expanding CapEx.
Are you actually starting to see signs of that and if so are we finally starting to see a shift towards expansionary CapEx from borrowers or is it still efficiency driven? Lars you want to take a shot at that? Yes absolutely right.
Let me just make a comment about the kind of sense we’re getting from our customers and that is they are mildly or modestly more optimistic but they are still cautious so I would say it’s too early really to call in terms of every turn of the corner in CapEx and the beginning of expansion there we clearly saw it we saw it in our general middle market an increase in utilization rates as well as and energy which was up in utilization technology and life sciences environmental services so we did see a pretty broad increase in utilization rates.
So again a little early to call whether or not we’ve turned the corner on CapEx but we’re very hopeful that would be very good for Comerica given where middle market kind of centered bank and you’ve seen commitments grow over a long period of time here at Comerica.
And just as one quick follow-up given the amount of commitment growth you’ve seen you’ve been able to grow line utilization.
If we were to see a big pickup in CapEx how high do you think utilization rates could go? Well if you look back historically we run around the element 50% rate over a long period of time we’ve seen variations but we’ve also seen from quarter to quarter I mean you could see a 200 basis point change but keep in mind that when we look at utilization rates that that’s a period in time that is not the average for the quarter.
We are right now at our historical average per utilization and we’ve reached as high as 53% in the height of the downturn but right now we’re at our historical average.
I think one of the things you’re seeing too is people are keeping more liquidity and more potential with their lines as well than you had in the past.
And I think that that Ralph your point that’s one of the reasons that we haven’t seen a draw down in liquidity that you typically would see is that a number of our customers are being more cautious protecting the liquidity positions.
And the result of that is you’ll see higher commitment levels and lower usage levels in total and I think that’s a trend.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
Just to beat the loan growth dead horse a little bit here excluding the mortgage warehouse and national dealer service seasonality that you mentioned Karen anything about the end of period link quarter loan growths that would not be sustainable or in terms of those balances where they stand as of the end of March.
Anything about that that would not be sustainable thanks.
I mentioned that on period end we typically do see a run up at the year end and we did see a run down in January and we typically will not as high do see a little bit of run up at the end of each quarter so that is why we focus on average balances instead of period end balances.
Okay and that typical run up which type of portfolios would that be in?   It’s honestly across most of our portfolios.
Often time you see what I would maybe define a little bit as window dressing as some customers really want to build cash on their balance sheet for the end of the quarter and that gets paid back and those would be middle market US banking and such.
Okay all right and then separately the -- I believe you indicated Karen that you don’t have all the detail around new loan production yields but you happen to have any of that granularity for the SNIC portfolio what the average yield is on that portfolio and then more specifically what the average yield is what you put on the quarter.
I don’t have the average yield of the SNIC portfolio in terms of the average yield of what we put on in the quarter we do know that our decline in loan yield was mainly due to the things that I talked about.
The fact that we did have fixed rate loan run-offs the fact that we did have credit improvement the fact that we did have a mix change in the utilization of our customer usage and so our new loans coming on board is not necessarily causing the deterioration in our loan yields.
Hopefully that’s helpful.
Yes that is and then lastly just sorry if I missed it in your commentary but the decline in the commercial lending fees on a linked quarter basis if you can just give us the detail on that.
Yes that was -- we saw a decline of 8 million in commercial lending this linked quarter 7 million of that was a decline in syndicated loans activity and that was because we have very robust syndication activity in the fourth quarter.
And that’s not unusual in fact if you go back to the first quarter of 2013 you’d see a similar type change from the fourth to the first as the activity levels that we did see in the syndicated fee income agency fee income that we did get in the fourth quarter of course we benefited from those balances in the first quarter of this year.
(Operator Instructions) And we do have a question from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Speaking of dead horses could you just remind us what your charge-off experience was in your SNIC portfolio in each of the last two credit cycles versus the rest of your commercial book? Erika over the long-term the SNIC portfolio performs at the same level as the portfolio overall.
I don’t have off the top of my head those numbers through the last two cycles.
But I can tell you that over the last five quarters our charge-off levels in the SNIC portfolio have been nominal.
Great and just one last question Karen you mentioned that if rates went a few hundred basis points you would see a 12% increase in NII and that sensitivity is on the dynamic balance sheet.
Could you just tell us what your deposit volume and rate assumptions are in that exercise and maybe where you think your loan to deposit ratio would trend in that scenario?  Sure.
As we talked about in the past that scenario is dependent on the assumptions that we put in.
And in those assumptions we do expect loans to decline we do expect deposits to -- that we do expect loans to increase I’m sorry we do expect deposits to decline.
We do expect a continued mix shift out of interest-bearing and out of non-interest-bearing into interest-bearing.
We have run sensitivity analysis on that scenario.
And that sensitivity analysis that we have done in the past and shared with you in the past is things like what if deposits declined more? What if loans grow faster? What if rates move up higher? And even with those sensitivity analysis that points to the fact that we are still very well positioned for rising rate environment.
So hopefully that’s helpful.
And on the deposit decline in particular we do have deposit declines and one of our sensitivity analysis did show more deposit declines that we shared last spring with you.
Okay and given the liquidity that you mentioned that’s embedded within your customer base is it possible that during this rate cycle we should be -- you know you surprised at the upside or downside in terms of deposit volume behavior relative to what Comerica has experienced in the past? Or is it just we are not going to be able to tell at this point? We are in a very anomalous environment right now.
And we recognize that history may not be the best barometer going forward particularly from this environment.
So that is why we look at the sensitivity analysis that we do look at.
Your next question is from the line of Matt Parnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning everybody just a quick question again on the commitments.
I guess in the bigger picture.
I would like to get a sense of how you all think about the pricing for your commitments perhaps going forward now that you are in the same bucket as the CCAR banks.
And I guess I’m just curious given some of the capital issues or capital buffers that they have to deal with some of those banks have said that commitment pricing could go up.
Is that an advantage for you particularly when you are focusing on middle market borrowers or has competition basically eroded that advantage?  Yes I mean we -- frankly first of all we have a really a disciplined process where we review every line of business every quarter or every product line on a regular basis given the changing regulatory environment.
And we're making the appropriate adjustments to ensure that we get the right kinds of returns out of each one of our lines of business on an overall basis.
So are we reacting? Absolutely.
Are we seeing the overall market react at this point? Not really.
But we are going to do the right things.
We are going to make the right adjustments to make sure that we get the right kinds of returns for our shareholders given the Basel III environment.
And then just a quick one for Karen.
Karen I saw that risk weighted assets were up about 2% quarter-over-quarter.
Was the driven largely by commitment growth or where there something else driving that? Yes that was driven by our loan growth and our commitment growth.
Your next question is from the line of Kevin St.
Pierre with Sanford &amp; Bernstein.
Just following up on the deposits in a higher rate environment in that 12% figure one of the things that I look at your deposit base versus other banks one thing that jumps out is the large percentage of deposits that are in accounts greater than $250 000 significantly higher than a lot of other banks who profess to be a lot less asset sensitive than your disclosures imply.
Just could you talk a bit about specifically those large deposit accounts and how you expect those to trade when rates rise and Karen I think it would be great if you would update those sensitivities sometime soon and I appreciate it was a year ago and I think we are all looking for a bit more on the rate sensitivity.
Okay happy to do that Kevin.
And on your question on the greater than 250 000 in deposit keep in mind that because we are mostly a commercial bank we do have large commercial deposits from some of our customers but as we focus on the full relationship with those customers much of those deposits are operating account deposits which are tied to the other services that we provide those customers.
So they tend to be very sticky and tend to be stable.
Okay.
So if we -- I know again it’s 10 years ago the last time short rates started to rise but if we look at the period during when short rates were rising your funding cost moved up significantly more quickly than your asset yields and I recognize there are there is a higher percentage of loans that are floating now and other factors but is that the main driver of why you think things will be different this time?  Hard for me to speak as much about history but I would say going forward we do recognize that we do have a pricing ability on our deposits as needed to make sure that we maintain those deposits and maintain our loan to deposit ratio within more of a self-funding guideline that we got currently.
Your next question is from the line of Brett Rabatin with Sterne Agee.
Hi good morning.
Just wanted to follow-up a little more on the sensitivity modeling and just go back to loan spreads and just want to make sure I understood what the analysis or what the assumption was if rates go up what happens to loan spreads and how you think about LIBOR versus your loan portfolio yield?  So as rates rise we are very hopeful that short term 30 day LIBOR rises with it.
As you know we are most exposed to that metric and that should help us significantly.
In terms of loan spreads difficult to predict because that is dependent on many factors the credit environment the competitive environment et cetera.
But we have in the past and intend to maintain our discipline around pricing credit very appropriately.
But specifically what’s the assumption in terms of loan spreads as rates move higher?  Now that’s something that we'll have to follow up on I don’t have that on the top of my head.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Sounded like the sesame straight pronunciation of our firm I have young kids so.
I know there has been a lot of questions on the Shared National Credit portfolio.
I was just looking at one of the things we had tracked was in the supplement you give the percent where your agent as well as the balances and it looked like if I have got the history right you went from 18% agent in 3Q to 16% agent in 4Q to 15% in 1Q.
And then if I multiply that through by the balances it looks like over the past six months the agent led balances actually came down a little bit and then the non-agent implied balances would have gone up about a 1 billion is that a fair way to think about it or is there anything that’s changed in the definition and just kind of any thoughts on why the agent would be going down but the non-agent going up? I would say the largest driver there would be the energy portfolio I mean we don’t typically agent the E&amp;P portfolio.
Those are very large credit facilities.
These energy companies have very large CapEx needs and so as you see that portfolio continue to grow that would certainly have some dilution on it but we haven’t changed our strategy around relationships.
And each one of these again if you look at page 26 whether it’s entertainment or energy or technology and life sciences general middle market this is all about relationships.
So no change in strategy but I would say energy would be the biggest kind of diluter of that lead percentage.
Got it.
And then just on preferreds I mean you are in a good position of having a ton of capital it seems like there is maybe mix messages on everyone just need preferreds to be a 0.5 of their RWAs regardless of common equity or to the excess common equity does that kind of count against the preferred bucket or the tier 1 bucket which I really want to think about it.
I mean have you gotten feedback or do you think eventually you will need preferreds as part of the capital structure or do you think as long as you’re up here with these kind of monster common equity ratios preferreds just for in a separate world and don’t matter? Yes the stress test that we’ve just gone through we’ve shown that we do have adequate levels of capital to withstand various severe stress scenarios.
That said the Basel III capital rule do fairly well dedicate the types of capital that are included in each of the different metrics and stacks.
So at some point it could make sense for us to have preferred in our capital structure.
But clearly we believe we need a good use of proceeds to be able to introduce it.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Good morning with CLSA.
Just a follow up deposits in the higher rate environment seems no question that you had benefit from higher interest rates and I’m just curious that 200 basis point higher interest rates that improves and 200 million if I heard that correctly.
What change do you expect in CDs to go from what percentage today to what percentage in the future under that scenario? That again is something that we can follow up on with detail like that and some of the other questions that we’ve had Mike.
I would say in general we do expect deposits to decline in that scenario and most of that decline we would expect to be in non-interest bearing and so that we do expect interest bearing to increase.
As far as the amount of CDs increase a little bit but not significantly.
Because the CDs are so far below the historical for you guys in the industry that you just think behavior has changed or rates going up 200 basis points won’t be the trigger for a whole lot more CDs? Well we do recognize that we have the ability with our existing customer base to be garnering in a rising rate environment more savings deposits from them and we will be doing that as we need to.
And another follow up on the SNICs if I’m calculating this correctly they look to be at 22% of loans which I have to imagine is one of the highest levels for Comerica and if you go back in time in the 80s Comerica pull back and your 90s and then especially after the Enron [indiscernible] the early part of last decade you guys lowered your SNICs from then it was 20% down to 15% and today I think it’s 22%.
So is there any constraint for SNICs as a percentage of total loans? Yes I mean we do not share what our limitations are within the company but I had to tell you that we are very comfortable with where we are.
If you go back to the first quarter 2010 where we’re 20% we’re at 22% today we’ve had nice growth.
The energy portfolio as I mentioned I think has a significant impact Mike on that percentage.
And then just a more general question goes to the trade-of between generating revenues reserve in the revenue generation ability for Comerica with expenses today.
And so on the one hand I see loans growing faster loan utilization up you still benefit from the higher rates.
On the other hand I look at the expense to revenue ratio the efficiency ratio and it just looks a lot worse than peer and if you go back two decades the 90-92 merger of equal the expense to revenue ratio then was 61% today it’s higher 60s.
So I guess the question is how do you evaluate that trade-off and when do you think you could reach your target for a 60% efficiency ratio? Yes Mike we did announce a couple of years ago that we had an efficiency ratio target long term target to take that efficiency below 60%.
We have made progress towards that target despite the impact of the low rate environment on us and we do expect to continue to make progress.
We will need a little bit of a rate environment increase to ultimately get it over the goal line.
If you look at LIBOR 30 day LIBOR to which we’re most exposed it sits at 15 basis points today and that is incredibly low and we would deem a more normal rate environment to be closer to 300 basis points.
We certainly don’t need to get anywhere close to 300 to get it over the goal line but we will need a little bit of an uptick from here.
That’s a big difference in your comparison as the interest rate.
And my last question is a little sensitive for Ralph that’s for you.
I know you’re very young for your age I don't mean to imply anything like that in my question but what are your plans to retire on a mandatory retirement age is what would Comerica’s consideration be towards a strategic merger acquisition something like that? We don’t have a mandatory retirement.
The Board of Directors reviews the succession plan regularly and any time there is a meaningful decision made appropriate announcements are made at that point.
As you know we look at acquisitions from time to time and I guess we've done two in the last 10 years and they have to fit into the strategy and into the markets where we are and especially in the culture as well.
And I used Sterling as our latest acquisition as a point of where the culture and the combination has turned out to be a real home run for us in our Houston market from the addition of the talent and the combination with our people and the growth that we’re seeing in that market because of it they are doing a great job.
Our strategy there has not changed.
And just one follow-up to that.
I think right here you say is that you’re very confident about your future and Comerica’s future.
So under what circumstance would Comerica consider selling to another bank? And the only reason I bring that up is investors bring it up to me saying Comerica is a takeover target just wondering what you’d say to that? We’re very happy as I have said with our foot print and our strategy in what we have done and we’re going to continue to focus on that strategy to move forward especially to give the type of returns that our shareholders expect and deserve.
Your next question is from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital.
Well thanks for taking my question.
I guess maybe I’ll ask the question in another way from being a potential seller to a potential buyer.
I mean would you have any interest in diversifying into companies with adjacencies and say factoring businesses for example or vendor finance and the like [indiscernible] a company called CIP which is big in those businesses has a lot of excess capital and that would be merger equals to.
Is that something that you might consider at some point in time in terms of just helping to diversify your footprint from a lending standpoint? We like our footprint as we have said and especially being in Texas and California and with our long time home in Michigan.
And that footprint has the two largest economies in the country the two states of California and Texas.
And we like our overall model and we like to refer to ourselves as a mainstream bank.
And we have spent a lot of time in making sure that’s the kind of bank that we are and moving forward that is our strategy and we don’t look to change that strategy.
That’s helpful.
And then a question on just your national dealer services business.
Clearly that part of the business is benefiting from where we are in kind of the auto sales cycle and new car sales are just being taking a long a very strong clip March was very strong.
But I am trying to get a sense for what you would look at as an early indicator of the cycle potentially turning.
One of the things I look at is used car prices I know you predominantly I think financed new car inventory but if you were trying to find out some data points to see what would indicate a turn in that cycle or where you might turn a little more cautious in terms of that Dealer Floor Plan lending in particular but more broadly across your footprint of auto and rental car and leasing loans.
What kinds of things would you look at and how do you think about the cycle and where we’re at? I mean do you think you can benefit from another three or four quarters before you dial it back just some perspective on that would be helpful.
Well I think if you look back at history the auto sales peaked at little over 17 million we’re in the 16s now so that would be an indicator of I think where sales will be at some point in time and maybe when it gets to 17 million or above you’ll start to see a slowdown in that particular cycle.
The important thing from our strategy is that we look at multiple dealers that are our customers.
In other words generally they have at least five dealerships within their -- in their model.
And they are very much the majority of that or in our footprint.
As I remember Lars you commented on this about 60% of it is California.
Yes that’s exactly right.
That’s the biggest part and it’s naturally of all that the biggest mega dealers in the country are on the West Coast.
But just to speak to that we watch a number of different metrics on a regular basis to ensure that we’re tracking the health of the portfolio and inventory days on hand and those kinds of things.
And on an individual by individual basis each of these relationships are reviewed on a regular basis.
I would tell you that you are beginning to see the growth margins on new vehicles begin to narrow.
Last year those have kind of reversed and we’re beginning to see an expansion in those margins and I think that’s a positive for the industry.
So as I think Ralph pointed out we see a healthy 2014 in vehicle sales but we’re going to keep a close eye on the portfolio.
Thanks Lars.
Just in terms of some other metrics on underwriting perspective should we think about it in terms of LTVs against the value of full plan inventory how have the -- I mean I’m sure it’s the strength of the dealer themselves but also if you’re lending against that and its collateralized how should we think about LTVs say in that business have they moved have they increased decreased how should we think about that? I mean our strategy hasn’t changed I mean our LTV is what we finance really what I would say robust credit policy for underwriting dealers has not shifted at all through the cycle and even to today so I think you can have confidence in that.
If I could add this is John Killian if I could add we’ve been in this business for over 65 years we’ve been in it in a very major way on a national basis for over 20 years and it is over that period of time from a credit quality standpoint the best performing line of business that we have.
And your next question is from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Guys good morning thanks for extending the call so long I just have a quick question in terms of the general middle market lending segment.
Just you know curious where some of the strength there has come from it was highest I think it’s been in three or four quarters I assume it’s generally California and Texas but I wonder if you could kind of comment on where any specific pockets of strength are.
Yes absolutely yes general middle market would typically be your manufacturers distributors people [indiscernible] those kinds of companies that you would expect frankly Texas has been the biggest driver probably no surprise to you as GDP amongst our key primary states Texas leads the forecast for ’14 it’s at 3% California is 2%.
You know we would expect that our general middle market business would continue to go up.
I would tell you it’s a very competitive market we’re out there having to deliver the Comerica relationship banking model every single day win those relationships but we’ve been very pleased to see the growth in particular in Texas and in California in the past quarter and even growth in Michigan.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I will now turn the call over back to Mr.
Ralph Babb for closing remarks.
I would like to thank everybody being with us this morning and also your interest in Comerica and wish everybody a good day thank you.
And thank you again for participating in today’s conference you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Valerie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Persons you may begin.
Thank you Valerie.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; Vice Chairman of the Retail Bank and Wealth Management Curt Farmer; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our second quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in this release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our SEC filings.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported second quarter 2014 net income of $151 million or $0.80 per share compared to $139 million or $0.73 per share in the first quarter and $143 million or $0.76 per share one year ago.
It was a solid quarter with broad-based loan growth contributing to increased revenue.
Together with strong credit quality and our continued drive for efficiency we had a 10% increase in earnings per share compared to the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to Slide 4 in additional highlights compared to the first quarter average loans were up $1.7 billion or 4% and period-end loans were up $1.4 billion or 3% with notable growth in virtually every business line.
Loan commitments grew by more than $1 billion.
We attribute these results to continued improvements in the economy reflected particularly in the loan growth in Texas and California as well as our expertise in faster growing business lines and our consistent focus on relationships.
On a year-over-year basis we had average loan growth of $1.8 billion or 4% with growth in every business line except Mortgage Banker Finance which was driven by the overall industry decline in mortgage volumes.
The largest increases were in technology and life sciences national dealer services commercial real estate and energy.
Average deposits were up $614 million or 1% compared to the first quarter while period-end deposits were up $420 million to $54.2 billion.
Compared to a year ago average deposits increased $1.9 billion or 4% almost entirely driven by an increase in noninterest-bearing deposits.
Turning to the income statement and comparing our second quarter results to the first quarter of 2014 net interest income increased $6 million to $416 million primarily due to an increase in loans and one additional day in the quarter partially offset by a decrease in loan yields accretion and nonaccrual interest collected.
Credit quality continued to be strong with the provision for credit losses and net charge-offs still at low levels consistent with the last several quarters.
Noninterest income increased $12 million to $220 million with a $9 million increase in customer-driven fee income which included increases in a number of categories.
Noninterest expenses decreased slightly by $2 million to $404 million.
Our strong capital position supports our growth and enables us to return excess capital to shareholders.
We repurchased 1.2 million shares under our share repurchase program in the second quarter.
Together with dividends we returned $95 million or 63% of second quarter 2014 net income to shareholders.
Turning to Slide 5 and a quick look at the performance of our three primary markets on a quarter-over-quarter basis Texas posted the largest percentage increase in average loans in the second quarter.
Average loans in Texas were up slightly over $600 million or 6% with increases in all business lines.
Texas deposits were down $150 million as middle market companies used their excess cash to invest in their business.
Payroll employment growth in most metropolitan areas of Texas continues to be strong.
Residential construction activity is picking up to meet the strong demographic demand and drilling activity continues at a robust rate.
Average loans in California were up over $600 million or 4% largely driven by growth in national dealer services and commercial real estate.
Average deposits were up 4% with the biggest lift from general middle market and corporate banking partially offset by a decline in technology and life sciences.
Payroll job growth in California remains above the US average fueled by gains in high tech industries and strengthening housing markets.
Average loans in Michigan were stable across all our business lines.
Deposits were also stable with a modest increase in retail deposits offsetting a small decline in commercial deposits.
There has been some improvement in housing market statewide but payroll employment in Michigan has been flat over the past year.
Looking ahead national macroeconomic conditions appear to be favorable.
The marketplace is competitive but we are confident in our ability to add new customer relationships and expand existing ones while maintaining our credit pricing and structure discipline.
In June we received word that out of 25 largest US commercial banks Comerica is ranked number five among customers and number four among non-customers in the 2014 American Banker Reputation Institute Survey of Bank Reputations.
In closing we had a solid quarter given this competitive and persistently low rate environment.
We continue to be focused on growing the bottomline by carefully managing the things we can control such as expanding customer relationships maintaining expense discipline as well as credit quality all the while taking a prudent conservative approach to capital.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6 quarter-over-quarter total average loans increased 4% or $1.7 billion following a $1 billion increase in the first quarter.
Commercial loans were the major driver increasing $1.5 billion or 5%.
Our total commitments grew over $1 billion to $54.3 billion driven by increases in virtually all businesses.
Line utilization was 49.3% up from 48.3% at the end of the first quarter.
Importantly our pipeline remained robust.
Our loan growth trends remained strong and broad based through April then slowed in May and June similar to the commercial loan trends we've seen in H.8 data reported by the Fed.
Our average commercial loan growth outpaced the industry which grew about 2% based on the Fed H.8 data for US commercial banks from April 2nd to July 2nd.
Compared to the first quarter we saw average loan growth in almost every business line.
The largest increases were noted in mortgage banker with $433 million national dealer services $330 million energy $254 million technology and life sciences $205 million general middle market $158 million and commercial real estate $149 million.
Of note period-end balances of our Shared National Credit or SNC relationships grew less than 2% or approximately $150 million a fraction of our $1.4 billion in total period-end growth.
Finally loan yield shown in the yellow diamond decreased 8 basis points in the quarter of which 4 basis points can be attributed to lower accretion and lower interest collected on nonaccrual loans.
Much of the remaining decrease is due to amortization and payoffs of older higher yielding loans a mix change in customer usage and competitive pressures.
Turning to deposit on Slide 7 our total average deposit increased $614 million or 1% to $53.4 billion reflecting an increase in noninterest-bearing deposit.
Period-end deposits grew $420 million to $54.2 billion.
As shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide deposit pricing was stable at 15 basis points.
Slide 8 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consist of mortgage-backed securities that averaged $9 billion for the quarter.
The estimated duration of our portfolio still sits at four years and the expected duration under a 200 basis point rate shock extends it slightly to 4.7 years.
The yield on the MBS book dropped $2 million or 7 basis points to 2.35% mainly due to a decrease from the retrospective adjustment to the premium amortization recorded in the first quarter.
While there was a decrease the second quarter still had a small amount of retrospective adjustment which is not anticipated to happen every quarter and contributed 6 basis points to the yield.
And while our goal is to reinvest prepaid at or above the current portfolio yield the yields on the securities that are prepaying are typically above the portfolio yield and therefore anticipated to put continued modest pressure on the average yield.
Based on the current rate expectations we believe that the pace of prepays will be about $400 million to $500 million in the third quarter slightly higher than the past few quarters due to an increase in mortgage volume around the summer moving season.
In light of the fact that Fannie and Freddie-backed securities are subject to a haircut and a cap under the proposed liquidity coverage ratio or LCR we continue to reinvest the prepays in Ginnie Mae securities.
As far as the proposed LCR given our loan growth and debt repayment in the quarter we did see a decline in our excess liquidity balance which had an impact on our LCR estimate.
However we continue to feel comfortable that we will meet the proposed phased-in threshold within the required timeframe and reinvestment of the prepays in Ginnie Mae securities will assist us in meeting the requirement without being subject to cap and haircut.
As and when needed we have ready access to the federal home loan bank lines and the debt markets which will allow us to fund additional high-quality liquid assets or HQLA.
When and how much will depend on our own balance sheet dynamic and the final rule.
As we discussed at a recent conference the impact on our asset sensitivity and earnings depends on how any additional HQLA is funded and initially invested.
Turning to Slide 9 net interest income increased $6 million and net interest margin increased 1 basis point.
Strong loan growth added $12 million and one additional day in the quarter added $4 million.
These positive effects were partially offset by a $3 million impact from lower loan yield due to the portfolio dynamics I discussed a moment ago a decrease of $2 million in interest collected on our nonaccrual loans from an elevated first quarter amount and lower accretion of $2 million.
And as discussed on the prior slide interest earned on investment securities decreased $2 million.
All of these decreases combined negatively impacted the margin by 5 basis points and were more than offset by a decline in excess liquidity which added 6 basis points to the margin.
Just to note we expect accretion for 2014 to be $25 million to $30 million.
And as you can see in the bars on the slide $22 million has been realized year-to-date.
The remaining accretion on the full portfolio is only about $22 million which we expect to realize in small increments each quarter over the next few years.
As stated before we believe our balance sheet remains well positioned for a rise in short-term rates.
At a recent investor conference and in our 10-Q we shared our standard rate sensitivity model as well as alternative scenarios with varying assumptions.
In all cases as of June 30th our asset liability model which calculates a dynamic balance sheet assuming historical relationships shows that a 200 basis point increase in rates over a one-year period equivalent to a 100 basis points on average results in a benefit to net interest income from about $180 million to about $240 million depending on the assumption.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 10 net charge-offs decreased to $9 million or 8 basis points of average loans and included $19 million in recoveries.
Our criticized loans nonperforming loans and the allowance coverage ratio were all relatively stable.
Our allowance covers our trailing 12-month net charge-offs over 11 times.
Our solid credit metrics combined with loan and commitment growth resulted in a slight increase in the provision for credit losses to $11 million and a small reserve build.
Of note we received our annual SNC exam results last month.
They are reflected in our second quarter results and were not significant.
Slide 11 outlines noninterest income which increased $12 million.
Customer-driven fees increased $9 million including a $3 million increase in commercial lending fees from low activity in the first quarter as well as a $3 million increase in foreign exchange income due to a few large transactions and good volume.
We had smaller changes in several other areas such as increases in fiduciary and investment banking fees.
The $3 million increase in non-customer-driven income included a $2 million increase in bank-owned life insurance or BOLI and a $2 million increase in customer-related warrant income offset by a $1 million decrease in deferred compensation plan asset return which was completely offset in noninterest expense.
Non-customer-driven income is difficult to predict.
Elevated BOLI and warrant income in the second quarter may not be repeated in the back half of the year.
Turning to Slide 12 noninterest expenses decreased $2 million.
Salaries and benefits expense decreased $7 million reflecting seasonal declines in share-based compensation and payroll tax expense partially offset by the impact of one more day and a full quarter of merit increases.
We had small increases in several other categories such as software expense operational losses and outside processing.
While the expense is relatively stable while we grow revenue we were able to drive the efficiency ratio down to 63% from 66% last quarter.
Moving to Slide 13 and capital management as Ralph mentioned we repurchased 1.2 million shares under our share repurchase program.
Our 2014 capital plan includes share repurchases up to $236 million over the four quarters ending first quarter 2015.
Combining shares repurchased with the dividends paid we returned 63% of net income to our shareholders in the second quarter.
Our 2014 capital plan also includes the redemption of $150 million subordinated notes at par which we called effective today July 15th.
These notes have a carrying value of $182 million which will result in a $32 million gain.
Due to the non-core nature of this gain we have not included it in our outlook.
Our access to liquidity was clearly demonstrated when we issued $350 million in senior debt from the holding company in May.
The five-year security has a coupon of 2.125% which we swapped to floating at six-month LIBOR plus 42 basis points.
This is the first debt issuance we've done in almost four years and we were very pleased with the outcome.
Our capital position remained strong with a tangible common equity ratio of 10.4% and an estimated Basil III tier 1 common capital ratio of 10.2% at June 30th on a fully phased in basis excluding the impact of AOCI.
Finally turning to Slide 15 our outlook for full year 2014 compared to 2013 remained essentially unchanged from what we outlined on our call in April with the exception of loan growth.
We had previously indicated we anticipated 3% annual growth in average loans in 2014 consistent with 2013.
However given the stronger growth we have had in the first half of the year we now expect moderate annual growth of about 4% to 6% in average loans.
As you know we typically see seasonality in dealer and mortgage banker in the second half of the year.
Average dealer loans increased $330 million in the second quarter and much or more of that growth can be offset by seasonality in the third quarter.
As far as mortgage banker we have indicated that we expect this to average about $1.1 billion for the year.
For the rest of the loan portfolio we expect continued growth.
However keep in mind that the pace of growth slowed through the quarter and we continue to expect persistent headwinds from owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgages with normal amortization.
This competition continues for loans across all of our businesses.
And while we fully intend to maintain our loan pricing and credit discipline we do expect further portfolio yield decline.
It is important to note that where we could land in a 4% to 6% range will depend on the level of seasonality in dealer and mortgage banker along with whether or not the recent slower pace of growth continues in the rest of our businesses.
We believe it would take less seasonality than we've seen historically and more robust loan growth than we've had recently in the rest of our businesses to reach the top end of the range.
We continue to expect our net interest income to be modestly lower year-over-year even with stronger loan growth primarily due to lower accretion.
We had $49 million in accretion in 2013 and expect $25 million to $30 million in 2014 with $22 million already reported in the first half of the year.
And while we are pleased with the growth in our loan portfolio which is helping net interest income we do expect continued pressure from the low rate environment to approximately offset the positive effects from loan growth.
We continue to expect lower noninterest expenses primarily due to lower litigation related expenses and a reduction in pension expense.
As a reminder in the second half of the year we expect slightly higher outside processing occupancy and advertising expenses.
Finally our share count should reflect both the execution of our capital plan as well as the dilutive impact from our warrants and employee options on our stock price increases.
Our rule of thumb is that for every $1 increase in average stock price for the quarter warrants and option dilution is about 250 000 shares.
In closing we are pleased with the loan growth and expense control we've had in the first half of the year.
We continue to focus on the things we can control deepening and expanding customer relationships while carefully managing expenses.
We remain focused on delivering growth to our bottomline.
Now operator we would like to open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Second quarter loan growth was strong but did it change the way you're viewing the potential for growth in the second half or is the new guidance just reflective of a strong April? Steve as I mentioned we did see good growth in the second quarter and we did change our outlook to 4% to 6% based on that growth in the first half as well as looking into the future.
Where we land in that range does depend on the seasonality that we could have in both our dealer and our mortgage banker business as well as continued growth in the rest of our businesses.
But Karen if you take this seasonality those two businesses out of the equation what you saw in the second quarter did that make you any more optimistic for the back half of the year? We are optimistic for the back half of the year but we are mindful of the recent monthly trends that we've seen where we saw more robust growth in April followed by a slowing in both May and June.
And we are mindful of that.
That's why we have a broader range on our outlook for the rest of the year 4% to 6% because it depends on whether or not those trends continue and the amount of seasonality that we see in the rest of our businesses in mortgage and dealer.
The auto sector continues to get better and you could see that pretty clearly in your dealer finance numbers but the loan growth in Michigan has been pretty flat.
Why are you not seeing any pickup there? A big part of our portfolio in Michigan Steve is related to the auto industry and a big part of that is suppliers to the industry.
Those suppliers who are running at very high capacity rates have not yet really turned to make significant CapEx and expansion.
They're running three shifts.
They're very productive but we've not yet seen that kind of significant CapEx turn that you would sometime see in a recovering industry.
However we have continued to see no commitments increase over a period of time and we think we're very well positioned with some excellent customers to capture that growth once we see investments begin.
Maybe just one final one regarding the reinvestment of MBS into Ginnie Mae's Karen what's the average yield you're adding to Ginnie's? Today it would be between $220 million and $230 million.
We do remain focused on trying to add securities to our portfolio at or above our current portfolio yield.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
It's a follow-up to Steve's question.
Can you maybe help us a little bit how to think about this slowing that you're seeing that you saw in May and June can you give us a bit more color what portfolios and can you help kind of give us a little bit of quantification around how much of a slowing you're seeing in that pace of growth in certain portfolios? The growth that we did have John as we headed out of the first quarter into the second was very broad across all of our lines of business.
And I would say that there's been a similar kind of slowing of activity levels.
However we are continuing to hear from our customers slightly more optimistic comments about future investments.
We also saw an increase in commitments across virtually every business that we have and that was pretty steady throughout the quarter.
So frankly I can't put my finger on exactly an industry or a group that would be a key contributor.
But we think that we're well positioned given that we can control what we can control.
The business activity and fundamentals do pick up in the second half of the year.
I think we got the right businesses whether it's technology and life sciences it's energy general middle market and others that can benefit us but we're going to have to see how the economy responds.
In prior quarters we've kind of seen that up and down as well that’s not the first time.
We have.
There's a bit of a seasonality and oftentimes in the third quarter.
A piece of that is obviously linked in the third quarter to our dealer finance business.
But also the third quarter does tend to be a little bit softer and then we get stronger into the fourth quarter.
So I'm optimistic.
I think we've got some great colleagues with very deep industry expertise and are out there very active in the market and we're going to drive the growth that we can do without overreaching in a very competitive environment staying very disciplined on pricing as well as structure.
And is it too early to get a sense of July? I think if you follow the H.8 trends that's what we've been seeing so far at least.
And then lastly just around the excess liquidity just to confirm so the decline in the excess liquidity balance is the 40% decline in end of period excess liquidity Karen that should not necessitate a material change in your approach in how you're positioning for LCR is that correct? Yeah we did see a decline in excess liquidity and that was driven by loan growth and debt paydowns that we did in the quarter.
We have been repositioning the paydowns and prepays of our securities portfolio into Ginnie Mae securities.
And we are on a glide path towards the end of the year to be more positioned in Ginnie's so that we hopefully are not subject to any caps and haircuts.
That will obviously help us with the required rule.
The rule is not yet final as you know.
Much could change.
And so what we ultimately need to do will depend on our balance sheet at the time and the ultimate final rule.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
A follow-up on the balance sheet mix and structure.
So Karen the extra liquidity has kind of gotten down and you did a really good remix in this quarter without a meaningful increase in the securities size of the book and with loan growth still looking pretty good if not a little bit high versus the seasonality stuff that's coming.
Loans are still outgrowing deposits.
You still have some room.
How would you start to think about your overall balance sheet growth if your loans continue to outgrow deposits? What's your first choices for filling that gap on the right side of the balance sheet? Would it be to issue more sub-debt? Is it sub-advances? I think we're at this kind of period where the banks might start to have to think about that little bit differently.
Yeah so we have said that as loans grow and our excess liquidity decreases according to the proposed LCR rule we will need to be adding high-quality liquid assets.
As I said when and how much depends on balance sheet dynamics and the final rule.
To be compliant high-quality liquid assets can be several types of securities as well as just extra cash on your balance sheet.
And we do have ready access to the FHLB lines that we've got as well as the debt markets to be able to quickly add should we need to.
So whatever funding mechanism is most attractive at the time? That would be correct.
Most likely it would FHLB when and if we need it.
And then secondly so the seasonality that you're very clear about I know you're still talking about mortgage banker averaging $1.1 billion.
But can you just give us a little bit more flavor for just the underlying trends beneath both the floor plan business and mortgage banker in terms of is normal seasonality expected to hold versus the differing trends we've seen in both of those respective businesses about lower mortgage originations and higher auto originations how is that different than perhaps your original thoughts at the beginning of the year? So on mortgage banker we did say as part of our outlook that we expect the full year balances to average $1.1 billion where they were at the end of the year.
We do see seasonality through the year.
We saw decline in the first quarter.
We saw an increase of more than $430 million this quarter.
And when you look mortgage banker you typically see the peaks in the summer months and the troughs in the winter months aligned with the selling season.
So we do continue to expect seasonality.
That business can be very volatile.
And if you look at history the seasonality can be anywhere between 15% and 25% in the winter month.
I may also just mention in particular on the mortgage banking finance business that we are very much positively adept towards the purchase market and that's been a deliberate strategy to try to capture the recovering national housing market.
And in fact if you look at the second quarter our production was about 83% purchase versus industry at about 59%.
So we think we've positioned ourselves well for the future.
And we're also increasing market share.
Yeah we're absolutely Ralph increasing market share.
We're continuing to see a very robust pipeline.
We're adding new customers.
We're expanding with existing ones.
And I think it's an industry that our reputation continues to strengthen and I think is well positioned for the future.
And could you just comment on the floor plan side? Yeah on the floor plan we mentioned that we had a $330 million increase in our dealer business this quarter.
The seasonality in floor plan typically happens in the third quarter a little bit into the fourth quarter.
But if you look at typical seasonality it can go down between 5% and 10% of floor plan financing.
So that $330 million or more could go down as part of seasonality.
I may just add on one additional issues.
We look back say over the last 10 years I think Karen gave the range very nicely in terms of what we would typically expect.
However there are outlying years where we do not see the seasonality.
And we'll just have to kind of see how that plays out.
And obviously with annualized sales its 17 million units if that continues to rise that can certainly have some impact.
And that's close to the high before the downturn.
Yes it is.
It's the highest level in many years.
And that again is why our loan outlook for the rest of the year is a larger range between 4% and 6% depending on what happens with that alternate seasonality.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
First question you mentioned that the SNCs were up about $150 million end of period which seems like a little bit slower growth.
Was that by choice given stronger growth in other areas or is there something specific to that segment that actually led to the lower or slower growth? No there was nothing deliberate about it.
And frankly there is nothing deliberate about our SNC strategy.
It is simply a conservative risk management took that we use to manage our credit exposures.
All of our business has originated through the lines of business that we've been in for a long period of time.
It just happened to be that we actually did not see much increase this quarter.
And in fact the increase we did see was really due to the two largest areas general middle market and mortgage banking finance that continues to do very well and we were spreading some of our credit risk.
And then Karen a question for you.
You said you swapped the $350 million it was like 2% fixed-rate debt into floating.
I guess my question is why? I mean you guys make a big deal of being very asset sensitive but this seems to be a move that would reduce that asset sensitivity.
Actually keeping it swap does not change our asset sensitivity.
That is one of the reasons but we also recognize that we have significant upside just based on our own balance sheet.
And so keeping that asset sensitivity with swapping it we decided was not a bad strategy.
So when you said it doesn't change you mean it doesn't change it meaningfully or it doesn't change it at all? It doesn't change it meaningfully.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Just a question on the growth and commitments utilization continues to go higher.
Any discernible trends either by geography or business type? Yeah frankly obviously as you can see from the numbers that we are up about 100 basis points in utilization of 49.3%.
But if you take out mortgage banking finance which is an end of period measurement utilization rates were flat.
There was really no significant pattern there or changes in terms of utilizations.
Okay.
And then on the change in the reserve methodology obviously I wouldn't expect much change in the near term given credit trends are so strong.
But how would it potentially impact provisioning methods or methodology or levels once we get it to another credit cycle? Most importantly we have to remember that the enhancements to the approach were largely neutral to the total allowance for loan losses for Comerica overall.
What we did actually was enhance the approach used to determine our standard loss factors.
And in short that has the effect of capturing certain elements in the quantitative component of the reserve that had previously been captured in the qualitative.
Simple as that.
It did cause some changes in reserve allocations to some lines of business and some markets as more of the reserve was allocated based on risk ratings rather than on simple loan balance totals.
But in overall picture the allocation changes there were modest as well.
So no overall change to the Comerica picture because of this.
So in a credit cycle you wouldn't expect any changes in the overall kind of provisioning levels relative to what you had before if you applied this retroactively.
That's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> If I look back at the first quarter the energy portfolio was $3 billion and the energy segment of the SNC portfolio was also $3 billion.
And then in the second quarter energy loans up over $250 million but the SNC portfolio up just $100 million.
I know you commented on the SNC exam and the impact there.
What's going on within energy? Are you looking in different areas moving down-market for those numbers to move in the opposite direction? Energy was up over $250 million or 9% but that was not a significant contributor to our shared national credit portfolio represents less than 7% of our overall bank's portfolio.
I can't tell you that there was any specific strategies around that.
Energy credits do tend to be syndicated heavy just because the agent banks end up having a whole large positions which would be outside of our conservative credit discipline.
But there was really nothing unusual.
I would say that you may have seen some declines in some facilities that were agented and a few credits that were booked or advances that were not shared national credits during the quarter but nothing unusual there.
Agee</strong> And then as a follow-up digging into the specialized businesses where are you seeing the least amount of spread compression? And just some overall comments on the competitive trends within national dealer services tech and the mortgage banker book.
I'd say energy continues to be obviously a business that we get a decent margin in given our long-term expertise in that area.
We also see that in our technology business.
We frankly get nice returns in our general middle market business where we have been operating for many many decades.
And frankly we add a I think different proposition to the customers a premium service experience.
And that's what we focus on doing.
But whether it's environmental services entertainment a number of other businesses we are continually reallocating our resources to those higher-yield businesses to try to capture the growth as it's available on the marketplace and we're going to continue to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliott with Autonomous Research.
I've got a couple of questions on rising rates and deposits.
We hear kind of different messages from different banks on how they expect rates to impact deposits which obviously if you look at a system level there has been a lot of growth particularly in noninterest-bearing deposits.
So I'm interested in your take on that.
And then specifically on the guidance you gave us on what happens to net interest income when rates rise you say that's based on historical patterns in customer behavior but obviously we've not had a period in recent history where rates have been this low so curious as to how you extrapolate from the historical patterns to such a low rate environment? Geoffrey at a recent investor conference in early June we did share various scenarios around our rate sensitivity.
In our standard scenario that we talk about in our 10-Q we do expect in a 200 basis point rate increase or 100 basis points on average and in annual period we do expect deposits to decline and we do expect on deposit pricing that the deposit pricing is in line with historical experience.
But that said we don't know if that will be the future.
So we did provide some sensitivity scenarios of what if deposits decline more what if pricing increases more than it has over history what if loans grow faster what if rates rise faster.
And depending on those varying assumptions we showed that we are still very well positioned to benefit when rates do rise.
And that range can be between $180 million and $260 million.
Just more broadly JPMorgan for example have talked about system deposit outflows of $1 trillion in the second half of 2015.
When rates start moving up that clearly puts them at very high end of the range in terms of expectations for system outflows.
Other banks kind of say that deposits almost always keep rising.
So just thinking about the system as a whole how would you position yourself on that spectrum? Yes and in fact one of the sensitivity analyses we did can be reflective of that scenario.
So that $1 trillion outflow that JPMorgan has talked about is about 10% or slightly more outflow in the system.
And on one of our sensitivity analyses we said what if deposits declined $3 billion on average more than what we had assumed in the base scenario and keep in mind that would be $6 billion point-to-point and that would be more than the deposit outflow than JPMorgan has talked about in the $1 trillion scenario.
So the base case is $3 billion of outflows and then you're adding $3 billion on top? We don't disclose the exact amount of our standard case but we do expect deposits to decline in that standard case and the sensitivity is what if they decline another $3 billion on average or $6 billion point-to-point on top of that.
That was one of the scenarios we showed.
Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura Securities.
Karen can you talk about the interplay between LCR and your excess capital? From a capital perspective stronger loan growth will give you the opportunity to put more of your excess capital to work.
But I thought Karen I heard you say that you'd need to add high-quality liquid assets as your loans grow.
So just trying to kind of understand that interplay.
Any perspective around that would help.
Yes we did say and we have said all along that as loans grow and excess liquidity does decrease we will need to add high-quality liquid assets.
But we remain mindful of the fact that the rule is not final and that if we were to add securities today on a proposed rule not a final rule those securities are marked-to-market in a rising rate environment.
And the numerator on the LCR equation is a marked-to-market numerator.
So we remain mindful of that.
When and how much high-quality liquid assets we need or will need really depends on our balance sheet dynamics at the time that we do need it and depends on what the ultimate final rule will be.
So there is a lot of unknowns at this stage.
Broadly speaking is there a general scenario where you would find yourself with a fair amount of excess capital on the right-hand side of your balance sheet but on the left hand side of your balance sheet you're not necessarily able to return that given that the level of high-quality liquid assets that you need you're somewhat constrained by LCR in your ability to be able to draw those down to return that excess capital? Regulatory approvals aside I'm just kind of trying to understand the dynamics of the balance sheet.
So we have and have had over the last couple of years more excess liquidity than we've had in history and that's been driven by the dynamics of our balance sheet where we've had great deposit growth than we've had loan growth.
It's not typical for us to be having that much excess liquidity over a long period of time.
So we will operate with less excess liquidity over a long period of time.
Our excess liquidity balances at the end of the second quarter reached $2.5 billion have increased a little bit since then.
So we recognize that they decrease because of loan growth and because of debt paydowns that were purposeful.
But our excess liquidity over time is not necessarily going to be that large.
And over time depending on the final LCR rule high-quality liquid assets are needed and whether or not we keep that in cash on the balance sheet or invest it in securities is a decision that we'll make at that point in time.
Switching gears just one other question on the LCR disclosures that you gave recently.
Could you also just give us some perspective on what percentage of your deposit base you consider non-operating? The proposed rule as written is very thinly written particularly around operating account deposit.
So we will be looking to more clarification of that in the final rule.
It's very difficult for us to give you a number on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital Markets.
Just a couple of questions.
The provision for credit losses on your lending-related commitments increased by about $4 million from the last quarter.
Now I would assume part of that increase is just because the absolute size of your commitments grew from Q1 to Q2 but the magnitude of the increase still seems a little larger compared to the overall increase in your commitments.
I was just wondering if there is anything going on in there in terms of the mix of commitments or anything else that might account for that increase in that provisioning? No there is nothing Sameer that's unusual going on there.
I think what you're seeing to some extent is the law of small numbers causing what looks like an outsized change when it really isn't.
But there is no underlying change in the portfolio or what's going on within.
And then on a different note I know you did talk about the competitive environment and you gave some perspective in terms of the different businesses but I was wondering if you are able to quantify if you look at your total middle market business and you try to look at yields on new business booked this quarter versus last quarter could you give a sense for what the actual yields were because what I'm really trying to get a sense for is your margin and your yield on average may be coming down because of where yields on new business are.
But are we seeing that yields are stabilizing on new business because at least we'll get some sense of where those could stabilize and then be actually less of a putting downward pressure on the margin.
So could you give us a sense for that yield on new business within the middle market segment? Sameer when you look at our overall portfolio yield that has been coming down.
It's been more reflective of mixed shift in our usage on our portfolio and higher yielding loans while we don't have many fixed rate loans on our book we do have some and those higher yielding loans that mature and run off have an impact on the portfolio less around new business booked because we are very focused around maintaining spreads at our current separate business portfolio yields for all new and renewed business.
So I'm sorry from a competitive standpoint would you characterize the environment as being competitive but stable or do you see still further competition driving yields lower on new business? That's what I was trying to get a sense for.
I may have missed it in your comments but that's what I'm trying to get at.
Sameer I don't think that we have seen the competitive environment get relatively worse or more competitive over the past quarter or two.
But it is very very competitive.
We don't give specific yields on new production by line of business but I would tell you from a loan spread perspective we actually did see loan spreads in general middle market do well over the past quarter.
And part of that is we're trying to stay very focused on the parts of the market where we can deliver value to customers that are willing to pay for the Comerica value proposition.
So I guess in summary a stable competitive environment but we think that we're well positioned to be able to compete in the marketplace.
And then just a question on operating expenses.
I mean this 2014 CCAR was the first one that Comerica went through.
And I was trying to get a sense for costs that you might have incurred in going through that process and whether those costs should come down not only over the course of this year but perhaps into 2015 as maybe there were some consulting fees and other things you might have paid for that you may not need to incur going forward.
So could you give us a sense for that? I don't think I saw it explicitly mentioned in your outlook.
We have talked about the fact that increased regulation from CCAR Dodd-Frank in general has had increased expenses by over $20 million annually.
Most of that is in our run rate.
And most of that is related to the stress test.
We have been less focused on using consultants in the stress test so I wouldn't anticipate that we could see benefits in the future on that expense.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Hey good morning.
Actually this is Jason Harbes from Matt's team.
So just a follow-up on the credit question that was asked.
I guess I was just a little bit surprised that the net charge-off guidance didn't change considering that you're running it basically 40% to 50% below last year's levels.
So I'm just I guess curious why you would kind of maintain that net charge-off guidance for the full year.
Again it might be a reflection of the law of small numbers.
But if you take a look at our net charge-offs for the past several quarters they've all been pretty close during a period where I would call a relatively small stable range and that's what our outlook expects as we go forward through the rest of the year.
And then just switching over to the fee income line that was a little better than we were expecting but it sounds like there were some episodic trades on the FX side that may not recur.
Is that fair? Did I hear that correctly? Yes we did benefit from a few larger trades on the FX side this quarter.
We did also see some good volume as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR Capital Markets.
Really only one quick question.
You've talked a lot about the loan growth and how that has affected the LCR positioning.
Just curious if the LCR requirements in any way affect your appetite for loan growth as we go into the back half of this year? So on LCR again because the rule is not final we are not going to have any major reactions around it at this stage.
We are focused on prudently growing our balance sheet with the right assets and we will continue to focus on that.
Yeah it depends on the final rules as to what effect it may have on specific businesses.
And so then once you sort of have the final rules in place I know you had talked early in the call but would be willing to borrow or sort of do what you need to do to purchase whatever liquid assets are necessary? That's correct.
We feel confident that no matter what the final rule is we'll able to easily handle it.
Your final question comes from the line of Keith Murray with ISI.
On page 19 of the press release where you give the detail on asset yields just scratching my head a little bit.
Looks like the yield on loans yield on securities both declined sequentially but the total yield on earning assets went up.
Could you just give me the back and forth of the dynamic behind that? Sure.
Our loans and security yields did decline in the quarter.
Yes our asset yields did go up.
And the key reason for that is our excess liquidity.
Our excess liquidity declined.
That had been earning 25 basis points.
So as that declines and is put into assets that are earning higher that's what impacted our overall asset yield.
And then you've talked before about if the 10-year yield doesn't pick up as we head to the end of the year pension expense might creep up in 2015.
Are there any potential expense areas you guys look at and think that they could somewhat offset a potential increase next year in pension expense? Yeah we're not giving guidance for 2015.
But what I would say is that we have a culture of maintaining focus on self-funding wherever we have an expense increase to try to find ways to self-fund that increase to keep expenses as flat as possible.
You mentioned the total deposits declined a little bit in Texas as corporations use some of their money and put it to work.
Are you seeing a dynamic like that anywhere else? Any change in deposit behavior anywhere else? We did see deposits decline in mostly middle market in Texas and it's due to the phenomenon that we talked about.
While we have seen smaller declines in some other areas they were not notable.
And so we're not seeing any big trends.
There's not robust growth either in the commercial side so that it is an indicator as well.
Yeah we did see some gains in deposits in the state of California in several businesses where we had some growth which was positive.
There are no further questions in the queue.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Ralph Babb.
I'd like to thank you all for being on the call today and for your interest in Comerica.
And I hope everybody has a great day.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in this morning's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Persons you may begin.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning and welcome to Comerica's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of the Business Bank Lars Anderson; Vice Chairman of the Retail Bank and Wealth Management Curt Farmer; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our third quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause future results to vary from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statements contained in this release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I will re-direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3 Good morning.
Today we reported third quarter 2014 net income of $154 million or $0.82 per share compared to $151 million or $0.80 per share in the second quarter and $147 million or $0.78 per share in the third quarter 2013.
The third quarter reflected broad based average loan and deposit growth solid credit quality and expenses that continued to be well controlled.
The quarter also included a $32 million gain from the early redemption of debt as well as $15 million and charges related to efficiency incentives initiatives and a contribution to our charitable foundation of $9 million all of which we consider to be non-core.
All together these actions provided an after tax benefit to our third quarter results of $5 million or $0.03 per share.
Turning to Slide 4 and highlights for the quarter average total loans were up $3 billion or 7% on a year-over-year basis and were up $434 million or 1% compared to the second quarter.
Loan growth was led by Mortgage Banker Finance which increased $276 million in line with the summer home selling season.
Notable loan growth was also seen in technology and life sciences energy and commercial real-estate.
As expected this was partly offset by $178 million decline in auto dealer floor plan loans as our customers worked down their inventory in preparation of receiving new models.
And with reduced line utilization general middle market loans declined $142 million.
Overall the pace of loan growth declined relative to the second quarter due to the typical summer slowdown as well as moderating GDP growth.
We believe our customers are becoming stronger and more confident however they remain somewhat cautious and continued to build liquidity.
We grew deposits in the third quarter in almost every business line with the bulk in non-interest bearing deposits.
Accounts; average total deposits increased $3.3 billion or 6% year-over-year to $55.2 billion.
Relative to the second quarter deposits grew $1.8 billion or 3% with almost half coming from general middle market.
In further comparing our third quarter results to the second quarter net interest income decreased $2 million to $414 million primarily due to the decline in accretion of $7 million as expected partially offset by the benefit from loan growth.
Credit quality continued to be strong as the provision for credit losses and net charge-offs remain at low levels as we have seen for the last several quarters.
Non-interest income declined $5 million to $215 million driven by a $3 million decline in customer-driven fees primarily foreign exchange income and a $2 million decline in non customer income.
Excluding the $8 million net benefit or $5 million after tax from the non-core actions we took in the third quarter that I mentioned earlier non-interest expenses remained stable.
Finally we continue to execute our capital plan.
We repurchased 1.2 million shares in the third quarter under our share repurchase program.
Combined with dividends we returned $95 million or 62% of third quarter net income to shareholders.
Turning to Slide 5 and a look at our three primary markets.
Texas has been enjoying a remarkable period of economic expansion.
The ensuing population growth has supported even more job growth in the construction trades and in the service sector.
Our third quarter average loans in Texas were up 12% compared to a year ago and average deposits increased about 3%.
California is showing above average economic growth as labor market conditions are improving quickly.
In August California created more jobs than any other state coming in right ahead of Florida and Texas.
Our California average loans have grown 11% over the past year and average deposit growth has also been strong posting a 12% increase.
The Michigan economy is benefiting from strong auto sales and gains in other durable goods manufacturing.
Overall our customer’s financial performance has been strong and they continued to delever and build cash.
This is reflected in the stable average loans and solid deposit growth.
Before turning it over to Karen I wanted to mention a couple of other items.
As you may know Comerica is the pre-card prepaid card issuer for the U.S.
Treasury Direct Express Program.
The Treasury has recently selected us as the financial agent for the Direct Express Program for an additional five years.
Separately we recently announced that we entered into an agreement with Vantiv to provide payment processing solutions for our merchant services customers.
Comerica’s merchant services enable businesses to enjoy the convenience of accepting card payments with a focus on providing those businesses with the means to improve efficiency as well as adapt to the latest technology and payment solutions.
The Direct Express Program our new merchant services platform as well as our trust alliance business which we discussed at an investor conference in September are all great examples of how we leverage partnerships to provide a wide array of growing products and services for our customers.
In closing we are focused on the long term and building enduring relationships.
We offer our customers a value proposition by providing them products and services that meet their needs which enables us to hold our pricing parameters while not varying from underwriting standards that have served us well through many cycles.
We continue to face rising regulatory and technology demands as well the possibility of higher pension expense next year if long term rates remain at their current level.
We have taken some actions this quarter intended to assist us in partially mitigating these headwinds.
We remain focused on controlling the things we can control and are well positioned to benefit as the economy improves and rates ultimately rise.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 6 quarter-over-quarter total average loans increased 1% or $434 million.
Commercial loans were the major driver increasing $298 million or 1%.
Commitment growth of over $850 million outpaced loan growth resulting in a decline in utilization rate to 48.3% down from 49.3% at the end of the second quarter.
Importantly our pipeline remained robust and increased during the quarter.
Similar to the commercial loan trend we’ve seen in the H.8 data reported by the Fed our pace of loan growth slowed in the third quarter relative to the first half of the year.
As Ralph mentioned we believe this is in line with the typical summer slowdown including seasonality and our national dealer business along with moderating GDP growth.
While the pace slowed the growth we had in the third quarter was broad based.
The larger increases in average loans compared to the second quarter were noted in mortgage banker with $276 million technology and life sciences $110 million energy $95 million and commercial real estate $88 million.
Two businesses declined National Dealer Services by $178 million due to model year changeover and general Middle Market by $142 million due to lower line utilization with the summer slowdown.
Period-end loans declined $174 million to $47.7 billion yet remained well above the third quarter average.
This decline included decreases in National Dealer Services of $356 million and general middle market of $246 million for the same reasons I just described as well as the decrease in Mortgage Banker Finance of $102 million reflecting the beginning of the decline of the summer peak.
Increases in almost all other business lines partially offset the decline.
Remember that our loans typically spike at quarter end so the average for the quarter is a better indicator of trend.
Finally loan yields shown in the yellow diamond decreased 9 basis points in the quarter of which 6 basis points can be attributed to lower accretion and one basis points each attributed to lower interest collected on non-accrual loans and negative residual value adjustment to assets and our leasing portfolio and a decline in loan yields resulting from loan portfolio dynamics such as a mix change in customer usage.
Turning to deposit on Slide 7 our total average deposit increased $1.8 billion or 3% to $55.2 billion consisting of a 5% increase in non-interest bearing deposit and a 2% increase in interest bearing deposits.
Almost every business line posted growth with the most significant increase in general middle market which increased 6% and accounted for almost half of the increase in our total average deposit.
We believe general middle markets increase in deposits and decrease in loans go hand-in-hand as customers increase their cash and have less need to borrow against their line.
Period-end deposits grew $3.4 billion to $57.6 billion and like our loans tend to spike at quarter end.
Infact our deposits increased $1.5 billion in the last two weeks of the quarter.
For that reason remember that average balances are what drives our net interest income.
Deposit pricing remains low at 15 basis points as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
Slide 8 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consist of mortgage-backed securities that averaged $9 billion for the quarter.
The estimated duration of our portfolio still sits at four years and the expected duration under a 200 basis point rate shock extends it slightly to 4.7 years.
The yield on the mortgage backed securities book declined 6 basis points as the second quarter included a $1 million retrospective adjustment to the premium amortization and there were no adjustment recorded in the third quarter.
Our goal is to reinvest prepaid at or above the current portfolio yield.
However the yields on the securities that are prepaying are typically above the average portfolio yield and therefore if rates remain at current levels we anticipate continued slight pressure on the average yield.
Based on the current rate expectations we believe that the pace of prepays will be about $350 million to $450 million in the fourth quarter inline with what we have experienced the past couple of years.
In light of the fact that Fannie and Freddie-backed securities are subject to a haircut and a cap under the liquidity coverage ratio or LCR we continue to reinvest the prepays in Ginnie Mae securities.
As far as the LCR the final rule was issued last month.
Banks our size will now need to [phase] and compliance beginning in 2016 and will be subject to a monthly calculation.
While we are still in the process of accessing the final rule and will continue to do so while we work to clarify the detail and analyze our customer data we estimate as of quarter end our LCR ratio stand at about 80%.
We continue to feel comfortable that we will meet the phase and threshold within the required timeframe which is now 90% by January 2016.
We will need to add high-quality liquid assets or HQLA over the next year to meet the 90% plus above or to withstand normal volatility.
Exactly how much in liquid assets we add will depend on our loan and deposit growth over the next 15 months and the resulting change to our access deposits as I said which count as HQLA.
We had said before that adding securities should not have a significant impact to our earnings and the impact to rate sensitivity will depend on a fixed or floating nature of both the funding and the investment side.
As we make decisions on fixed versus floating we will remain mindful of the current rate environment with a focus on not pre maturely altering our overall upside to rising rates.
Turning to Slide 9 net interest income decreased $2 million primarily due to a decline in accretion as expected of $7 million.
Loan growth and one additional day in the quarter each added $4 million to net interest income.
This was partially offset by a $2 million negative residual value adjustment to asset in our leasing portfolio.
$2 million impact from portfolio dynamics such as the mix in customer usage as well as the $1 million decline in interest collected on non accrual loans.
Other than these effects from the loan portfolio a decline in our debt interest cost reflective of the net impact of recent maturities redemptions and issuances provided a $2 million benefit and interest earned on investment securities decreased $1 million as I discussed on the prior slide.
Finally the $1.1 billion increase in average deposits as I said added $1 million.
The net interest margin decreased 11 basis point with the decline in accretion having a 5 basis point impact and the increase in liquidity as I said having a 4 basis point impact.
Loan portfolio dynamics and the lease residual value adjustments had a combined two basis point impact.
Movements related to lower securities yield and interest on our wholesale debt netted to zero.
Just to note we expect accretion in the fourth quarter to be about $5 million for a total of approximately $30 million for the full year.
There is only about $20 million in total accretion yet to be realized which we expect to recognize in small increments each quarter over the next couple of years.
We believe our balance sheet remains well positioned for a rise in short term rates.
As of September 30 our standard asset liability case which calculates the dynamic balance sheet assuming historical relationship shows that a 200 basis points increase in rates over a one year period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in a benefit to net interest income of about $225 million.
Turning to Slide 9 net interest income increased $6 million and net interest margin increased 1 basis point.
Strong loan growth added $12 million and one additional day in the quarter added $4 million.
These positive effects were partially offset by a $3 million impact from lower loan yield due to the portfolio dynamics I discussed a moment ago a decrease of $2 million in interest collected on our non accrual loans from an elevated first quarter amount and lower accretion of $2 million.
And as discussed on the prior slide interest earned on investment securities decreased $2 million.
All of these decreases combined negatively impacted the margin by 5 basis points and were more than offset by a decline in excess liquidity which added 6 basis points to the margin.
In past investor conferences we have shared alternative assumptions to our standard case including the pace of deposit loan and rate changes and in all cases we remain well positioned for rising rates.
Turning to the credit picture on Slide 10 net charge-offs decreased to $3 million or 3 basis points of average loans and included $21 million in recoveries.
Our criticized loans decreased and nonperforming loans and the allowance coverage ratio were both stable.
Our allowance covers our trailing 12-month net charge-offs 16 times.
Our solid credit metrics and strong recoveries combined with loan and commitment growth resulted in a decrease in the provision to $5 million and a small reserve build.
Slide 11 outlines non-interest income which declined $5 million.
Customer-driven fee income decreased $3 million including a $3 million decrease in foreign exchange income from our high second quarter level and a $2 million decrease in investment banking fees.
This was partially offset by a $3 million increase in commercial lending fees.
Non-customer-driven income decreased $2 million.
Turning to Slide 12 non-interest expenses included a net benefit of $8 million from non core actions taken in the third quarter.
Aside from these actions expenses were stable increasing just $1 million as the impact from one additional day of salaries expense and small increases in occupancy and several other categories were partially offset by lower litigation related expenses.
The non core net benefit of $8 million included the early redemption of debt a contribution to our charitable foundation as well as changes related to our continual drive for efficiency.
As far as the debt I mentioned last quarter that we had called $150 million in subordinated notes effective July 15th.
These notes had a carrying value of $182 million which resulted in a $32 million gain in the third quarter.
We also made a $9 million contribution to Comerica’s charitable foundation which support non-profit organizations in the communities we serve.
As you know we are continually focused on efficiency.
We did take actions in the third quarter amounting to $15 million and non core charges on a number of small projects intended to assist us and partially offsetting the headwinds we are facing for rising regulatory and technology demand in addition to the possibility of higher pension expense next year.
For example we continuously review our real estate requirements to ensure we are optimizing our square footage.
As a result we are consolidating space and taking a charge as we exit a handful of properties.
We anticipate taking a further charge of approximately $5 million to $7 million in the fourth quarter primarily related to real estate optimization as we complete the remaining items identified.
While the implementation of the project is ongoing we estimate that by the end of next year we should achieve run rate savings of about $12 to $14 million.
Related to rising technology and regulatory demand we will need to continue to invest in technology projects related to evolving cyber security and compliance including the liquidity coverage ratio and changes required by the card industry.
Related to pension expense there are several factors that determine our annual pension expense such as the discount rate which is set at year end.
If long term rates remain at the current level which is lower than where they were at year end 2013 the discount rate on liability could be lower driving an increase in our annual pension expense.
In our 10-K we disclosed that for every 25 basis point change in the discount rate the impact is about $8 million.
In addition a new draft mortality table was released earlier this year and it is possible that the new mortality assumptions could also drive the extent higher.
Moving to Slide 13 and capital management as Ralph mentioned we repurchased 1.2 million shares this quarter under our share repurchase program.
Combing shares repurchase with the dividends paid we returned 62% of net income to our shareholders in the third quarter and year-to-date we have returned 67% of earnings.
Our capital position remains strong with a tangible common equity ratio of 9.9% and an estimated Basel III tier one common capital ratio of 10.4% at September 30th on a fully on a fully phased in basis excluding the impact of AOCI.
Turning to our final slide 14 our outlook for full year 2014 compared to full year 2013 has not changed from what we outlined on our call in July.
We have however narrowed our year-over-year expectations for average loan growth to be about 5%.
It was previously 4% to 6%.
And we now expect accretion to be about $30 million at the upper end of the $25 million to $30 million we had provided.
Turning to our expectations for the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter as outlined on the slide.
We expect average loans to grow slightly assuming continued moderate economic growth.
We believe we will see a rebound in our floor plan loans as auto dealers receive their 2015 model inventory.
And we expect mortgage banker outstandings to decline as home sales are typically lower in the fourth quarter.
For the rest of the loan portfolio we expect a small increase.
Keep in mind that competition is stiff across all of our businesses and we fully intend to maintain our loan pricing and credit discipline.
We expect our net interest income to grow slightly with a small increase in accretion to about $5 million from the $3 million in the third quarter.
The positive effect from loan growth in our portfolio should approximately offset the continued pressure from the low rate environment.
With continued strong credit quality we expect net charge-off and provision to remain low similar to what we saw in the first two quarters of the year.
Overall we expect non-interest income to be relatively stable with customer driven income similar to the third quarter.
While we expect these to be modestly higher in several areas we have seen lumpiness in certain categories such as indication fees which were elevated in the third quarter.
Non-customer-driven income contains items such as warrant income preferred comp and securities gains and losses all of which are difficult to predict but overall we expect them to decline.
Non interest expenses are expected to be higher remember that our third quarter included a net benefit of $8 million from non core items.
And as I mentioned we expect additional non core charges in the fourth quarter of about $5 million to $7 million primarily focused on real estate optimization.
Furthermore we expect a modest increase in core expenses related to higher technology in consulting expenses as well as a seasonal increase in benefits expense.
In closing we are pleased with our third quarter broad based average loan and deposit growth and strong credit quality.
We continued to demonstrate our expense discipline and took actions in the third quarter intended to help offset some of the expense headwinds arising from increasing regulatory and technology demand.
We will continue to focus on the things we can control and we believe our relationship banking strategy combined with our geographic footprint will serve us well as the economy improves.
Now we would like to open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Terry McEvoy with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Terry.
Agee</strong> Hi good morning.
I guess just start with a question for you Ralph.
As you look at the energy portfolio what’s your outlook going forward any concerns given the drop in prices? And then specifically the servicing piece of energy is that something that we need to focus on going forward? Okay John you want to answer that? Sure.
Good morning Terry.
The short answer is no we are not concerned at this time.
We’ve been in this business for 30 years so we have seen lots of ups and downs; in fact the price was in the low 80s in 2012 2010 and 2009 as well.
And we have about $3.4 billion in outstandings at the end of the quarter which is about 7% of the portfolio approximately 95% of our portfolio is secured.
Most of our customers are well hedged on average 50% are hedged for two full years and many are for longer periods.
At current prices drilling activity probably will plateau but production is going to be fine.
So overall I’m very comfortable at this time.
To address your services issues that’s about 17% of the total energy portfolio right now.
Agee</strong> And then what do you expect to spend this year -- question for Karen on technology and regulatory issues just trying to establish your base and to build off next year.
And then on the expenses if things were to stand today at the end of the year what would the pension cost look like in 2015? Sure I’ll take those in pieces.
In technology we typically have an investment spend an annual investment spend between $75 million and a $100 million and an annual expense between $30 million and $40 million.
As I mentioned we do expect that spend and expense to increase because of the increase in technology demands related to the regulatory environment related to card industry compliance and related to cyber security.
On regulatory issues and matters we have said before that year-to-date or in 2014 we have added about 85 people amounting to a little bit more than 25 million an annual run rate expense.
Much of that or the vast majority of that already build into our run rate.
And we do expect that to increase as we continue to have new regulatory requirement.
On the pension expense that expense is set at the end of every year based on key assumptions made particularly the discount rate on our liability.
That rate is set based on our long term AA corporate bond index which matches the liability matches the duration of our pension liability.
Last year that discount rate was 5.17% and we’ll see what the discount rate is at the end of this year but given the current rate environment if this sticks the pension expense related to the discount of the liability could increase.
And if new mortality tables are introduced this year by the Society of Actuaries our potential expense related to mortality assumptions could increase as well.
Our pension expense this year is about $39 million.
You may recall last year it’s about $86 million.
Agee</strong> Okay.
Thank you Karen.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning everyone.
Maybe for John Killian I’m curious at what price does oil need to fall for you to become concerned over the portfolio? Okay.
John.
Sure hi Steve.
You know it depends of course on every individual borrower’s specific set of facts and their set of costs but remembering that generally speaking we’re pretty comfortable at the 80s as I mentioned earlier.
If we go into the 70s activity will slow more.
If we go into the 60s on oil you’ll see it slow a lot and you’ll probably see some credit issues begin to arise if we go in the 60s and stay there for a prolong period of time because as I said a lot of our customers now are well hedged.
That’s completely different than prior ups and downs in the oil business.
So that’s going to give us some runway here to get through a temporary period of lower prices.
But if it goes into the 60s and stays there for let’s call it two or three years you’ll begin to see some credit issues.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And Karen – thanks John.
And Karen for the pension expense given the discount rate that you just highlighted why wouldn’t this go back up to $86 million or higher based on – I assume that you’re trying to telegraph that this expense is going up meaningfully in 2015? Yes.
It could go up meaningfully in 2015 Steve.
But again the discount rate is set at the end of the year and we don’t have a crystal ball on what long-term rates will be at the end of the year.
So and we don’t know what the mortality tables that could be introduced between now and the end of the year would say so difficult for us to give you any specifics.
Right.
Karen do you a sense though let’s just say rates stayed where they were today and the mortality tables didn’t changed where that level goes to next year? Yes.
In our 10-K Steve we do disclose that for every 25 basis point change in the discount rate that would equate to about $8 million impact on the pension expense.
Okay.
And then maybe one final one regarding the guidance calling for the seasonal decline in mortgage warehouse following up that rates are lower any signs of the pickup in mortgage warehouse given where rates have moved down to here in the quarter and maybe what was the mix in 3Q or purchase and refi? Thanks.
Lars you want to take that.
Yeah absolutely so looking at the third quarter we did see the seasonal decline as Karen pointed out to you of $276 million increase over the prior quarter.
But if you look at the period end we were down $102 million.
One point I’d like to make is that the decline in linked-quarter averages was down substantially less than we saw in the prior year which I think positions us well on a go forward basis.
To maybe to frame that a little bit for you we actually increased our averages by 21% and that was against an industry.
It had an increase of about 3% in mortgage volume.
But we would expect to see softness in the fourth quarter exactly where that land is going to be very difficult to tell.
But I think we have all heard with the U.S.
Treasury 10-year Treasury where it is mortgage activity has picked up in the most recent few days I think across the industry.
I think we’re very comfortable with our position in the industry.
We continue to capture more and more customers with each quarter.
We have very deep cross-sell within the highest treasury management cross-sell across the entire company and so we see this is a growth business working with some of the best mortgage companies in America.
Lars how about the mix on current…? Thank you Ralph.
So the mix for us as I mentioned in previous earnings conference calls we have really taken an active position to pick up more of the purchase volume.
We’re up to 80% the industry is at 58%.
I think that that’s part of what helped us in this last quarter linked-quarter as outperforming the industry.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Ken.
Hey this is actually Josh in for Ken.
Good morning Josh.
Hey good morning.
So you noted the expenses this quarter were helped by a lower litigation.
How should we think about the trends for this expense item going forward? Karen.
Yes.
I would say our litigation related expenses compared to larger banks in the industry are low.
They can be lumpy and are difficult to predict.
But at this stage we feel very comfortable with the reserves that we’ve got on our balance sheet.
Okay.
That’s fair.
And then to what extend do you expect the efficiency savings to offset the increases that you’re expecting in compliance and technology? Yeah.
We are right now in the details of working through our 2015 budgeting process.
And as we typically do we’ll give an outlook on 2015 in the fourth quarter earnings call in January.
But we have said that we expect these run rate savings from the actions taken both this quarter and expected next quarter resulting in $12 million to $14 million run rate savings are intended to help partially offset some of the rising demands and increases that we see.
Okay.
And then just one final question FX volume was stronger generally across the industry and it declined a bit for you in the third quarter.
Can you just provide color for that line item? Lars.
Fixed volume -- you’re talking about in the lending space.
FX.
I’m Sorry FX.
Foreign exchange.
Yeah foreign exchange we really had an anomalous quarter in the second quarter of this year.
We had a several large transactions.
So I think we’re back to really a normal run rate.
Okay.
Well thanks for the color guys.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Ken.
How are you? Doing well.
Thank you.
Maybe little more specific question on expenses.
Hope you can give us a magnitude here because I guess in fourth quarter we’re going to add the $8 million plus the $5 million to $7 million so it’s roughly $14 million.
When Karen mentioned the technology consulting benefits expense are we talking about like another $14 million or what’s kind of magnitude of that unknown piece? Yeah of the rest of piece -- and you’re right Ken you should add back the $8 million and then add back the additional $5 million to $7 million.
And then top of that we expect a modest increased quarter-over-quarter related to as we said consulting technology and a seasonal increase in healthcare benefit.
Okay.
So maybe $5 million $10 million is that modest in your view broadly? We don’t give specific numbers.
Fine okay.
Then second I had just on slide seven when you guys think about deposit run-off in a higher interest rate environment you guys assume that sort of stable percentage of non-interest bearing deposits run-off or does that percentage increased as deposits grow disproportionately to loan growth? In our standard interest rate scenario in the up 200 scenario we do assume a modest decline in deposits and we do expect that over time as interest rates rise we’ll continue to see a mix shift out of non-interest bearing into interest bearing.
Is that your question? Well I guess let’s take your $1.3 billion of non-interest bearing this quarter which phenomenal growth do you just assume that you’ll keep most of that right I mean in the model that you use or do you assume that as we get further into the cycle as you just get a ton more of this non-interest bearing that it just increases the risk that a greater percentage actually starts to run-off in the different environment.
I’m just trying to think of how you’re assessing that 200 basis point scenario? Yeah.
Keep in mind that much of our non-interest bearing is related to commercial deposits and much of those commercial deposits are tied with an earnings credit rate to pay for operating services that our customers have with the bank.
So they tend to be far more sticky than normal non-interest bearing deposits.
And we do take that into account in our interest rate sensitivities that we expect some decline but we recognize that there is stickiness to those deposits.
Okay.
Great.
And then last question are you replacing the debt that you redeemed this quarter with other long-term borrowings or changing your liability structure in anyway? Yeah.
This year you’ll note that we have – did have some debt maturities and we did issue $600 million in debt.
We next year as we look forward to needing to add high quality liquid asset for the LCR ratio we will need to be funding those and do expect to be in the debt market next year.
Great.
All right.
Thank you Yeah.
Thank you.
Hey Ralph.
If I could add maybe just one point to the question about the commercial DDA in particular that maybe helpful.
As those continue to grow we’re being very active in terms of bringing payments solutions treasury management to these core relationships and encumbering these deposits.
And I think that that’s one of the reasons that as Karen develops her forecast for the run-off one of our obviously strategies is to ensure that we make those sticky as possible.
And in addition we are hearing from treasurers CFOs of our customers that they are planning to run a higher liquidity levels than they did before the great recession.
So I think that’s speaks favorably to our liquidity position.
Good.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Bob.
Yeah good morning.
I was hoping you could just touch on the build in the interest-bearing deposits held at banks the liquidity buildup on the balance sheet.
Is this in anticipation of investing some of that in high quality liquid assets or how should we think about that build? For us the high-quality liquid assets in the numerator of the LCR equation obviously do include the excess deposits at the Federal Reserve.
And so as we’ve seen an increase in deposits this quarter that has increased the excess deposits that we have at the Federal Reserve and has – has helped in the LCR calculation.
Does that answer your questions? I guess I’m asking is the intent to keep it there as excess deposits and that is your high-quality liquid assets or would the thought be that you would invest that at some point in Ginnie Maes or something with a little bit more yield? Yeah.
So as we think about our liquidity position and how we should invest but we do remain mindful of the current low interest rate environment.
And the fact that locking in a lot more additional securities in this low rate environment is not that appealing particularly when these securities will be mark-to-market and the numerator in the LCR equation is a mark-to-market numerator.
So we will be making decisions over the next year around the investment but we will certainly keep the rate environment in mind.
Okay.
All right that is helpful.
And then I think I get it but I just wanted to touch on the purchase accounting accretion.
Based on the $7 million decline you all describe this quarter I think the total accretion was $3 million this quarter is that a good number? That’s correct.
It was $3 million this quarter and we said that we expected to be about $5 million next quarter.
At this stage we believe the benefit from accretion will be small every quarter going forward because we only have about $20 million left in accretion to be realized.
Okay.
And then I guess after the fourth quarter that would be down to $15 and that is the expectation it just sort of diminishes from that $5 million level over time? Yes.
It would diminish over time.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
If I could start with the other side of the efficient equation Ralph you mentioned Direct Express payment processing and trust alliance in your prepared remarks I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of how much in terms of revenue contribution incrementally those initiatives can add to 2015? You know I would like to ask Curt to talk about our alliance especially business these are growing businesses some like of the alliance business we’ve been in for a long time and that’s one that let me have Curt comment on that then I’ll bounce back to the others.
Erika thank you for the questions so on the alliance business is where we are providing third-party trust services to broker dealers and we’ve got 13 relationships across the country with some of the larger broker dealers providing fiduciary services to the clients.
It’s been a growing business for us and we’ve add an additional broker dealers to the network.
In fact if you look at a year-over-year comparison third quarter 2014 and third quarter 2013 were up about $3 million in terms of revenue.
We’ve got lots of opportunities to continue to cross-sell into these broker dealers and we also have some opportunities to add some additional broker dealers over the course in the next couple of years.
So it’s a nice sort of supplemental business for us for our fiduciary business overall and sort of a distinguishing niche for us in the trust space.
Lars you want to talk a little bit about merchant services which has been a business again for us for a long time.
Yeah.
And I think we’re all are very excited about the new relationship with [Vantiv] is really positioning ourselves to as we mentioned earlier expand the profit offering the payment solutions really have a cutting-edge technology payment platform available for customers.
But I’ll tell you in spite of that year to-date we’re up 14% on a year-over-year basis.
We’re up 6% in just linked-quarter growth in merchant services.
Frankly I see this is one of our best opportunities for fee income growth on a percentage basis on a go forward basis.
We’re much better efficient today and we’re seeing pipelines at levels that we have frankly never seen before in our company.
You also mentioned Direct Express.
We’re obviously excited about the fact that we were reselected to serve the U.S.
Treasury as their financial agent and we’re expecting that this problem will continue to grow.
We have over 5 million cards outstanding and we continue to grow a very substantial deposit base over $800 million that continues to grow.
You can see that in the – I think in slide number 24 the pricing deck -- that just continues to grow and we would expect that that trend would continue in the coming years.
Got it.
Thank you.
And my second question is the regulatory and technology headwinds that you mentioned I assumes that that’s above and beyond Karen what you mentioned is your annual technology reinvest or investment spend? And I was wondering if you could help us get a little bit more color on what you’re spending on in terms of the regulatory-related expense and the tech upgrade for next year? What that incremental expense spend would be related to those two issues? And how sticky is that in your deposit base as we think through what could carry over to 2016? Okay.
So on the regulatory and technology spend we do continue to invest in technology around cyber security around our card industry compliance as you probably know in the credit space with PCI and EMV and things like that it requires a technology investment.
On the regulatory front we’re continuing to invest in things in trust testing in the new liquidity coverage ratio so hopefully that’s gives some color.
Got it.
And are you prepare to give us a sense in what the incremental dollar spend maybe for 2015 and how sticky that could be? Yeah.
We are not prepare to give dollar amount because we are working through our budgeting process right now and setting our priorities but we will talk about it on the fourth quarter call.
Okay.
And just last one for me.
You have a significant amount of capital and your shareholders have been enjoying well about industry average in terms of your ability to return that back to them.
If we’re in scenario where we’re lower for longer and that could induce some smaller banks to be more open to selling.
I guess would you be interested and maybe taking advantage of that opportunity given how much excess capital you have or would you rather be prepared for stronger balance sheet growth as the macro bounces back? As we’ve said before we’re very comfortable with our footprint today and our geographic diversion – diversity which is one of the things that was a key strategy for us and especially when we add sterling into the Houston market here in Texas and California now has been filled out as well through an acquisition about ten years ago.
And we certainly have a good footprint in Michigan.
We will look at opportunities as they come up.
But the key is we now have that footprint that we can grow from an internal standpoint and it’s not based on the need to have to do acquisitions.
So it depends on what it is where it is and the culture and fit into what our strategy is for internal growth.
Thank you.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My question is a follow-up on the previous questions on the energy price decline and their impact.
Just hypothetically if oil prices were to stay in the low 80s what would you expect the impact on just the general Texas economy to be or if they were to drop down to the 60s? Okay.
John you want to comment on that.
Yeah.
That’s an excellent question but it’s also a very difficult one to estimate.
When I look at the statistics about the Texas economy the mining or energy business accounts for 10% to 12% of the Texas economy so there would definitely Jennifer be an impact.
How big it would be would be tough to tell.
The good news is given the economic expansion in Texas right now there’s some leeway for things to slow down a little bit and still be in a growth environment.
Yeah I would underline the diversity in the Texas market today versus what it has been a number of years ago.
Energies are very important sector certainly in the contribution but as John mentioned it is a [lower] rate today of – what’s the right word fueling the economy because of the diversity that’s out there.
So it won’t have near the impact it did 20 years ago.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
I guess on the kind of middle market trends you outlined if I think through the cycle utilization rates are up.
I think they bottomed to like 44 for you guys but still haven’t gotten back to the 50 to 55 where they were historically and we’re pretty far into the recovery and yet the deposits just keep going up.
So I know it’s a qualitative question but just when you talk to your customers and look at the data how much of this feels like it is cyclically there’s these kind of two steps forward one step back pattern to the economy and people get cautious versus how much of it do you think is secular i.e.
your customers are just going to carry more liquidity and maybe use their lines less than they did 10 years ago? I think is now as Lars comment on this too.
I think its little bit of both.
That people are being more conservative today as was mentioned earlier but also as they look forward because of what we’ve been through in the economic downturn I think customers will generally want stronger lines larger lines and also more excess liquidity than they’ve had in the past.
To be prepared for it Lars do you agree with that? No.
I think Brian is right on the mark.
I think its combination of two.
But clearly the economy going sideways the geopolitical environment health issues the healthcare cost are all contributing to equating a very cautious environment for our customers.
But I do think that they’re going to carry higher levels of liquidity on a go forward basis.
I would point out that in middle market California we did see an increase in utilization rates this past quarter which I thought was a very good sign as the California market has been lagging in terms of the economy recovery until more recently and that is our largest loan portfolio.
I guess another question on liquidity more from your perspective I guess reading to LCR documents you can see some of the penalties on commercial deposits have bigger outflows the liquidity you have to hold against lines I guess I’m still struggle little bit with you’ve an 83% loan to deposit ratio you have nearly $8 million of cash on the balance sheet and that kind of split out an 80% LCR ratio.
When you go through the details of the calculation is it some pieces of the business that are getting disproportionate penalties or is this just the way the calculation if you kind of bread and butter middle market commercial bank you need to have cash at 10% of balance sheet and you need to have a loan to deposit ratio on the 80s? Brian you’re absolutely right that the LCR ratio does treat commercial-oriented banks a little more punitively than retail-oriented banks because the outflow required in the calculation on commercial deposits is much greater than the outflow on retail deposits.
And in addition it does assume that several commercial facilities are drawn and so it just is a little bit more punitive to banks like us.
That said with our LCR ratio currently estimated at about 80%.
We feel very confident that we can easily comply starting in 2016 and it shouldn’t have a significantly impact on us.
Great.
Thank you for taking my questions Thank you.
Your next question will come from the line of John Pancari with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Morning.
Want to see if you can give us a little more color on your thoughts on the potential trend in the efficiency ratio through 2015? I mean I am sorry to beat a dead horse here on expenses but just given all of the factors you have been citing Karen around the impacts to expenses here where you are spending wanted to get a little bit of color on how we think about the efficiency ratio for the full year.
Thanks.
Thank you John.
So as you know we have been focused on moving our efficiency ratio toward our target below 60% for the last several years.
And over the last several years we have successfully been able to offset the headwinds that we have been facing from the low rate environment from the decline in accretion and from increased regulatory expenses to be able to move that efficiency ratio down.
We are not ready to give our outlook for 2015 mainly because we are still working through the detailed process but we are being in honest in saying that we do have significant headwinds next year that we are facing and we are taking action this quarter to help partially offset it.
Okay.
All right.
And then separately around loan pricing I wanted to see if you can give us a little more color on what you are seeing in terms of loan pricing competition.
And if you could if you could provide us with some details on new money loan yields by type particularly C&amp;I versus CRE and maybe the energy portfolio as well? Thanks.
Lars.
Okay so first of all just in general I’d say we are just continuing to see competitive environment out there across all of our lines of business.
I’d characterize California geographically is the most competitive market in our footprint.
You know I should point out that if you look at the core yield on a line quarter basis the yield was down one basis point on an overall basis which I thought was a real positive for us in terms of our you know the evidence of our discipline relationship pricing approach to the market and also the mix of our business.
We are putting the resources in the right businesses and in the right markets where we can get the right kinds of growth.
In particular you mentioned you know maybe some of the businesses specifically like energy business.
We are seeing more competitors jump into the market place both bank and non-bank and that’s not putting just pricing pressure I think in the segment it’s also stretching credit structure.
So we are sticking to our strategy and we are not stretching on either one of them we’ve being very selective in that but it is a competitive market place out there.
But areas like technology and life sciences mortgage banking finance commercial real estate those were all areas that we continue I think garner nice attractive yields and we deliver a great value proposition.
We were really pleased to see small business begin to turn and begin to make contributions and that will certainly help us in our loan yields on a go-forward basis.
So we are going to manage this very carefully.
We got to manage it day to day it’s a very challenging environment but I think we are well suited to operate in this environment.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your final question will come from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Morning.
Hi good morning.
I had a couple of questions.
My first one was in terms of the recoveries that you had in your commercial mortgage portfolio in the quarter they seem to be a little outsized at $12 million compared to what you had over the last few quarters.
So if you could give us some perspective or insights into what led to the higher recovery that would be helpful? Okay John.
Yeah thanks Sameer.
Actually if you look at our recoveries over the last four or five quarters they have been pretty consistent in that 18 19 21 range.
So this quarter was frankly higher than we expected but not out of line with current trends.
Sometimes it will fluctuate between C&amp;I and CRE and this was a quarter where it did turn towards CRE.
In particular we had one large credit that was refinanced which resulted in bit of an outsized recovery for CRE.
But the overall trends have been pretty consistent at a higher level than we would have expected at this point.
Okay.
And then just switching gears in terms of your national dealer services business I think in your prepared comments you referenced the fact that the sequential decline in balances both on an average and in the period basis were partly the result of seasonality.
But given where we are at in the kind of auto lending cycle you know I am curious as to what you are seeing in your discussions with dealers as far as their appetite for building inventories going into next year or are they being cautious? There's been talk about auto lending bubbles an oversupply of vehicles some people seem to suggest so is it your view or when you talk to them what are they saying to you? Do they intend to keep inventory levels low going forward or is this really this seasonality playing out? Lars.
Yeah so frankly the point about keeping inventories low we have heard that for years in the industry but as we are attempting to make sure that you got all of the new models on your lot and we continue to see that I would tell you that from a floor plan utilization perspective we saw a 10% decline in the quarter to end the quarter.
So our dealers our customers are clearly operating consistent with the way that they have in prior quarters they are drawing down they have gone through the heavy sale season of the summer.
They are drawing down their inventories; they are seeing a higher inventory turnover and the $17.5 million annualized sales unit is helping to contribute to that.
So we would expect to see that new model builds which typically begin in November will help us grow our balances as we head towards the end of the quarter.
But I don’t see any real change in terms of the overall industry and in fact I see the confidence levels of the owners at maybe the highest levels that I’ve ever seen they are making a lot of money and generating a lot of liquidity.
So the corollary to that then we should assume that you haven't changed any of your lending parameters for floor plan ending either.
In terms of LTVs or any other parameters you don't feel that you need to be more conservative there just because it seems like the environment still appears quite bullish from the standpoint of the dealers.
Yeah I that’s right.
We really haven’t changed anything.
I would tell you we are being more vigilant more just about the regulatory environment but our customers are too and we deal with mega dealers that typically have you know robust compliance consumer finance departments they are really staying on top of CFPB issues and are preparing themselves for the future but we have not changed our strategy at all.
Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would now turn the call over to Mr.
Ralph Babb Chairman and CEO for any closing remarks.
I would just like to thank everybody for their interest in Comerica and being on the call today.
We appreciate it and everybody have a good day.
Ladies and Gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Carmen.
Good morning.
And welcome to Comerica's fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of Business Bank Lars Anderson; Vice Chairman of the Retail Bank and Wealth Management Curt Farmer; and Chief Credit Officer John Killian.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC's website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our fourth quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to vary from -- materially from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statements contained in this release issued today as well as slide two of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC for factors that could cause actual results to differ.
Also the conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I will direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I'll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on slide three.
Good morning.
Today we reported fourth quarter 2014 net income of $149 million or $0.80 per share compared to $154 million or $0.82 per share in the third quarter.
Full year 2014 earnings per share were up 11% from 2013 to $3.16.
Turning to slide four and highlights for fiscal year 2014 our 2014 net income reflected lower litigation related expenses a decrease in pension expense and our continued drive for efficiency.
Also credit quality continued to be strong.
We had modestly lowered net interest income due to a decline in accretion along with the impact of the continued low rate environment and loan portfolio dynamics all of which were predominantly offset by the contribution from loan growth.
Our loan and deposit growth was solid in 2014 as average total loans increased $2.2 billion or 5% and average deposits were up $3.1 billion or 6% with increases in all business lines and all three of our major markets.
Our capital position remains strong supports our growth and provides us the ability to return excess capital to our shareholders.
We repurchased 5.2 million shares in 2014 under our share repurchase program.
Together with dividends we returned $392 million or 66% of 2014 net income to shareholders.
Our tangible book value per share increased 6% over the past year to $37.72 as we continue to focus on creating long-term shareholder value.
We recently filed our 2015 -- 2016 capital plan with the Federal Reserve which is expected to release its summary results in March.
Turning to slide five and highlights from our fourth quarter results when compared to the third quarter of 2014 average loans were up $202 million to $47.4 billion.
As expected our Mortgage Banking Warehouse business lines declined with the seasonal decrease in home sales while our dealer floor plan balances increased as auto dealers received their 2015 model inventory.
For the rest of the loan portfolio we saw modest increases in most areas led by energy and technology and life sciences.
The market remains very competitive and we continue to focus on developing enduring relationships.
Therefore we will not compromise our pricing or underwriting standards in order to hasten loan growth.
On the deposit side we continue to see broad-based growth average deposits increased $2.6 billion or 5% to $57.8 billion compared to third quarter of 2014 primarily reflecting growth in non-interest bearing deposits.
Fourth quarter net interest income increased $1 million to $415 million.
Credit quality was strong with the provision for credit losses of $2 million and net charge-offs of $1 million for the quarter.
Keep in mind our allowance methodology appropriately considers developments that may impact portfolio performance but have not yet materialized in our loan book.
Specifically related to energy while we have not yet seen adverse trends in our portfolio our allowance now contains an allocation to reflect the recent fall in oil and gas prices.
Later in this presentation Karen will provide a summary of that portfolio which reflects our long history and experience in underwriting energy credits.
Non-interest income increased $10 million to $225 million reflecting increases in customer driven fees particularly customer derivative income while non-customer income was stable.
Non-interest expenses increased $22 million to $419 million primarily reflecting a $4 million charge for certain efficiency related actions compared to an $8 million net benefit in the third quarter as well as an increase in technology-related contract labor and seasonal increases in several other categories.
Turning to slide six most U.S.
economic data at year end showed strong momentum.
We expect stronger labor markets increasing business and consumer confidence and solid consumer spending to be positive factors for the national economy in 2015.
Of course global geopolitical tensions and a cooler European economy could be headwinds for the U.S.
economy in 2015.
Taking a closer look at economic conditions within our primary footprint of Texas California and Michigan we continue to see the advantages of our geographic diversity.
The Texas economy expanded at a robust rate into the fourth quarter with 34 800 jobs added statewide in November a very healthy number.
However both oil and gas prices are down significantly and we’re seeing an energy sector slowdown.
If this continues we expect to see a drag on Texas economic activity in 2015.
Remember though the Texas economy is far more diverse than it was during the last energy downturn.
Also we have over 30 years of experience in the energy business and our expertise has been demonstrated by strong performance through a number of cycles.
We believe the geographic diversity of our footprint and the strength of the U.S.
economy outside of Texas will provide important counter balances.
Texas average loans were up 16% and deposits were up 3% compared to a year ago.
We saw broad-based improvement in the California economy in 2014.
The Northern California economy in particular has been driven by strong and widespread labor market gains in 2014.
Tighter labor markets are expected to drive wage and income growth in 2015.
Also lower prices at the gas pumps should lead to increased consumer spending.
Average loans in California were up 9% compared to a year ago while deposits were up 19%.
Michigan is an important market for us and where we have had a presence for 165 years.
Strong U.S.
job growth and rising consumer confidence is important combination for U.S.
auto sales and the Michigan economy.
In fact light vehicle sales in the fourth quarter were at the highest level in eight years.
Average Michigan loans were down slightly compared to a year ago while deposits were up 5%.
In closing we believe our diverse geographic footprint is well situated and along with our relationship banking strategy should contribute to our long-term growth assisting us in growing loans deposits and increasing fee income while we continue to manage headwinds including the low-rate environment and rising technology and regulatory expenses we remain focused on the long term.
Our conservative consistent approach to banking including credit management investment strategy and capital has positioned us well for the future.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 7 quarter-over-quarter total average loans increased $202 million.
Commercial loans were the major driver increasing $203 million or 1%.
We also had nice growth in consumer and residential mortgage loan which was offset by the continued decline in owner-occupied commercial real estate.
Looking at the portfolio as a whole mortgage banking warehouse loans were seasonally lower as anticipated by almost $200 million.
And we saw a $241 million seasonal rebound in our auto dealer floor plan loan.
For the rest of the portfolio we saw modest increases in most areas led by $160 million increase in energy and $78 million in technology and life sciences.
Similar to last quarter General Middle Market commitments grew but loans declined $137 million.
At the same time the deposits increased $372 million.
In other words we continue to see line utilization for our General Middle Market customers decline as their cash balances grew.
Period-end loans increased $885 million or 2% to $48.6 billion primarily due to $721 million increase in national dealer services.
Remember that our loans typically spike at the end of the quarter so quarterly averages are better indicator of trends.
Overall commitments as of the quarter end grew $1.1 billion and utilization increased to 48.8% from 48.2% at the end of the third quarter.
Importantly our pipeline remains solid.
Finally our loan yields shown in the yellow diamonds held steady in the quarter.
Higher accretion added 5 basis points and was completely offset by a negative residual value adjustment to assets in our leasing portfolio.
Slightly higher interest collected on non-accrual loans added 1 basis point and was offset by other factors such as higher prepayment fees improving credit quality nominal spread compressions and a mixed change in customer usage all of which were minor.
Turning to deposits on slide 8 every business line and geography posted increases resulting in average deposit growth of $2.6 billion or 5% to $57.8 billion.
This comprised a 9% increase in non-interest-bearing deposits and a 1% increase in interest-bearing deposits.
The bulk of the deposit growth was realized in the first few months of the quarter and has since been relatively stable.
Deposit pricing remained low at 15 basis points as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
Slide 9 provides details on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of mortgage-backed securities that averaged $9 billion for the quarter.
The estimated duration of our portfolio sits at 3.8 years and the expected duration under a 200 basis point rate shock extends at modestly to 4.7 years.
The yield on the mortgage-backed securities book declined 2 basis points.
We continue to reinvest prepays in Ginnie Maes with the goal of achieving a yield at or above the current portfolio yield.
However that’s been challenging in the current environment and the yields on the securities of prepaid were above the average portfolio yields.
In addition as we prepare for the new liquidity coverage ratio or LCR we added about $500 million in five-year treasuries late in the quarter.
If rates remain at the current levels we anticipate continued pressure on the average yields.
As far as the LCR we're making steady progress as we continued to work to clarify the details of the new rule and analyze our customer data.
We estimate as of quarter end our LCR ratio declines modestly from 80% where it stood at the end of the third quarter driven by a decline in our period-end deposit with the fed.
We continue to feel comfortable that we will meet the phase-in threshold within the required timeframe by adding high-quality liquid assets or HQLA over the next year to meet the 90% requirement plus above or to withstand normal volatility.
Exactly how much in liquid assets we may add will depend on our loan and deposit growth over the next 12 months.
We believe that adding securities should not have a significant impact to our earnings and the impact to rate sensitivity will depend on a fixed or floating nature of both the funding and the investment side.
As we make decisions on fixed versus floating we will remain mindful of the current rate environment with a focus on not materially or pre-maturely altering our overall upside to rising rates.
Turning to slide 10 net interest income increased $1 million.
Loan portfolio dynamics added $2 million with the increase in accretion of $6 million mostly offset by a $5 million increase in negative residual value adjustment to asset in our leasing portfolio.
We also had $1 million in higher interest paid on non-accrual loans.
Other than these effects from the loan portfolio interest earned on investment securities decreased $1 million and we had a $1 million increase in interest-paid on deposits due to higher average balances.
Also the $2.6 billion increase in average deposits at the fed added $1 million.
You may note that accretion was higher than anticipated in the quarter due to better than expected collection on a few of the credit impaired loans that we had acquired.
At this point the remaining impaired portion of the acquired portfolio is nominal and the lease residual value adjustment relates to the deterioration of residual values on a few of our customer leases.
The net interest margin decreased 10 basis points which was entirely due to average balances at the fed.
And as you can see the other impacts offset each other.
Turning to the credit picture on slide 11 net charge-offs decreased to $1 million or 1 basis point of average loans and included $19 million in recovery.
While already at very low levels criticized loans decreased $201 million and non-performing loans decreased $56 million and we are now at the lowest levels since 2007.
This resulted in an increase in the allowance coverage ratio to almost two times.
Our strong credit metrics combined with loan and commitment growth resulted in a decrease in the provision to $2 million and a small reserve builds including an additional allowance allocation for our energy book which I will discuss on the next slide.
Turning to slide 12 in our energy business where our 30 plus years of expertise has been demonstrated by strong performance through a number of cycles.
We maintain a granular portfolio with over 200 customers which are primarily well established middle-market sized companies.
We have a robust energy credit policy which includes parameters for engineering review well and field diversity and hedging requirements.
More than 95% of our energy loans are secured.
As of yearend less than 3% of the portfolio is classified as criticized with no non-accruals.
And rather than a net charge-off we had a small net recovery for the year.
Because of significant decline in oil and gas prices has just materialized in the past couple of months and our customers are generally well hedged we had seen no adverse trends in our portfolio.
However given the recent term events we increased the allowance allocation in the fourth quarter for our energy portfolio by about 60 basis points on loan outstandings.
As you can see in the lower right chart this is similar to our energy net charge-offs in 2009 when the average monthly price for oil fell below $50 per barrel for five months.
We continue to closely monitor the total portfolio as well as the energy sector and any residual impacts on the Texas economy.
Slide 13 outlines non-interest income which increased $10 million or 5% primarily driven by $6 million increase in customer derivative income due to a few large transactions and a $3 million increase in commercial lending fees due to robust year end closing activity.
We also had smaller increases in fiduciary card and foreign exchange.
Non-customer-driven income was stable.
Turning to slide 14 non-interest expenses increased $22 million with $12 million of the increase related to non-core actions.
As we signalled last quarter the fourth quarter included $4 million in non-core charges related to our continual drive for efficiency primarily associated with real estate optimization.
And as you hopefully recall we had a net benefit of $8 million from non-core actions taken in the third quarter as outlined on the slide.
Aside from these actions expenses increased $10 million with $5 million related to an increase in contract labor for technology projects much of which is associated with security and regulatory requirements and includes credit card industry compliance stress testing and implementation of the LCR.
In addition we had typical seasonal increases in consulting staff insurance and advertising expenses.
Moving to slide 15 and capital management.
As Ralph mentioned we repurchased 1.3 million shares this quarter under our share repurchase program.
Combining shares repurchased with dividends paid we returned $95 million or 63% of net income to our shareholders in the fourth quarter and $392 million or 66% of earnings for the full year.
Our tangible book value per share has steadily increased over the past several years as we continue to focus on creating long-term shareholder value.
Turning to slide 16 as we look forward into 2015 we face certain headwinds.
On the revenue side accretion will continue to decline.
There is only about $13 million yet to be realized which we expect to recognize in small increments each quarter over the next several years.
Accretion contributed $34 million in 2014 and we expect only $4 million to $6 million in 2015.
On the expense side we expect rising regulatory technology and pension expenses in 2015.
Related to pension expense new mortality tables were released by the Society of Actuaries last year.
And with the fall in long-term rates our discount rate in the pension was set at 4.28% down from 5.17% at year end 2013.
Both the decline in the discount rate and the increase in mortality assumptions resulted in an increase in the pension liability and annual expense.
Particularly given the permanent shift in mortality assumptions we elected to make a $350 million contribution to the plan at the end of the year.
The expected returns on the investment of this contribution helped substantially offset what would have been a larger pension expense increase.
As a result we expect our annual pension related expense to be about $46 million or about $7 million more than 2014.
Project-related technology expenses are anticipated to increase over $30 million to approximately $100 million in 2015 much of the increase is regulatory-driven.
Aside from the technology component we project regulatory-related expenses to increase by about $8 million driven primarily by staff additions.
In total regulatory-related expenses including technology are expected to double from over $25 million in 2014 to over $55 million in 2015.
While we continue to manage through these headwinds we remain focused on the long-term and building profitable enduring relationships with our customers as we have for the past 165 years.
Turning to slide 17 and our outlook for full year 2015 compared to full year 2014.
Overall assuming continuation of the current economic environment we expect our average loans to grow about the same pace as 2014.
We believe we will see typical seasonality throughout the year in our dealer and mortgage banker businesses.
And if oil and gas prices remain at current level we expect energy loan may increase in the near-term as capital market tightened and decline over the course of the year as companies adjust their cash flow need.
Also keep in mind that the pace of loan growth slowed in the second half of 2014.
Finally competition remains stiff across all of our businesses and we fully intend to maintain our loan pricing and credit discipline.
We expect our net interest income to be relatively stable assuming no rise in interest rate.
As I mentioned on the previous slide the accretion decline is a significant headwind as we expected to be about $30 million lower in 2015.
We believe that asset yield are close to stabilizing.
However given the fact we started 2014 at higher yield on a year-over-year basis they should be down again assuming no rise in rate.
We expect a positive effect from the growth in earning assets to approximately offset the continued pressure from the low rate environment and the decline in accretion.
As far as the provision we expect the continuation of the current credit environment.
However given the very low provision we had in 2014 we expect our provision in 2015 to be higher consistent with modest net charge-offs and in conjunction with loan growth.
The impact from the decline in oil and gas prices on our energy book is difficult to predict.
But remember our energy business strategy is built to withstand the typical volatility you see in the sector.
Again we've been in the business for over 30 years and have weathered a number of cycles.
Overall we expect non-interest income to be relatively stable with growth in fee income as we continue to focus on cross-sell opportunities particularly with card and fiduciary services.
Mostly offset by continued regulatory impact on letters of credit derivative and warrant income.
Lastly non-interest expenses are expected to be higher.
As I discussed on the previous slide we anticipate increases in technology regulatory and pension expenses in 2015.
Also we will likely see the typical inflationary pressures on expenses across the Board.
Remember that our first quarter typically includes higher incentive comp and payroll taxes as a result of seasonality.
Of course we continue to focus on driving efficiencies for the long-term.
For example the actions taken in the past two quarters are expected to result in run rate savings of about $12 million to $14 million by year end 2015.
Finally turning to slide 18 well our outlook does not assume a rise in rate we would like to remind you that we believe our balance sheet remains well-positioned for an eventual rate rise.
On the left side of the slide we run a simulation using the implied forward curve for 30-day LIBOR the rate to which we are most sensitive.
As you can see the forward curve assumes an increase in short-term rates in the middle of the year with 30-day LIBOR reaching 65 basis points in the fourth quarter.
In this illustration which incorporates the dynamic balance sheet assuming historical relationship our net interest income would increase about $45 million for the full year.
The right side of the slide provides our standard asset liability case and shows that a 200 basis point increase in rate over a one year period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in a benefit to net interest income of about $225 million.
We also show several alternative assumptions to our standard case including the pace of deposit loan and rate changes and in all cases we remain well-positioned for rising rates.
In closing we are pleased with our fourth quarter and 2014 results including broad-based average loan and deposit growth and strong credit quality.
We continue to manage through the headwinds arising from the continuing low rate environment declining accretion and increasing regulatory and technology demand.
As we look forward to the year ahead we remain keenly focused on the long-term and the things we can control such as growing loan and deposits along with managing expenses as we make necessary investments.
We expect that as the economy continued to improve and the potential for a rate rise nears our revenue picture looks like brighter.
In the meantime we believe our relationship banking strategy combined with our diverse geographic footprint will continue to assist us in building long-term shareholder value.
Now we would like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill.
Good morning Scott.
Good morning guys.
Let’s see Karen I appreciated the commentary on the allocation for the energy fees.
Can you just clarify to the extent if you can is that the only reserve allocation for the energy portfolio or is that roughly I guess $20 million or so is that the only reserves within energy at this point? Yeah.
No.
The allocation that we made is an increase to our standard reserve that we got against the energy portfolio so the 60 basis point is an increase.
Okay.
Okay.
Perfect.
So there was some amount that was there before okay.
Correct.
And then Ralph I was hoping that you could just speak kind of qualitatively when you talk with your customers specifically in Texas about the sort of the potential bleed out of energy into other sectors how they are sort of planning for the year? And then if you could conversely discuss what you are seeing from your Michigan customers as well I mean presumably lower energy cost should be more of a benefit to them? So if you could sort of distinguish between those two and give any color on how your customers seem to be planning for the year please? I’ll give a couple of comments on that Scott then I’ll ask Lars to chime in as well from what he is hearing with the customers.
But I think at this point what you are seeing is that it hasn't been down at this level long enough for people really to come to conclusions about what impact it may have and everybody's watching.
And going into the downturn in the energy prices you’ll remember that we had a very conservative environment out there for our customers that we’ve talked about in the past where people are being very cautious about investing for the future making good money and doing very well.
But still concerned about the overall economic situation not just as we were just talking energy cost but what’s going to happen longer term.
And so we haven't seen really a big change in turning into that investment for the longer term.
Lars do you want to add to that? Yeah.
Hi.
I don’t want to repeat what you just said so I think it’s entirely accurate and obviously in Texas it is too early to read.
There is clearly a multiplier effect out of the energy portfolio.
The Texas market is very diversified only 15% of it is energy.
So love to see how it plays out.
Our customers are obviously aware of what’s going on.
They are going to make the appropriate adjustments and we’ll be working with them closely.
But we feel confident about our continued ability to grow in Texas with very diversified group of businesses.
And regarding Michigan though in particular the second part of your question.
Frankly I’ve heard some optimism from customers.
I must say it’s anecdotal at this point because it is a little bit early.
But those industries that are energy reliant where this can benefit their gross margins and clearly continue to strengthen the auto industry that’s all a good thing for -- I think for the Michigan market.
Okay.
That sounds good.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette Woods.
Good morning Brian.
Good Morning.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up related to energy.
So I guess thinking about the actual loan balances themselves it looks like in the quarter you did see an increase of about $160 million on average three of the last four fourth quarters there has been that kind of an increase.
I guess was there any of this just seasonal or was this anything that which draws on lines as some of those energy companies maybe have gotten into a little bit of weakness because of the drop in oil? So is -- can you maybe comment on the growth you saw in the quarter versus normal seasonal activity? Lars? Yeah.
So Brain I think it really goes back to Ralph’s comments I think it’s a little bit early in terms of what we would read into that.
It’s continued to be obviously a healthy industry throughout most of the year.
But we would expect that over the coming quarter that companies would begin to adjust their cash budgets CapEx and certainly make adjustments there.
If we do see energy prices remain depressed for an extended period of time.
In fact if you look at page 12 of the earnings deck and look back to 2009 we saw energy - oil prices in particular around $50 of barrel for a number of months.
You saw I think about four to five months of sequential declines in the energy portfolio.
However that reversed and came back as energy prices did begin to recover.
So we see it as a great long-term business one we’ve been in a long time.
We have a very robust process built around it and a lot of experience with great customers and even better bankers and we think that we will do exceptionally well.
And maybe just as follow-up to that I guess thinking about I guess reassessing the borrowing base and the price tag quarterly.
I guess any impact in the quarter of any of lines that you may have reduced to your customers during the quarter because of the drop in oil and any to the upstream oil field services companies that you may have actually pulled back on their available credit? John you want to take that? Sure.
Hello Brian.
Hi John.
No.
Not yet because the decline is relatively recent and frankly hasn’t been reflected in financial information yet.
Over the next few months we will be receiving fourth quarter and annual financial statements in many cases as well as updated engineering reports and information on our customers’ plans for 2015.
That will allow us fully underwrite each credit and then update our risk ratings as appropriate over the first half of the year.
It’s important to remember that prices are only one of many factors that determine a company’s risk profile.
We also have to look at changes in reserves hedging management strategies to reduce costs asset sales or purchases for example and overall line utilization as well so it all gets factored together.
Okay.
And I know you guys have talked about the hedging that’s in place on E&amp;P side.
So I guess it’s one my two a follow-up question there and then I will get off go back in the queue.
But are you seeing anything in the oil field services portfolio right now that is concerning for you and I will get back in the queue? Thank you.
Yeah.
The energy services portfolio Brian is about a $600 million portfolio for us.
So it’s 1.2% of Comerica’s overall portfolio.
Most of it is larger companies much the same profile as our E&amp;P portfolio.
For example over 90% of those are [SNCs] [ph].
Also over 90% are secured.
So as we take a look at that portfolio we are hearing of pricing pressure beginning to be put on these companies by E&amp;P companies.
And as you know services is often the first time the first segment to feel some impact.
But at this point in time the portfolio is very clean.
Over the last several years we’ve averaged 6 basis points even going through the last downturn.
So we are feeling pretty comfortable but watching it very closely.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Morning Erika.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a question on expenses.
Karen thank you for going over in details some of the expense headwinds you are facing.
But I just wanted to make sure I understood the magnitude of increase for 2015.
On slide 16 you lay out about $47 million of year-over-year expense headwinds but will that be offset by the $12 million to $14 million that you noted from cost savings on slide 17? Yes Erika.
So we did outline the headwinds on slide 16 and we did take actions those in the third and fourth quarter in ‘14 to help reduce the run rate expenses going forward by about $12 million to $14 million which should be phased in 2014 and fully achieved by 2015 and fully achieved by year end 2015.
So the $12 million to $14 million by the end of the year should help offset.
But keep in mind that we do also have normal inflationary increases on expenses in things like occupancy expense merit expense et cetera.
Got it.
And I’m sorry to ask another question on energy but in terms of your guidance for the provision and the 60 basis points of allowance increase your energy portfolio? Is that contemplates energy prices staying here for the full year? And is sort of the message from the previous question you clearly or proactively adjusting for energy prices which is actually the first time we have heard about it this earning season? But your next evaluation is really when these statements come in -- these financial statements come in and engineering reports come in in terms for your next decision to potentially add to your allowance? John do you want to take that.
Sure.
Let me start with how we look at the allowance that we did allocate for energy.
We look at the portfolio in a number of different ways.
We used some basic models and stress tests and applied various price levels to develop a range of possible outcomes.
We also took a look at our historical migration and loss patterns and within that range of outcomes we used our best judgment based on what we know at this time.
So going forward Erika we will of course continue to monitor this very closely and adjusted as appropriate spending upon the environment at that time.
Got it.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Maybe I will start just a pile on to the energy question first again.
Regarding you guys now receiving the 4Q financial statements? Can you walk us through exactly what you [fourth quarter] [ph] or more recently to assess the risk to the statement like you just applied this trust model.
Did you sit with customers? What exactly was done in the quarter? Okay.
John? Yeah.
So obviously we are talking to our customers on a daily and weekly basis and we are taking a look at what their -- how they are reacting to the marketplace.
For example they are telling us that at this time CapEx plans for 2015 are being cut in some cases as small as 20% and some cases as large as 50%.
We are also seeing a more acutely in December and January we are seeing drilling rigs declined as well.
As the number of drilling rigs in production and in drilling come down the growth in the supply curve will bend and as that happens as we go forward in 2015 hopefully demand and supply will come back in the balance and prices will rise from whatever they’ve bottomed out at here.
So we are in constant contact with our customers and monitoring it closely.
You might also just update how we look at the credits in a normal sequence in the reserve? So we look at our reserves in a couple of different ways as you know the biggest section the biggest portion of Comerica's total reserve is a quantitative piece which is based on a statistical analysis and applies a standard loss factor to every loan in our portfolio that is determine on a pool basis given its risk rating.
And then of course if something deteriorates since they generally the non-accrual area we look at those on individual collateral basis and come up with an individual reserve.
And then the last piece would be a qualitative reserve that we have as you have heard from Karen has added about 60 basis points on the energy portfolio in addition to the standard loss factor reserve that we already have on the energy portfolio.
But John when you do your reserve analysis is it essentially just a waiting game for this you to drop given the hedges we are predicting for now but eventually will run out? I think we've been consistent in Scott -- Steven saying excuse me that as the key factor here is how low prices go and how long they stay low? The longer and the lower the things go the more uncertainty there is.
There is no question about that.
That's why we thought it was prudent conservative thing to do to add the qualitative reserve to the allowance at this point in time.
Did you get the follow-up in the coming quarter on? In the coming quarters we will continue to get additional information more detailed information and of course we will know the path of prices at that point.
And this is normal information you look at? Absolutely.
Analysis.
Okay.
And maybe to shift gears just a follow-up on Erika’s question expenses.
So you are flagging the $12 million to $14 million of offset towards the end of the year but that’s it does that imply that’s it there is nothing else? And secondly what do you consider typical inflationary pressure? That $12 million to $14 million of offset yes is what we -- the actions we have taken that should help us partially offset the headwinds for next year.
And in terms of typical inflationary pressure you can think of that in terms of typical inflation 2.5% 3% on certain line item.
Okay.
Just a technical question why is the attach rate being guiding -- guided a bit higher given it looks like the guidance you apply playing lower earnings for next year? Thanks.
Because of how we deal with the tax credits we are trying to make the guidance simple for you and it’s merely that.
Okay.
Thanks for all the color.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Terry McEvoy with Sterne Agee.
Good morning Terry.
Good morning.
Just wondering to the drop in oil and the potential impact on those borrowers impact how you approached CCAR and capital returns in 2015? When we look CCAR part of that is stress testing and what part of it is stress testing certain portfolios like energy.
So I would say that our severe cases in stress testing would include much more severity than what we’re seeing today in oil and gas prices.
And then just as a follow-up the $160 million increase in energy loan how much of that business if any let’s say last year would have gone to the capital markets.
And did you actually see the benefit of the capital markets closing down for those borrowers and thus using balance sheet lenders like yourself.
Does that -- has that actually occurred or do you just think that is a potential going forward? Lars? Yeah.
So Terry I think that there is no question about it.
It’s a tightening of a debt capital markets had an impact on the increase for me to peg it exactly would be a frankly a guess.
But I can tell you from just our conversations with customers that they are clearly looking more towards senior debt facilities to carry their debt at this point.
And of course they are in a process right now putting in place their contingency plans for either sales of assets using access liquidity to de-lever in such a go-forward basis.
Right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Justin Maurer with Lord Abbett.
Good morning.
Good morning guys.
Sorry on the energy thing again.
Can I -- throughout a hypothetical to Steve’s question about borrowing based determination is if a -- I'm sure the answers it depends but I’ll ask anyway.
If a borrower shows up today and as you know it’s in reasonably good shape and has x amount of availability according to last borrowing base determination but that’s when prices were 50% higher or 100% higher I guess.
How do you guys handle that? Do you -- my understanding is some credits allow for kind of one intermittent redetermination between six-month periods? Is that pretty unilateral or is that more credit specific? The general rule that we see in the industry is that we have two redeterminations per year usually based in the fall and then the spring late fall and spring.
And then often times the bank group will have the option to do one more during the year to use at its discretion but that's not used very often.
So the basic is two redeterminations a year.
And frankly what we would do say in spring is as we get the company plans as we get the updated engineering reports which have complete reserve description complete hedging picture we factor all of that in and we redetermine as a bank group what the revolving line of credit should be.
If we end up with an over-advanced piece to the outstandings there are couple of different alternatives that could happen.
First if the customer is fairly liquid and many of our customers are they may just pay off the over advance.
We have also seen customers pledge additional collateral from time to time to close the gap.
And then the last alternative would be to put the over advance on some kind of an amortizing basis usually over the near-term say six months to a year.
So do you guys -- John do you guys feel like there is less flexibility say between now and April 15th or May 1st by the time you get the financials in and reunderwrite with it a new borrowing base to the extent somebody shows up at the window and want to borrow or is there the ability to “have a conversation” even absent the updated financial as such? While there is always the ability to have a conversation and we certainly would.
However I would point out to you again referring you back to slide 12 in the slide deck and look at 2009.
That’s the last time prices declined like this and stayed low for a while.
And it's pretty interesting to see that our outstandings fell for six quarters in a row through 2009 and into 2010 because our management team do the appropriate thing.
They are looking to reduce costs wherever they can including interest costs.
Right.
Got it.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Good morning Gary.
Good morning.
I did have one more follow-up on energy and Karen I think you would reference and it’s been reference since then the steep drop in prices back in the ‘08 ‘09 timeframe that was followed of course with pretty sustained period of rise in oil prices.
Could you give us a sense of as you talk your internal experts and customers what your working assumptions are with regard to how low prices could go whether it’s transitory or whether it's a longer term decline? John? Sure.
Actually we firmly believe as a company that we cannot predict prices.
So it would be disingenuous for me to try to speculate about where we think the bottom might be or were we think the demand and supply curves might rebalance things as we go forward.
What I will say is we try to manage the business over the years and have for 30 years for all of the ups and downs that we see in what is typically a very cyclical and sometimes volatile industry.
So we try to manage knowing that to begin with.
Customer by customer.
Customer by customer.
Right.
So as a follow-up to that if you managed it on that basis have you then looked at I guess the implications for the broader economy in Texas as it relates to other sectors that could have a secondary tertiary impact from lower energy prices? So when you look at the overall and I think Lars made a comment when he was talking a few moments ago.
Today energy while a very important business in Texas is about less than 15% of the GDP of Texas.
Also it’s about 2.5% if I remember the numbers right of deployment.
And you get the offset of lower energy prices on the other side which is an earlier question was talking about benefits a lot of our other customers as well.
So unlike it was years ago where it was a significant percentage it’s not today.
And as John was mentioning the way it is underwritten and the way our customers have behaved in the past are very important as to the outlook.
Yeah.
I may if you don’t mind just tag on to that.
You have to keep in mind that as you look at the Texas economy the automotive industry has expanded significantly in the state transportation petrochemicals.
And that’s not even including the impact on consumers in a state with a population of 28 million people within immigration.
So this could all be positives for us.
Guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Good morning Ken.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just on slide 12 I think you made a good point back in the ’09 2010 time that your energy loans went down.
I calculated right about 36%.
How much are you expecting current energy loans of the $3.5 billion to go down in your guidance of roughly 5% loan growth next year? So in our guidance Ken we did say that energy loans could increase in the near term along with potential less access to capital markets for our customers.
But over the longer-term in the year they could decline if oil and gas prices stay where they are or get lower.
Sorry.
Just to clarify so are you saying loan? Your guidance includes energy loans going up or energy loans going down for 2015? So again near term could see an increase.
Longer-term could see a decline.
On average that would mean that the balances could remain about stable or slightly declining.
Got it.
Understood.
Okay.
Okay.
Perfect.
And just second question on energy.
Is there a specific type of customer that you are actually willing to lend to currently in energy versus loan or energy loan categories that you actually don’t want to lend to given $50 oil? Lars you want to take that.
Yeah.
Frankly I don’t think our strategy has changed.
We are focused on larger independent energy companies that have liquid positions that are well hedged with experienced management teams.
In most cases have been the road to cycles many of them with us and so none of that has changed.
But you think the metrics on the valuations the borrowing basis those have clearly shifted and we are taking those into consideration obviously as we are underwriting the credit opportunities.
In the second largest segment of energy which would be services the same thing applies.
We are dealing with a larger stronger companies and we will continue to look at those even in this time.
But we are clearly being very sensitive to the overall condition of the energy market and what direction energy prices are going.
So hopefully that’s helpful to you in terms of lower insight.
It is.
And then one final question.
Do you guys still have any loans that were underwritten under the Sterling underwriting standards or is everything being converted to your standards? In terms of the energy portfolio Ken or overall? Energy specifically.
Yeah.
They are very minimal.
In many cases we had overlap of customers.
And frankly the balance of them that may have been less strategic those have continued to run-off over a period of time.
So we feel very comfortable with the portfolio we have today.
Great.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
You want to add to that? Yeah.
Ken I’d just add very briefly.
This is John.
Sterling had a very small energy portfolio.
When we early on absorbed it into Comerica Energy Group.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
Wanted to see if you can give a little bit more detail on the initial draws Karen that you cited that you could see in the energy book initially in '15 can you help us with the magnitude that you’re expecting? It sounds like it could be about equivalent to the growth in the portfolio that you expect later in the year.
Is that fair? Very difficult to say.
And when we gave our loan outlook we focused on the total portfolio.
And I think that’s what I would keep pointing you back to where we expect continued growth that’s similar to 2014.
We are mindful of what could happen to our energy growth but very difficult to say the magnitude because there is too much uncertainty.
Right okay.
And then in terms of how you’re reserving for those initial draws that you expect or how you will be can you talk about how that differs like so the allocation that you likely assumed to those draws versus your reserve allocation that you have been providing to your energy credits? John? So let’s say that couple of those draws came here in the first quarter before we have all the information that we need to update each individual credit.
Those additional draws would get our standard loss factor reserve allocation.
But it’s important to say that as we move through the first and second quarter and we get the information we need we will update our risk ratings on an individual company by company basis.
And those draws would then be subject to any changes that may bring.
Okay.
All right.
And then regarding your 3.3 billion in energy Shared National Credits how much of those are considered leverage loans? It’s a little bit under $500 million that’s between $450 million and $500 million.
And that’s by the FDIC definition which is more expensive as you know.
Okay.
All right.
And then of your criticized energy portfolio are any of those leverage loans? And then separately how does that break out between E&amp;P and service? I don’t have the breakdown between E&amp;P and service on the criticized loans.
I would say the criticized loans are less than 3% of the energy portfolio.
And my intuition tells me that most of those are E&amp;P credits not services credits.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Dave Rochester with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning Dave.
Good morning guys.
You had mentioned recently you aim to grow debt and capital structure over the longer term to may be 20% of assets or liabilities I guess.
Given that longer term rates are pretty low now I was just wondering how much debt you are assuming you are going to add this year that’s baked in your NII guidance at this point? Karen? Yeah.
We did talk about the fact that we will need to add wholesale funding to our balance sheet as we work to be compliant with the liquidity coverage ratio by the end of the year.
How much in wholesale funding or how much in HQLA we will need to add will depend on our balance sheet movement over the next 12 months.
It’s very difficult to give you a number.
It’s a fluid situation that we’ll continue to monitor and keep track of.
So right now there is maybe nothing in your numbers at this point or in your guidance? Our guidance does include becoming compliant with LCR by adding high-quality liquid assets and adding wholesale funding but we expect overall that the balance of that should be relatively neutral to the bottomline.
Okay.
And then back on energy one more time sorry you mentioned increasing that reserve on your oil book by 60 basis points I was just wondering what your reserve ratio was in that portfolio at a peak in that 2009 cycle or at least how that compares to today’s level? I do not have the 2009 peak off the top of my head but when you take our standard reserve as it sits today and add in the 60 basis points we’re at about 1.4 to 1.5 total reserve on the energy portfolio.
And we will continue to adjust it as appropriate going forward.
Okay.
And then should we assume that that comprehensive rebalancing you’re about to do on that energy book will probably hit entirely in the first quarter? I would honestly say probably not.
Many companies have 12/31 year ends.
It takes some time to get their financials together as well as their engineering reports.
So we’ll begin to be received that information towards the end of the first quarter.
I would say the majority of the adjustments will be done on a case by case company by company basis in the second quarter.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Good morning Jennifer.
Good morning.
One more question on energy.
Those are mostly SNCs how much -- how many of those are you the lead? Not very many.
We typically lead about 19% of our SNCs company-wide.
It would be a much smaller percentage in the energy business just because of the size of the credit needs of our customers overall.
Okay.
And on commercial real estate I know it’s not a big part of your entire loan portfolio.
But I’m curious what you’re hearing from your Texas developers and what their thoughts are on new development given the price -- oil price decline in the last couple of months? Or is it just again too early for them to shift their thinking at all? Sure.
Our commercial real estate strategy across the whole country including in Texas is a large city urban and suburban strategy.
In Texas we’re concentrated in Dallas Houston and Austin.
So I’m going to guess that you’re most concerned about Houston.
In that city we have virtually no office exposure.
Our primary product exposure in Houston is multi-family.
And as we’ve talked to our customers every week at this point we’ve not seen any softness in rents and we often get traffic counts of the number of people walking through the projects.
And they haven’t seen -- they have not seen the decline in traffic at this point.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Do you want to add anything to that Lars? Well maybe just beyond Texas in terms of the commercial real estate opportunities for us as the company if you go to the West Coast you’re continuing to see very active projects particularly multi-family Los Angeles Bay area and San Francisco.
And while commercial real estate balances remain fairly stable quarter-to-quarter you have to realize that there is a little bit of lumpiness as these projects stabilize and go to the permanent market or sell that does have an impact on outstandings quarter-to-quarter.
But our pipeline was up over $300 million linked quarter.
And frankly we feel very confident about the West Coast growth of our commercial real estate portfolio as well as in Austin Dallas Fort Worth.
Your next question is from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Good morning Bob.
Good morning.
This is [Martin Arstarsin] [ph] for Bob Ramsey.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So you mentioned that your criticized loans were about 3% this quarter.
Can you talk about the trends in energy criticizing classified assets? John? Yes.
Just to clarify the 3% was just on the energy portfolio.
They're actually just under 3%.
And the energy portfolio has been extremely clean for a number of years now.
So it's been -- I would hesitate to call it a trend as much as a very clean plateau of experience over the last several years.
And there are currently no non-accruals in that 3% criticized.
Got it.
Thank you.
And you previously mentioned that your average customer has 50% of its production hedged.
How do you evaluate the counterparty risk? And do you know who is on the other side of the hedge? Yes.
We absolutely do know who is on the other side of the hedge.
It would be typically the kind of large energy banks that you and I could list if we wanted to go down that path.
But we do keep track of that and we monitor our counterparty exposures.
And we have authorization through the appropriate loan committee levels to approve all of those exposures on an annual basis.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Good morning Ken.
Hey thanks.
Good morning Ralph.
I wanted to ask a question about loan growth just ex-energy so effect -- if energy averages this year could be flattish.
So I just wanted to get a better understanding of what you're seeing in the rest of the book in terms of growth expectations? And also within that if you can give us some color on those two most followed portfolios auto dealer and mortgage banker? Thanks.
Hey Ken our outlook does call for growth similar to 2014 and we do expect the continued seasonal patterns for both our mortgage banker and our dealer business where mortgage banker would be down more in the winter spring and dealer would be impacted in the model change over season.
In terms of the rest of the businesses we do expect a little bit more growth from General Middle Market from our technology in life sciences.
And we do expect a little bit more modest growth from our larger corporate business and our dealer business.
Okay.
And then as far as then competition and the ability to get new loans on the books Ralph’s commentary in the interval was pretty clear on not sacrificing on quality.
But any changes as far as the competition angle and are you having to pull away from certain credits because it does competition at all? Lars you want to take that.
Sure I’d be glad to.
And the market place continues to be very competitive too many banks chasing few deals and frankly we are seeing extremely focused on our disciplined credit and pricing discipline.
So I mean to be quite honest we are being highly selective in terms of our new customers and that can create a challenge.
What that means for us we have to have our bankers out making more calls being more active than the market place today.
But we’re not seeing any real relief in terms of structure or pricing that would create wind in the sales.
If I could just tag onto one additional thing that Karen pointed or made she made that I think is important to know when you think about the growth in Texas on a year-over-year basis we grew about $965 million.
Of that $965 million on year-over-year basis $360 million roughly was energy.
My point is we grew in Texas through a wide array of businesses.
Wealth managements we grew our technology in life sciences mortgage banking finance General Middle Market and the list goes on and on.
And frankly in spite some of the headwinds from energy we are going to stay very focused on having resources invested in those businesses that we can grow in this very attractive economic market.
Great point Lars.
Hey Karen one just question on the fee stuff with regards to the regulatory impacts on some of those fee items is there any change in terms of you guys pulling away a little bit more from certain areas and what the impacts are coming through in what way? So on the ones that resided derivative warrant income other credit income those two have some regulatory impacts on letter of credit for example.
The new capital and liquidity rules require that we hold more capital and more liquidity against letters of credit.
So for example we are focused on getting the right returns for that product and have increased the pricing which is resulting in some customers choosing to have left of it.
Understood thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Capital Markets.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning.
I think Lars actually addressed my question or part of it with his commentary.
But just to parse that a little bit the discussion around competition because I look at the financial supplement page 19 I look at your rates on the loan portfolio.
And even if you adjust to the effect of the accretion benefit and then the offsetting impact on the lease residual it looks like the rates held in at least sequentially and they were pretty stable.
So I was curious I mean you want to maintain your pricing discipline yet seem to be generating relatively healthy levels of growth.
So what is the other X factor here I mean from a competitive standpoint are you easing terms in terms of LTVs offer to customers? I mean how should we think about that? Because again it’s a highly competitive environment if you reference then yet your rate seem to be holding in quite well.
So just some additional perspective would be helpful.
Yes.
So while we would like to have robust loan growth in the marketplace what I’m really focused on is having smart growth.
Growth that compliments those underwriting and pricing discipline yet frankly compliments our relationship banking strategy.
And I think that’s been very very well received in the marketplace.
As you pointed out we really are proud that in spite of the competition in the marketplace that loans spreads have held for three quarters in a row.
We saw loan yields hold for over the past two quarters.
And yes we continue to chip way the marketplace and improving market share.
And that’s what we are about.
Staying with our strategy don’t overreach and make sure they we are well positioned for the long halt and that’s what we’re going to continue to do.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
In terms of -- specifically your dealer floor plan inventory the loans I mean when you talked to the dealers do you have a sense for what they plan to do in 2015? I mean are they looking for increased inventory levels or managing those down given some concerns about kind of the auto market in terms of which loans are being made? Do you see that being fairly stable? How would you in your discussions with dealers how would you characterize their appetite for building and managing inventory? Right.
So when I think about the marketplace that we’ve play which is more than mega dealers the dealers that have half a dozen or so points to sale and up.
Probably two things really come to mind that somewhere maybe helpful.
First of all we are continuing to see consolidation in the industry and we’re as frequently on the acquiring side as we are on the selling side just because of the deep relationships that we have with our customers.
So I think that puts us in a -- I think that puts us in a good position.
But as Ralph mentioned earlier if we continue to see that on a national basis that auto sales continue to strengthen.
These mega dealers are going to want to continue to expand our inventories because if you look at a turn on the inventories they continue to be at very healthy levels against the historic norms.
And every time they’ve thrown that inventory they make money.
And so we want to be there with them.
I’m hopeful that we can continue to expand as their inventories continue expand with a strengthening auto industry.
And that we are on the acquiring side of a consolidating industry.
Okay.
Terrific.
Thank you.
Thank you.
If there are no other question at this time I will now turn the conference back over to Mr.
Ralph Babb for any closing remarks.
Thank you all for joining us today and for your interest in Comerica.
And I hope everybody has a good day and Happy New Year.
Thank you again for joining us today.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Ma’am you may begin.
Thank you Regina.
Good morning.
And welcome to Comerica’s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Vice Chairman of The Business Bank Lars Anderson; Vice Chairman of The Retail Bank and Wealth Management Curt Farmer; and Chief Credit Officer Pete Guilfoile.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC’s website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our first quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to vary materially from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statements contained in this release issued today as well as slide two of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC for factors that can cause actual results to differ.
Also the conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on slide three.
Good morning.
Today we reported first quarter 2014 net income of $134 million or $0.73 per share compared to $149 million or $0.80 per share in the fourth quarter and $139 million or $0.73 per share in the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to slide four and highlights from our first quarter results average loans were up $3.1 billion or 7% compared to a year ago.
Relative to the fourth quarter average loans grew $790 million or 2% with growth across all of our markets.
Average loans in our Energy line of business increased about $200 million compared to the fourth quarter peaking in February and then began declining as customers adjusted their cash flow needs and were able to tap the capital markets.
Average loan growth was also driven by increases in Technology and Life Sciences National Dealer Services general Middle Market and Small Business.
Our bankers are focused on developing long lasting relationships with customers in a very competitor market as we maintain our pricing and credit discipline.
Average deposits were $57 billion up $4.2 billion or 8% relative to a year ago.
Compared to the fourth quarter deposits declined $770 million or 1% following the robust deposit growth we saw in the fourth quarter.
Period end deposits of $57.6 billion were up slightly from year-end.
In further comparing our first quarter results to the fourth quarter net interest income was relatively stable at $413 million and credit quality continued to be strong.
Net charge-offs remained low at $8 million or 7 basis points in the first quarter.
At this point in the cycle our energy portfolio continues to perform well with only modest negative credit migration.
However in light of the fact that oil and gas prices remain depressed we expect that our criticized loans may increase from current very low levels as the year progresses.
In fact our robust allowance methodology resulted in an increase to our reserve for energy exposure including the qualitative component in the first quarter.
Overall we had a modest increase of $5 million in our total allowance for credit losses and an increase in the related provision to $14 million.
Our energy customers are generally decreasing their expenditures and tapping the capital markets among other actions to help mitigate the impact of lower oil and gas prices on their businesses.
We are actively engaged with our customers assisting them as they navigate the cycle.
Our deep understanding of the sector and our customers is a key component of how we have managed this business successfully for more than 30 years.
Turning to non-interest income and expense contractual changes to a card program resulted in a change to the accounting presentation of the related revenue and expense causing a $44 million increase to both.
Excluding this impact non-interest income decreased $13 million primarily due to lower derivative activity and the typical decline in first quarter commercial lending fees.
Excluding the change in accounting presentation for a card program non-interest expenses decreased $3 million primarily reflecting lower occupancy and consulting expenses which were partially offset by a seasonal increase in compensation expense.
Our capital position continues to be solid.
Share repurchases under our equity repurchase program combined with dividends returned $95 million to shareholders in the first quarter.
Last month we announced the results of our company run stress test and the Federal Reserve did not object to our capital plan and contemplated capital distributions.
Our 2015 capital plan includes up to $393 million in equity repurchases for the five-quarter period that ends in the second quarter of 2016.
The plan further contemplates a 1% increase in Comerica’s quarterly dividend to $0.21 per common share a 5% increase over the current dividend rate.
The dividend proposal will be considered by our board later this month.
Turning to slide five and a look at our primarily markets Texas payroll job growth has slowed in February and the weekly oil and natural gas rig count numbers continue to decline into March.
We expect to see more of evidence of a downshift in the Texas economy in the months ahead as a result of the drop in oil prices.
That being said the Texas economy is diverse and our business is concentrated in the major metropolitan areas.
We believe our extensive knowledge of the energy industry together with the geographic diversity of our footprint and the strength of the U.S.
economy provide important counter balances.
Texas average loans and deposits were both up 2% relative to the fourth quarter.
Our most recent California economic index has shown 10 straight months of growth.
Jobs in California increased by 3.2% for the 12 months ending in January outpacing the U.S.
as a whole.
The steady and strong performance of California has been a major benefit to the U.S.
economy.
Average loans in California grew 3% in the quarter and average deposits declined following very robust activity in the fourth quarter while period end deposits were up 5% from year end.
Our most recent Michigan economic index has shown two straight months of gains.
We expect labor market conditions to continue to improve in 2015 providing a broadening base of support for the Michigan economy.
Average loans and deposits in Michigan each increased 1% in the first quarter.
Finally we believe we continue to be well-positioned to benefit from a raising rate environment.
We remain focused on the long-term and carrying out our relationship banking strategy which has served us well over many cycles.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to slide six quarter-over-quarter total average loans increased $790 million or 2%.
Commercial loans were the major driver increasing $699 million or 2%.
Based on the Fed’s H8 data our average total loan growth outpaced the large U.S.
commercial bank which grew 1% from January 1st to April 1st.
We had average loan growth in each of our markets and most of our business lines including Technology and Life Sciences National Dealer Services general Middle Market and Small Business.
In addition as anticipated we saw a $208 million increase in average loans in our Energy line of business which peaked mid-quarter and has since been declining.
In fact at quarter end balances in that line of business were essentially flat from year-end.
Commitments for the portfolio as a whole were stable as of quarter end and utilization increased slightly to 50% from 49% at the end of the fourth quarter.
Importantly our pipeline increased.
Our loan yield shown in the yellow diamond declined 3 basis points in the quarter.
Negatively impacting loan yield was lower accretion as well as the decrease in prepayment fees and interest collective on non-accrual loans.
This was partly offset by the negative residual value adjustment to assets in our leasing portfolio that was recorded in the fourth quarter and not repeated in the first.
Otherwise loan yields were relatively stable with the benefit of a slightly higher LIBOR offset by nominal spread compression and a mix change in customer usage.
Turning to deposit on slide seven following a very robust and seasonally high average deposit growth of $2.6 billion in the fourth quarter average deposits declined $770 million in the first quarter.
Much of the decline came from our U.S.
banking business though we had small decreases in a number of other business lines.
Deposits declined in January which is typical at the beginning of the year and have since been growing steadily.
Period end total deposits increased $84 million to $57.6 billion and deposit pricing has remained consistently low at 15 basis points as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
Slide eight provides detail on our securities portfolio which primarily consists of mortgage backed securities that averaged $9.1 billion for the quarter.
The estimated duration of our portfolio sits at 3.6 years and the expected duration under 200 basis-point rate shock extends it modestly to 4.5 years.
In the current environment we expect to continue to see prepays in the $300 million to $500 million range and minor pressure on the average yield as you can see in the yellow diamonds on the slide.
As far as the liquidity coverage ratio or LCR we are making progress as we clarify the details of the new rule and analyze our customer data.
We estimate as of quarter end our LCR ratio was approximately 80%.
We continue to feel comfortable that we will meet the phase-in threshold within the required time frame by adding high quality liquid assets or HQLA over the year to meet the 90% requirement also buffer to withstand normal volatility.
Exactly how much in liquid assets we add will depend on our loan and deposit growth over the remainder of the year.
We believe that adding securities should not have a significant impact to our earnings.
And as we said before we will remain mindful of the current rate environment as we make funding and investment decisions with the focus on not materially or prematurely altering our assets sensitivity upside if rates remain low.
Turning to slide nine net interest income was relatively stable declining just $2 million.
The loan portfolio was impacted by two fewer days in the quarter causing a $7 million decline along with the $6 million increase in accretion and $4 million in lower prepayment fees and interest drawn on non-accrual loans in the quarter.
This was partially offset by the $7 million fourth quarter negative leasing residual adjustment that I mentioned earlier as well as the benefit from higher loan volume adding $6 million.
Other than these effects from the loan portfolio interest earned on investment securities increased $2 million from higher balances albeit with a slightly lower yield.
Recall that we purchased $500 million in treasuries toward the end of the fourth quarter.
We also had a $1 million decrease in interest paid on deposits and we earned $1 million less from lower average deposit balances at the fed.
The net interest margin increased seven basis points which as you can see was primarily driven by the decrease in average balances at the fed; the other impact mostly offset each other.
As you know our balance sheet is asset sensitive.
Our standard asset liability case shows that a 200 basis-point increase in rates over a one year period equivalent to a 100 basis points on average would result in a benefit to net interest income of about $220 million.
We also share in the appendix several alternative assumptions to our standard case which changes to the pace of deposit decline loan growth and rate rises.
And in all cases we remain well positioned for rising rates.
Turning to slide 10 our overall credit picture remains strong.
Our net charge-offs increased from an extremely low level in the fourth quarter and remained very low compared to history.
Our criticized loans increased slightly to $2.1 billion or 4.2% of total loan and also remained well below the historical average.
Non-performing assets declined to $288 million or only 59 basis points of loan.
Because oil and gas prices continue to be depressed we remain focused on identifying any emerging issues in our portfolio.
We are in regular contact with our customers and have been conducting comprehensive deep dive reviews identifying relationships that are potentially higher risk in a low price environment.
These reviews have included not only loans in our energy line of business but also approximately a 165 relationships amounting to about 750 million outstanding to companies in corporate banking middle market or small business that have a sizeable portion of their revenue related to the energy business.
For the E&amp;P customers we have begun to receive the engineering report and the semi-annual redeterminations are underway.
As of today we have completed approximately 45% of the redeterminations which is typical at this stage in the process.
And we expect to be complete by the end of May early June.
Of the portion that has been reviewed commitments declined about 10% and virtually none of our customers have had a deficiency or said in other way have outstandings that exceed our approved borrowing base.
In fact on average loan to values and advanced rates remain stable from the prior redetermination.
Overall our energy customers are taking the necessary actions to adjust their cash flow and reduce their bank debt such as reducing their expenses; disposing of assets; and tapping the capital market.
As of quarter end approximately 6% of the energy and energy related portfolio is classified as criticized including non-accruals of 22 million.
And there were only 2 million or 21 basis points in charge-offs.
As far as our commercial real estate exposure in Texas it too is holding up well including our portfolio in Houston which is primarily multifamily with little office exposure.
While we continue to see very few problems if oil and gas prices remain depressed we expect our criticized loans may increase from the current very low level.
For that reason and as Ralph mentioned we continue to increase our qualitative reserve allocation against energy and energy related loans in the quarter.
It is important to note that while we have increased reserves it is not clear that these will translate to losses.
We remain engaged with our customers assisting them as they focus on managing well in this low price environment.
In summary our robust allowance methodology appropriately includes a consistent approach for quantitative and qualitative considerations.
The deep dive in the energy portfolio as well as continued positive credit trends in the remainder of the portfolio are reflected in our loan loss allowance which increased 7 million to 601 million while coverage of our non-performing loans remained very strong increasing slightly to 2.2 times.
Slide 11 outlines non-interest income which was 256 million for the quarter.
However contractual changes to our card program impacted the way we present both revenues and expenses resulting in a $44 million increase to both the non-interest income and non-interest expense line item.
Effective January 1st and going forward we will present this on a growth accounting basis.
The change in presentation does not impact the bottom line.
Excluding this change we had a $13 million decrease in non-interest income.
This reflected as expected a $7 million decline in customer derivative income following a few large transactions in the fourth quarter and a $4 million decrease in commercial lending fee due to less activity in the first quarter following a robust fourth quarter.
Important to note however that first quarter commercial lending fees were 5 million greater than the first quarter 2014 as we focus on increasing fee income where we can.
We also had increases in service charges on deposits reflecting a seasonal increase from annual charges collected as well as fiduciary fees while non customer driven income such as warrant income and securities gains and losses declined.
Turning to slide 12 non-interest expenses decreased $3 million excluding the $44 million change in accounting presentation.
Net occupancy expense declined $8 million largely due to the fourth quarter real estate optimization charge which was not repeated as well as minor other one-time benefits.
Consulting fees declined $3 million with the conclusion of 2015 CCAR.
Salaries and benefits expense were higher by $8 million with the seasonal effect of annual stock compensation expense and higher payroll taxes partially offset by lower healthcare costs and two fewer days in the first quarter.
We had small decreases in several other categories reflecting our continued focus on managing expenses.
The technology and regulatory headwinds we outlined last quarter are expected to ramp up from the current level.
Salaries and benefits occupancy expense and consulting fees are expected to rise throughout the year.
Moving to slide 13 and capital management as Ralph mentioned we completed our 2014 capital plan which included the repurchase of 5 million shares under our share repurchase program.
Combining the 1.4 million shares repurchased in the first quarter with the dividend pay we’ve returned 71% of first quarter net income to our shareholders.
Our 2015 capital plan includes share repurchases up to 393 million.
The plan further contemplates a $0.01 or 5% increase in Comerica’s quarterly dividend to be considered by the Board at the end of this month as we continue to steadily increase our dividend pay.
Our tangible book value per share increased to $38.47 and has been steadily increasing over the past several years as we continue to focus on creating long-term shareholder value.
Turning to slide 14 our outlook for full year 2015 is unchanged from what we provided in January and assumes the continuation of the current economic and rate environment.
We expect our average loans to grow about the same pace as 2014.
As I mentioned earlier if oil and gas prices remain at current levels energy loans may decline over the course of the year as companies adjust their cash flow needs.
However we expect that decline to be more than offset by growth in other areas.
As said before we expect our net interest income to be relatively stable assuming no rise in interest rates.
And as far as the provision given the very low level we had in 2014 we expect 2015 to be higher consistent with modest net charge-offs and in conjunction with loan growth.
The impact from the decline in oil and gas prices on our energy book is difficult to predict but remember we remain focused on the emerging trends and have increased our reserve allocations the last two quarters as a result.
Overall we expect non-interest income to be relatively stable excluding the impact of the accounting presentation of a card program already discussed and which is offset in non-interest expenses.
We continue to expect lower letters of credit derivatives and warrant income which should mostly offset by growth in fiduciary and car fee.
Aside from the change in accounting presentation non-interest expenses are expected to be higher primarily due to increases in technology regulatory and pension expenses in 2015 which we outlined on the January earnings call.
In closing our extensive knowledge of the energy sector together with our geographic diversity and the strength of the U.S.
economy will assist us in weathering the energy cycle as we have done before.
We will continue to closely monitor our energy related exposure as well as any residual impact to our business.
We remain focused on the long-term and building profitable enduring relationships with our customers as we have for over a 165 years.
We believe that as rates rise our revenue picture looks brighter.
In the meantime we believe our relationship banking strategy combined with our diverse geographic footprint will continue to assist us in building long-term shareholder value.
Now we would like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question will come from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O’Neill &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
The first question was just on energy.
I wonder Karen or Pete if you can just sort of discuss more specifically the relationship between what you are doing now with the qualitative reserves you’ve taken both in the fourth quarter and then more specifically the 5 million from this quarter and how exactly that fits into what you’ve done with the redetermination? In other words you’re roughly half done with the redetermination; you had a $5 million incremental reserve.
Are those two do they kind of go hand-in-hand or are they mutually exclusive? Scott at the time of the end of the quarter we were about 30% done with the redeterminations but the picture has not changed from us being now that half way done.
And so we did reflect any risk changes credit rating changes in a quantitative portion of our reserves.
And then in the qualitative portion we had another quarter to look at the trends and to make some judgments around mostly increasing that qualitative component.
All of that is built into the $5 million increase in our reserves.
We did have credit quality improvement in the rest of the portfolio which somewhat offset the increase that we took in the energy portion.
Could you spend just another second discussing; it looks like you added roughly $750 million to the overall energy related bucket.
Maybe just a quick thought or two on exactly what drove that and I guess why weren’t they in there before just any thoughts or commentary you might have? So Scott we are continually focused on potential or emerging issues in our portfolio.
And we’ve been monitoring this energy portfolio since the cycle started to turn.
So we have been paying close attention all along to both those loans in our energy line of business and to the loans the small amount of loans that happen to be outside of our energy line of business which we mentioned.
Because of investor interest and because of our desire to be transparent we’re just providing that additional detail this quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Karen regarding the spring borrowing base reset you cited 10% reduction which is about in line with the industry media that we’re seeing so far.
With that said we’re seeing a couple of outliers that are tripping covenants and your comments indicate that’s the not the case.
I’m curious these outliers just not in your portfolio or is that the case that because the capital markets are wide open they are just able to pay down lines that’s why they’re not tripping covenants? Pete why don’t you take that? Steve I think it’s a combination of several things.
First of all most of our borrowers had a fair amount of room underneath their borrowing bases.
So as borrowing bases get adjusted downward we haven’t seen a big impact there.
Capital markets have been very available to our borrowers so that’s been helpful as well.
We’ve only had two instances where we’ve had borrowers with collateral deficiencies; and one of those was quickly rectified with the borrower going out to the bond market.
And we expect that the other one is going to be rectified fairly quickly as well.
I was curious it looks like loan balances were flat in Texas ex the growth in the energy book.
Can you talk about what you’re hearing from your Texas customers that are not in the energy sector they’re also cutting spending trimming headcount et cetera? Sure.
Lars do you want to take that? Yes I’d be glad to.
First of all when you think about the Texas market we do tend to think about energy but it’s a very diverse market.
And whether you look at Dallas you look at Houston you look at Austin and frankly you could reach different conclusions.
And as I visit those markets I hear frankly different feedbacks from them.
So we’re obviously going to be cautious in the energy space commercial real estate space and to take you on Houston and the Houston markets.
But on an overall basis we’re continuing to see pretty good activity.
I wouldn’t expect that we may see on a state wide basis the same growth rate in ‘15 that we saw in ‘14.
However we have a number of other lines of business that are very active in the marketplace and we would expect to see those grow.
General middle market in the very diverse kind of Dallas markets Austin markets Technology and Life Sciences and IT corridor Austin Small Business we’ll continue to grow wealth management commercial real estate in particular sub-market.
So there is a number of paths that we have to continue to achieve growth in the Texas market albeit at potentially a slower rate.
And I would just add Steve that our pipeline did increase and that includes Texas outside of energy.
And maybe just one final one; it was nice to see Michigan contribute at least somewhat to quarterly loan growth and we hear about lower energy prices being a positive for energy companies.
But is it actually enough to move the needle on your Michigan balances this year which are still down year-over-year? Thanks.
Yes.
You’re correct on a year-over-year basis; we’re encouraged with the past quarter.
And frankly the feedbacks that we’re getting from the Michigan market feels different than it has for frankly a long period of time.
We did see utilization rates increase.
If you look at the pipeline one of the single biggest drivers of the expansion of our pipeline was middle market Michigan.
It is interesting though you talk to one customer in the market; I was just there recently and they were really encouraged with their gross margins because their feedstock was gas; was petroleum base; was plastics yet the next customer was facing a stronger dollar and the export side creating a little bit of headwinds.
I think if you put it altogether though it’s encouraging.
I think that we have a nice opportunity for us to continue to grow in Michigan this year.
We saw utilization rates grow also in that state.
So frankly I’m looking forward to hopefully a good solid year in ‘15.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow-up on the energy question again; can you talk about the 15% of your portfolio that service in nature and how much of that portfolio been during the borrowing base redetermination? Michael did you say energy services though? Yes.
Like how many of those companies have you kind of walked through their plans and how much of the incremental provision might be related to the specifically the service sector? So as far as the energy services portfolio goes we’ve reduced 50% of the energy services portfolio since the beginning of the year and we’ve seen some migration in that portfolio which is not surprising at all.
We’ve downgraded about 50% of the risk ratings we reviewed in the services area; only about 10% of those that are in the criticized category; we had no new non-accruals no new charge offs.
So we have seen some migration but we feel very good about that portfolio.
These companies have big balance sheets; they’ve got a lot of capital a lot of liquidity their management teams have been through these downturns before and they are managing their balance sheet to become profitable in this environment where prices are lower.
So we feel good about the portfolio overall but we have seen some migration there.
And I guess the follow-up to that is you mentioned obviously increased capital markets activity; how many of your service companies are or give a sense for what proportion of your service companies are able to access the capital markets here in the past few months? And I assume that would obviously help.
I don’t think that I could answer that question specifically as to how many have accessed the capital market so far.
But we would expect that the vast majority of them would have access to buy their equity offerings.
And if maybe I could just add on there I think Pete is exactly right in his answer.
And one other thing to point out is if you look back through the last cycles our energy services portfolio from an asset quality perspective actually outperformed the overall energy line of business.
So this is a business that from a strategic perspective we’re very focused on the strongest most liquid kind of energy services companies that have veteran teams that have worked their way through some of these difficult cycles in the past.
And just one more if I can just do you have a sense for or can you remind us what percentage of production is hedged through your companies through 2015 and 2016 if you have those numbers and then if it changed quarter-to-quarter? Thanks.
Michael they’ve actually increased a little bit this quarter.
About 60% of our borrowers have at least 50% of their PDP production hedged for one year and about 45% have 50% of their PDP production hedged for two years or more.
That’s not too surprising because we saw some pretty heavy hedging activity in the fourth quarter of last year and that hedging activity is now reflected in the redeterminations that we’re doing this spring.
Great.
That’s all very helpful.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Just on the energy portfolio to reserves can you quantify how much did you actually build reserves in the energy portfolio versus how much offset do you get in other areas? Ken we aren’t going to give the details of the reserves and mainly because our total allowance is used for any and all losses.
So we feel like it may be misleading if we gave too much information on the allocation toward any one industry.
But I would tell you that we did as we mentioned how the modest increase in our qualitative effect portion; we also did see an increase in reserves on our quantitative piece.
And again that was offset by better performance in the other sectors.
I’m just worried that by not disclosing it you’re kind of on the risk of potentially leaving it open to investors’ imaginations on what it might be just given that other banks have been pretty clear about what’s their reserve build has been.
But I understand the methodology at least.
And we did last quarter give a sense of our qualitative reserve build because it was the beginning of this downturn and we did compare it at the time to the peak net charge-offs in the last cycle which were highly comparable.
And know that we’ve increased modestly since then on a qualitative portion.
And we are giving what we deem to be the more important factors of what’s going on in our portfolio including the criticized loans for both the energy line of business and energy related which are 6% of the portfolio as well as the non-accruals at $22 million and the net charge-offs we’ve seen so far of $2 million.
And then just as different question on the net interest income line I think it’s relatively stable as the guidance but this quarter at least versus our expectations is little bit stronger.
And we are thinking more of lower in the first and then higher in second half just given day count but it seems that to get to stable for the full year you kind of have to flat line NII on the dollar basis over the course of the year.
Is that the better way of thinking about NII? Yes there is obvious day count impact in both the first half and the second half of the year on net interest income.
And there are so many other factors including portfolio changes that could happen in any one quarter.
But we are obviously comfortable with the outlook that we gave on a year-over-year basis that net interest income would be relatively stable.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just a couple of quick questions maybe away from the oil patch for a second; just curious about your outlook for mortgage banker loans over the next couple of quarters.
Obviously we’re hitting the prime mortgage season.
We’ve had a little bit of a benefit in the first quarter from low rates.
Just curious as to how you’re thinking about that portfolio heading into the summer selling season.
Okay Lars? So as you saw on an average basis our balances were relatively flat but there was a lot of activity actually that went on in there.
We do typically have in the fourth quarter run off towards the end of the year a lot of activity and that continued into the beginning of the first quarter.
But you would also expect during that first quarter that particularly that this would not be quite as active a quarter as we would see as we head into the summer months.
So as I look at that business on a just kind of a quarter-over-quarter basis while it was flat you would see that those balances did continue to run off.
And frankly we would expect as we head into the summer months that we would continue to see more activity levels and that those balances potentially could rise.
Now one of the pluses as you know for Comerica is that we are very much of a purchase oriented organization; we tend to run 10% 15% higher in terms of purchase volumes versus the industry.
And with the mortgage banking association’s projection for 23% higher originations in the second quarter than the first and 10% for 2015 on an overall basis I think that that bodes well for us in the MBS portfolio.
I’d leave you with this one last point.
We’ve got some really good bankers very experienced there.
And it’s not just about the mortgage warehouse facility we’re having a lot of success in cross-sell; we have over 90% of these customers on treasury management; and we’re driving a lot of non-interest income; and we’re building the kind of relationships that Comerica’s known for.
And just a follow-up on the sale of non-accrual loans that came down quite a bit in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter was pretty elevated.
How are you thinking about those sales particularly in the current environment given all your comments about the energy portfolio issue? Should that remain at sort of a high single-digit number or are there possibilities of further sales down the road? Pete? Yes we look at sales as just one avenue that we can use to manage our problem loans.
And we don’t have any plans to sell any of our loans that are in the non-accrual category right now but it remains an avenue that we might use in the future again.
And is demand for that increasing or is that come down a bit since the decline in the oil prices? No actually there is some still some strong demand for senior debt right now because a lot of a senior debt is very well secured.
And so even on credits that are classified by the banks there’s still some strong demand for them.
Next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about some of the other national loan lines specifically CRE would have thought at this point of the cycle would be seeing a little bit better direction of growth; if you could walk through that potential.
And then also on the dealer finance business just what your general outlook is relative to the industry outlook for growth there? Okay Lars? Yes absolutely.
Maybe I’ll start with our commercial real estate.
We’re continuing to see a lot of activity there particularly on the West Coast Los Angeles Orange County LA Dallas here in Texas.
Again it’s primarily mortgage banking finance -- excuse me it’s multifamily oriented a lot of volumes there.
The linked quarter change that you saw which was pretty moderate in terms of activity was really driven by several large projects that sold both in Texas and in a West Coast and frankly is a sign of health.
You want to see these projects stabilize; you do want to see them sale and go to the permanent market.
And as you know we have a lot of activity.
I would expect that commercial real-estate would grow throughout the balance of the year on a common quarter basis.
Of course we’re up about 6%.
So we continue to grow that business and we’re going to be cautious in the markets that we need to be given the energy cycle.
But one of the strengths of our franchise is the diversity of our markets and we’re certainly going to make sure we have the resources there and we continue to grow those balances as best we can.
It’s a very competitive space I should point out in pricing we have to very attentive too.
So these developers that we’re working to -- working with we are very much focused on having more than just a credit a transaction it’s about delivering a broad array of solutions including wealth management treasury management and a number of others.
If you look at dealer from a common quarter basis that’s up 10%; it continues to ride the tide of the increasing annual sales rates which were up over 17 million units and on a linked quarter basis we were up about 3%.
Frankly I think that that’s a real plus.
Keep in mind it’s a seasonal business and you would expect the balances as you get into the summer months would tend to decline as inventory levels do run down and then they can decline as you get later into the year.
Again a very good long-term business for us; we have deep relationship there but we’re having to be very selective in terms of our growth because it’s a very thinly priced segment of the market.
But we’ve got broad relationships with some great customers.
And it’s a long-term terrific business for us.
And Karen question for you on just the expense trajectory.
We obviously know about the pieces that are going to be increasing through the year and you mentioned the ramp from the first quarter.
Is there way you can try to help us understand the magnitude of the increase from here and just the magnitude of year-over-year increase to your point about higher in the guidance? Thanks.
Yes Ken we obviously said we do expect expenses to increase from here.
We’re going to be adding additional headcount against both our technology project agenda and a regulatory agenda.
We will have extra days in the back half of the year.
Typically the back half of the year starting in the second quarter really is impacted by merit increases.
So you have several things that move in the salary and benefit line item.
On the occupancy line item we also do expect that to be higher with normal rent increases.
It was down lower this quarter as I said because of the charge that we took in the fourth quarter which was not repeated.
And then we had some additional just one-time items in that line item.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit of color.
Is there a way you could at least contextualize just the magnitude of year-over-year increase? We purposely have not given a percent increase in our guidance but we’ll certainly take that into consideration as the quarters move.
Your next question comes from the line of Jennifer Demba with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
My question is on the mortgage banker finance line.
Could you just talk about the competitive environment you saw in the first quarter? Even with your focus on purchase I might have expected to be maybe a little bit better.
Have you seen a lot of price competition there? Lars? Clearly it is a competitive space.
There is no question about it.
And we have seen pressure in our loan spreads and loan yields and mortgage banking finance despite that given our approach which is very relationship oriented.
I have pointed out before over 90% of our customers have treasury managements number of other products and services with us.
So we really look at it on a total relationship return basis.
And that’s our real focus.
And frankly we’re getting very attractive returns in that space.
I should point out that one of the reasons we’re doing that is Comerica continues to carve out a very what I would say premier position in this industry.
We are banking some of the blue chip mortgage companies both in our footprint with the bias there but also nationally.
We are pleased that a lot of mortgage companies want to do business because we do deliver a different unique value proposition.
We’re reliable; we’re responsive; we were there with them through the cycle but I would expect to continue to receive pressure there.
One last closing point our purchase volume orientation clearly helps us in terms of the returns of this business.
And that’s not a mistake; that’s a strategic decision by management.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
I just want to go back to energy real quick sorry.
Just on a couple quants again Karen just to confirm I think you had just indicated that that 1.4 to 1.5 reserve ratio you provided last quarter that was all qualitative reserve.
No that was total reserve against all of our energy at that point in time including quantitative.
What we had said last quarter was that we had a 60 basis-point increase in our qualitative portion which amounted to approximately the size of our net charge-off in the peak of the last cycle? And you’re not able to give us where that 1.4 to 1.5 went to as of March 31? We’re not giving it but you can know that it obviously has increased because we’ve increased both the quantitative and the qualitative piece.
And then on the criticized loans I know you said 6% criticized for the total energy book.
And again can you give us the breakout of E&amp;P and service again where they stand in terms of criticized ratio? Pete do you want to take that? Yes.
As of March 31st again that 6% is a combination of E&amp;P Energy Services Midstream and energy related.
The Energy Services was tracking more toward 10% and the E&amp;P was slightly below that 6%.
And do you have those other two midstream and energy related? We have no criticized loans in our midstream; and the energy related would look a lot like our energy services.
And do you also have how that 6% criticized has changed from last quarter? Yes.
Overall it’s up slightly; we were probably around 4.5% 5% last quarter and now we’re at 5.5% to 6%.
And then separately back to expenses just more of a longer term question.
I wanted to get Karen your color on where the efficiency ratio could ultimately go longer term.
I mean traditionally you’ve been in the mid 60s higher in the first quarter obviously.
I wanted to see just giving your expense outlook where you see that trending next year and then also longer term? Yes.
So our efficiency ratio goal for the long-term as you know is to bring efficiency below 60%.
And we have said that we will continue to focus on that path of getting there but we will need a little bit of our rate environment uptick certainly not what we would deem to be a normal rate environment to ultimately get there.
Our overall outlook for the year absent a rate rise points to stable a relatively stable revenue and higher provision and higher expense.
So absent a rate rise our efficiency ratio could move a little backwards.
But again we are focused on a very long-term around bringing that below 60% and very much believe that we will be able to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
I just had a couple of clean up questions if I may.
Karen the starting point for the margin in the second quarter is that lease residual value a permanent adjustment? And so 264 is the starting point or is 259 the better starting point for 2Q? The lease residual value adjustment affected both the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
So you can think of that as not something that necessarily repeats.
And just another follow-up question on the margin.
You mentioned further HQLA purchases.
Will you usual excess deposits to fund it and that we shouldn’t expect significant balance sheet growth in 2015? So our liquidity coverage ratio estimate today is at 80% and we will need to bring it to 90%.
Important to know that HQLA can include just cash or deposits on the fed on your balance sheet.
So currently it does include that position in our estimates.
We will need to increase that HQLA and whether we do it with simply funding it and leaving it short-term for putting it in securities are decisions that we’ll make depending on the interest rate environment as we execute them.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Please go ahead.
This is actually Andrew Karp on the line for Bob.
Looking at the utilization ratio on an end of period basis that was only up 1% can you give us an idea of what that number looks like in February when the balances in the energy business increase? Ralph? Yes.
We look at utilization rates at the end of the quarter so I really need to guide you towards that maybe give you a little bit of color on those utilization rates.
General middle market was clearly a key driver there along with mortgage banking finance international technology and life sciences.
Those were some of our key drivers for the quarter.
I should also note that our overall commitments were stable for the quarter but what underlies that is the fact that we did see our energy commitments decrease as you would expect with the redeterminations as well as U.S.
banking where we continue to be very selective in careful and attentive t Basel III in how we manage those relationships in a very low return thinly priced segment of the market.
So those may exaggerate the numbers just a little bit.
But that maybe gives you a flavor for where we did see that utilization movement.
And specifically in the energy book I think you said that the balances peaked in February if you can really quantify that number at that point in time? So it’d be hard to quantify the exact number but you are exactly right.
We saw a peak in February and then began to decline.
And if you want some historical perspective on what our balances did in the last cycle you can just look at the energy slide that is provided in the deck.
Okay I will.
Thank you.
And following up on earlier question I believe you said that of these services companies that you’ve done your views on 50% receipts some kind of risk rating downgrade.
That obviously seems like a large number.
I’m just trying to see how that stacks up.
Can you compare that maybe to what in a more stable year what percentage of services companies would have received some kind of downgrade if any? Pete? Yes.
It’s not terribly surprising.
Most of our energy services book is a well rated portfolio.
We only do business with the upper middle markets.
So these are companies with very strong balance sheet; they are well capitalized; they’ve got a lot of liquidity.
So most of them are starting out at a very high risk rating.
And then we’re downgrading because we see operational weakness.
We don’t necessarily see losses but will see if our losses credit losses but if we see operational weakness or poor outlooks we’ll downgrade them a notch.
We are not necessarily -- half of them are not being downgraded to a criticized level but being downgraded one notch or two notch just from where they were.
Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Please go ahead.
I just need some help in trying to tie in some of these pieces together on the energy side.
Specifically what I mean by that is it seems like energy companies are cutting costs clearly because of what’s happened to energy prices.
But I think if you look at prior cycles when there are periods of pressure in terms of lower energy prices it seems like these companies have actually had more of a need to borrow because of top line pressures.
So first I’d be curious to see if you feel that maybe the cost cutting has been more aggressive this time around to where they don’t need to borrow as much.
The other thing that seems to be interesting is it seems like you reduced your commitments to energy clients in this environment.
At the same time these energy companies seem to be able to tap the capital market.
So I’m curious -- I mean the two seem to be at odds of each other when banks feel that they need to curtail risk but then somehow they are able to offload it in the capital markets and seem have find other investors in there.
So I’m just trying to reconcile some of these somewhat conflicting trends and your perspective would be helpful there.
Thank you.
Pete? Yes.
I think we’re seeing a couple of things Sameer there a little bit difference from the last downturn for one the capital markets are stronger and our borrowers are accessing them.
That means that a lot of the senior debt is pretty well positioned in the capital stack and pretty well secured.
I think our borrowers are reacting very quickly; they are cutting back on CapEx aggressively; they are cutting back on operating expenses aggressively.
And what I see is they are positioning their companies to be profitable in a lower priced environment.
And then the last thing I think that’s little bit different this time around is I think the hedging is stronger than it was the last time as well.
And hedging gives these companies runway gives them runway to right-size their companies to make sure that they can be profitable in a lower price environment.
And then the other question I had was is there any reason to think -- I know you’ve completed a review of this 45% of your energy portfolio.
But is there any reason to think that the remaining 55% is different in any way shape or form or on average would you expect the profile of those types of borrowers to be fairly similar so there won’t be any surprises as you go through the rest of the portfolio? No I think that 45% is a pretty good indication of what we expect to see the rest of the way through.
Next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliot with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
On energy just thinking about the trajectory of loan balances; you gave us the end of period figure of $3.6 billion on slide 10 and you gave us the average of $3.7 billion on slide 17.
So I guess if I try and do some calculations that kind of points to about a $200 million decline in balances between a peak of say 3.8 billion in February and a period end of 3.6 billion.
So I’m just wondering does that kind of very rough calculation make sense and if so in that kind of trajectory all balances down a couple of hundred million in a couple of months.
Is that something we should expect to see continuing? Lars? Yes.
So I think your math holds well.
I think you’re thinking about it the right way.
The one thing that I would throw out is where are energy prices going to be 30 60 90 days from now and what’s the duration of this stress in the portfolio.
And I think that that’s going to have a lot to do with the trajectory of loan outstandings as we look at the rest of this year and maybe even into next year because that will clearly have an impact.
And if you’ve noticed in just the last day or so energy prices have moved a lot.
So that’s an unknown variable.
And then just quickly just follow-up on one point I think you mentioned loan to values were stable despite the lower oil prices could you just explain how that works? It just seems a bit counter intuitive.
Yes.
We said that loan to values were stable on average for our portfolio but some may have been slightly up some may have been slightly down but on average for the whole portfolio stable.
It’s actually -- it’s almost exactly 50% of our loan to values increase and 50% of our loan to values decrease as a result of redeterminations we’ve done so far.
One additional factor that I would throw in there is you’ve got some companies as Pete has pointed out that frankly are in positions of strength; they’re doing all the right things and frankly they’re adding to their borrowing basis currently.
Proven reserves it’s actually expanding the borrowing basis.
So that obviously helps the math.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Just following up on a following question the difference today versus the past is more hedging and you said therefore the energy companies have a longer runway.
How long is that runway; and at what point do you say now we’re hitting a tipping point is that three months nine months a year two years what would you say? Right now our borrowers are pretty well hedged.
I think I mentioned earlier 60% have over 50% or more of their PDP production hedged for at least one year.
And I think the number’s more like 45% for two years or more.
I think what I meant by runway is is that this just gives them time to right-size their cost structure.
And I think what we’re expecting to see over the next year or two is that oil prices will find their equilibrium and borrowers will figure out how to adjust to that new price environment.
Like rig count.
Right.
Rig counts down dramatically if you get a sense about September last year it’s down about 50%.
50%.
That’s part of that readjustment.
Okay.
If I could just add one other thing I think we’re encouraged by the fact that our borrowers are not operating their companies assuming oil prices are going to increase; they’re operating their companies assuming that prices are going to remain low.
And that gives us a lot of encouragement.
But still Ralph you called out a downshift in the Texas economy what did you mean by that? Do you have kind of like a state GDP where it was and where you think it’s going to be or any color there? Overall that was a reference to we’ll see GDP come down in Texas if the oil prices stay where they are at the moment and because of the reductions that you’ve heard about here as we’ve been talking.
When you look overall though I would like to point out that today the energy sector is less than 15% of the GDP in Texas and about 2.5% of employment.
So while it will have an effect in slowing the overall economy it’s much different than it was historically.
And then last follow-up when I look at Comerica today versus the decade ago or two decades ago Texas is one-fourth today versus one-tenth in the past.
And so there is really -- the first quarter is when you say you have experienced in past cycles I mean Texas a couple of decades ago was just couple of billion dollars.
And then the related question is given the downshift in Texas economy is one-fourth kind of where you want to be with regard to your Texas composition or are you still looking to get larger? Thanks.
Texas is a very important market to us.
And as we’ve discussed in the past we wanted to diversify our geographies.
And being in Texas and California the two largest economies in the country are very important.
And we expect to see very good growth in the future both here in Texas and California and as we were talking about earlier Michigan.
And the car industry are coming back and we’re seeing things move in the right direction there; it’s getting stronger and GDP is going up in that stage as well.
So it’s working out as a very good diversification from a geographic standpoint.
And if I could just add one additional point is of course California is our biggest franchise today for our company and frankly whether you look at it from a linked quarter or common quarter basis we’re growing almost every line of business in that state.
And then just the other related question.
When you talk about the experience past cycles Comerica was pretty small in Texas during the last oil cycle.
So maybe the length of experience the teams that you have hired or can you just give some little more comfort and color on that past experience why it helps today? It’s the experience of the team as well.
I think we point out many times that we’ve got 30 years experience of some of our people.
They have been here; they have seen the cycles and that’s very important when you are in the industry and understanding the customer base.
Lars do you want to add anything to that? Well I would just say we’ve obviously continued to invest in our core middle market business.
And I think we have a nice runway there to continue to grow particularly given the diversification of the overall economy here.
But also I think we’re leveraging some of our national businesses like environmental services mortgage banking finance where we have some outstanding customers in our footprint wealth management and lot more resources here.
So a lot more sources of revenue that we have in Texas than we’ve had in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
I had a question.
You touched earlier regarding thinking of the California market as an ongoing offset to some runoff in Texas and you talked about commercial real-estate potentially picking up over the course of 2015.
I would like to hear your take specific to the California market on general middle market as well as small business opportunities.
Lars do you want to take that? Sure.
So California if you look back over the last couple of years has been in a little bit of a funk.
Some of the economics for the state have been slower to recover than the nation but more recently we’ve seen that pick up and frankly that’s reflected even in our own numbers if you look at it from a linked quarter basis whether you look at it from a common quarter basis California looks very attractive.
Back from a common quarter basis we’re up 9%; our total loan portfolio about 1.4 billion in the state.
If you look at our pipeline we continue to see a strengthening in a number of those businesses.
Technology and life sciences is based out of there.
We’ve had some outstanding growth in that business.
And we expect that that will continue to grow in the future.
We are in the right markets I think.
We are in the San Francisco Silicon Valley the Bay Area there; we are in Los Angeles Orange County San Diego and number of others that are very attractive I think in the long haul.
And I really believe in talking to customers recently there is lot more optimism today than there was a year or two ago.
And Lars do you think that optimism applies to general versus specific line of business like tech and life sciences or entertainment? I am sorry could you repeat that? I was just wondering I mean your greatest strength has been in some of those specialty lines of businesses right? If you think tech and life sciences year-over-year numbers are up quite a bit; general middle market is down so haven’t moved very much nor have the small business balances.
And so do you sense the same level of opportunity and optimism in the general business lines versus the specialty lines of businesses? Yes.
So you are exactly right.
However I’d point out over this last quarter we had 3% growth kind of in our general middle market in California.
That was pretty good pretty strong numbers.
So I would expect that we will continue see some of specialized lines of business continuing to grow.
We saw small business up 2%; we saw entertainment grow.
And I would to expect to see our general middle market as well as the economy continues to keep expanding that we’ll continue to gain momentum there.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rochester with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
I apologize for beating the energy dead horse here but without qualifying exactly where you are today on that energy reserve ratio.
How would you say the ratio relates to the peak ratio in the last energy cycle back in ‘08 and ‘9? Are you still below that level? So if we look at our reserves against energy and energy related today versus where we were in the last cycle we’re about double or a little more than double.
But that is not necessarily a great comparison because each cycle is very different.
And remember in the last downturn there was a lot of other stuff going on outside of energy back in 2009.
And Karen do you have any updated thoughts on dead issuance this year and how much you think want to do? It seems like with rates even lower now this year might be the right time to do something closer to that long term capital structure target you got.
Because we do need to have high quality liquid assets for the liquidity coverage ratio we will need to be tapping the wholesale funding markets.
We do have great access across the variety of markets which would include the debt markets; the broker CD markets; and our line of the Federal Home Loan Bank.
So we have plenty of capacity and we will be tapping that in order to become compliant for LCR.
Any sense for how much you want to do this year in terms of longer term fixed type debt? Last fall at the conference we did show that over the long-term our balance sheet should have about 20% of it against the wholesale funding market and right now we’re at about 4%.
So we do expect over the next year to get to approximately half of the way toward that longer term target just because of needing to become compliant with the LCR ratio.
And then can you just talk about the treasuries about this quarter; what the rate was overall? And then in terms of the dollar amount of HQLA if you haven’t had that I know you said you are at 80% of your target was just wondering what that dollar amount was.
We don’t give the dollar amount of HQLA but again we are at about 80%.
In terms of -- you asked about the price of the securities portfolio that we’ve been reinvesting in we’ve been reinvesting in Ginnie Maes and today that would be about 1.8%.
So over the quarter we’ve been able to tap the market at some various rates.
We did add the treasuries at the end of the fourth quarter which we talked about 500 million of treasuries and those were just under 1.7%.
Your next question comes from the line of Jack Micenko with SIG.
Please go ahead.
I’m wondering if as you reach out to your energy customers if you are picking up any under tones of any potential M&amp;A discussions either smaller private sellers or maybe larger private or public potential buyers; are you seeing anything there? Lars? Yes.
There is some discussion on it.
I must admit that the majority of the conversation is focused around their own shops; what they need to do to right-size; manage their balance sheet as Pete had referenced earlier and tapping the debt and equity markets; selling maybe a few assets off which leads to think I think you’re question.
And we have had some conversations and we have seen a few transactions out there in particular where some of your lower cost producers are finding opportunities to pick up lower price assets that frankly they can get suitable returns on today and even more attractive returns in the future.
So I wouldn’t be surprised if we see a little bit more M&amp;A activity pick up as we go through the year.
And then one last question looking to California I’m curious if your decline in deposits there on an average basis is tied to your better than average loan growth.
Are we seeing better line utilization in California; are people finally drawing on cash balances or are they unrelated? You may recall on the fourth quarter earnings call we talked about the fact that we did have a few large customers that built balances temporarily in that fourth quarter.
But frankly if you look at page seven of the deck you get a sense of the growth of our deposits over a period of time you will see that the first quarter of 2015 just looks like the continued trajectory with that wire in the fourth of our average balances.
Those balances moved in and they moved out and they normalized.
But even if you take those out you will continue to see that we had nice growth including non-interest bearing deposits transaction accounts even the first quarter of the year.
I don’t see it a action between an outflow in California and the growth of loan balances in that state.
I think period end deposits were up about 5% and the period end average was down.
That’s exactly right.
And frankly some of those what I would call anomalous deposits that we had frankly went out by December 31st and that’s one of the reasons that you did see that period end number look a little bit more normalized.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will turn the conference over to Ralph Bob Chairman and CEO for any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us today and your interest in Comerica.
We appreciate it very much and hope you have a great day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Carmen and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Carmen.
Good morning.
And welcome to Comerica’s second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; President Curtis Farmer; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Chief Credit Officer Pete Guilfoile; and Executive Vice President of the Business Bank Pat Faubion.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC’s website as well as in the Investor Relations section of our website comerica.com.
As we review our second quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I would like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to vary materially from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statements contained in this release issued today as well as slide two of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC for factors that could cause actual results to differ.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I would direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on slide three.
Good morning.
Our second quarter results reflect the advantages of our diverse geographic footprint and industry expertise.
Today we reported second quarter 2015 net income of $135 million compared to $134 million for the first quarter and $151 million for the second quarter of 2014.
Earnings per diluted share were $0.73 for both the second and first quarters of 2015 and $0.80 for the second quarter of 2014.
Turning to slide four and highlights from our second quarter results.
Average loans were up $2.1 billion or 5% compared to a year ago.
Average loans grew $682 million or 1% relative to the first quarter with increases in most markets and business lines.
The largest contributor quarter over quarter was mortgage banker finance which grew $690 million as we continue to increase our market share and benefited from a pick-up in activity due to summer home sales.
This was partially offset by $276 million decrease in average loans in our energy line of business as customers continued to adjust their cash flow needs and tap the capital markets.
Average deposits were up $4 billion or 8% compared to a year ago.
Relative to the first quarter average deposits increased $408 million or 1% with non-interest bearing deposits up $668 million.
In further comparing our second quarter results to the first quarter net interest income increased $8 million or 2% to $421 million primarily due to an increase in loan volumes and one more day in the quarter.
Overall credit quality remains solid.
Net charge-offs continue to be well below normal levels at 15 basis points or $18 million.
Net charge-offs related to our energy exposure were nominal.
The provision for credit losses increased from a very low level due to an increase in criticized loans related to energy as well as uncertainty due to continued volatility and the sustained low oil and gas prices.
Reserve to total loans ratio was increased to 1.24% and the reserve covers non-performing loans 1.7 times.
The outcome of the recent shared national credit exam is incorporated into our results.
Non-interest income increased $6 million or 2% to $261 million reflecting increases in card fees and smaller increases in several other fee categories.
Non-interest expenses decreased $23 million to $436 million primarily due to a $31 million reduction in litigation-related expenses and seasonally lower salary and benefit expenses partially offset by higher outside processing fees related to increased revenue generating activities.
The decline in litigation-related expenses reflected a reduction in legal reserves including a favorable court ruling which reversed a jury verdict against Comerica and sent the case back for a new trial.
Our capital position continues to be solid.
Stock and warrant repurchases under our equity repurchase program combined with dividends returned $96 million to shareholders in the second quarter.
As announced in April we increased the quarterly dividend by 5% to $0.21 per share.
Turning to slide five and look at our primary markets.
Our Texas Economic Index issued earlier this month and tracking data through April shows that the Texas economy continued to ease from lower oil prices.
However job creation in Texas has bounced back and ranked third nationally for most jobs created in May.
And for the last 12 months Texas was the number two job generator behind only California.
The diversity of the Texas economy together with the geographic diversity of our footprint and the positive momentum of the national economy continues to serve us well.
Average loans in Texas were down about 2% compared to the first quarter due the decline in our energy loans while average deposits were relatively stable.
Our California Economic Index has shown another month of growth.
The California economy gained momentum after a soft first quarter.
The state economy is large diverse and resilient.
Court [ph] activity is normalizing and the high-tech sector remains strong.
Real estate markets in Northern California are tight and Southern California markets are tightening as well.
Average loans in California were up 1.5% compared to the first quarter with technology and life sciences national dealer services private banking and small business are contributing to the growth.
Average deposits were up 2.6% led by technology and life sciences and general middle market.
Our Michigan economic index has shown another gain.
Strong auto sales are supportive of Michigan’s manufacturing sector and are buffering the negative impact of the strong dollar on export oriented manufacturing.
Job creation is on an upward trend in Michigan and real estate markets continue to firm up.
Average loans in Michigan were up by 0.5% compared to the first quarter led by middle market banking while average deposits were stable.
Before turning it over to Karen since our last earnings call in April Curt Farmer was named Comerica’s President; and earlier this week we announced the change in leadership of our Business Bank appointing Pat Faubion a 31 year Comerica veteran to head our Business Bank.
While Curt and Pat bring considerable experience and expertise I look forward to working with both of them in their new roles.
In closing we believe our balance sheet remains well positioned for rising rates.
We remain focused on the long-term with the relationship banking strategy that continues to serve us well.
And now I will turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning everyone.
Turning to slide six quarter-over-quarter total average loans increased $682 million or 1.4%.
Mortgage banker was the largest contributor to average loan growth with $690 million increase over the first quarter due to new and expanded relationships as well as seasonality related to summer home sales.
In addition average loans grew in the majority of our business lines including general middle market private banking national dealer services mall business and technology and life sciences.
As expected average loans in our energy line of business did decline by $276 million and average loans in our corporate banking business also declined as we continue to maintain our pricing and structure discipline in one of the most the competitive segments in the industry.
Based on the Fed’s H8 data our average total loan growth outpaced the large U.S.
commercial banks which grew 1.2% from April 1st to July 1st.
Total loan commitments increased $582 million at quarter-end with growth in nearly every business line more than offsetting declines in energy and corporate banking.
Utilization also increased to 51% from 50% at the end of the first quarter with usage increasing in almost every business line other than energy and technology and life sciences importantly our pipeline increased.
Our loan yields increased 1 basis point in the second quarter as shown in the yellow diamond.
We benefited from a 1 basis point increase in 30-day LIBOR.
Turning to deposits on slide seven.
Average deposits increased $408 million in the second quarter driven by a $668 million increase in non-interest bearing deposits.
A seasonal tax related increase in retail balances was a major contributor.
Period end total deposits increased $690 million to $58.3 billion.
We continue to prudently manage deposit pricing which remained very low and decreased 1 basis point to 14 basis points as shown by the yellow diamonds on the slide.
Slide eight shows our securities portfolio increase as we continue to position ourselves for compliance with the new liquidity coverage ratio or LCR.
While our average balances were stable from the first quarter at $9.9 billion our period end balances reflect the purchase of additional treasury securities in June.
The estimated duration of our total portfolio sits at 3.8 years and the expected duration under a 200 basis-point rate shock extends it modestly to 4.6 years.
In the current rate environment we expect continued minor pressure on the average security wheel as you can see in the yellow diamond on the slide.
As far as LCR compliance we still feel comfortable that we will meet the proposed phase in threshold by continuing to add high quality liquid assets or HQLA over the next year and half to meet the requirement plus the buffer to withstand normal volatility.
In early June we issued $500 million in five-year senior bank debt and swap it to floating at six months LIBOR plus 75 basis points.
We invested a portion of the proceeds 200 million in five year treasuries yielding about 150 basis points.
As long as interest rates remain low we expect to continue to execute in this manner to minimize any impact to those earnings and our asset sensitive position.
We have said before that the amount of additional HQLA needed is fluid and depends on loan and deposit growth as well as our continued assessment of both our own data and the rule.
Based on our estimate of what we know today we believe that by the end of 2016 we will need to add 1 billion to 3 billion in HQLA which we will fund by tapping a variety of sources in manageable increment.
We estimate that based on our current assessment as of quarter-end our LCR was in the mid 80s up from about 80% at the end of the first quarter.
Turning to slide nine net interest income grew $8 million in the second quarter.
Loan growth one additional day in the quarter and higher loan yields together drove in an $11 million increase.
This was partly offset by lower securities yield lower average balances at the fed and an increase in interest expense on debt.
Our net interest margin increased 1 basis point primarily driven by higher loan yields which reflected 1 basis point increase in 30-day LIBOR.
Compared to the second quarter of 2014 excluding the $8 million decline in accretion net interest income increased $13 million largely due to loan growth.
We continue to be well positioned to benefit when rates rise.
Our standard asset liability case shows that a 200 basis-point increase in rates over a one year period equivalent to 100 basis points on average would result in an increase to net interest income of about $220 million.
We also share in the appendix several alternative assumptions to our standard case which changes to the pace of deposit decline loan growth and rate rises.
And in all cases we remain well-positioned for rising rates.
Because we have continued to experience strong deposit growth in this persistently low rate environment our standard model which has reflected only historical behavior now also reflects a further decrease in deposits as rates begin to rise.
While it is difficult to predict how deposits may react when we move out of this unprecedented environment the longer our deposits continue to increase it becomes more likely in our view that customers will ultimately use funds in their businesses or other investments.
Turning to slide 10 our overall credit picture remains solid and fully reflects the results to the shared national credit exam completed in the second quarter.
Net charge-offs were 15 basis points and while up from a very low level in the first quarter they remain well below what is historically normal for us.
The increase in net charge-offs can be attributed to corporate banking and technology and life sciences which tend to be lumpy.
This is partially offset by net recoveries in private banking and commercial real estate.
Our criticized loans grew $294 million to $2.4 billion or less than 5% of total loans which is well below our historical experience.
The increase was driven by $329 million increase in criticized loans related to energy.
Inflows to non-accruals were $145 million of which $100 million were energy related.
While non-accrual loans were up to $349 million they are still only 70 basis points of total loans.
As far as energy we have essentially completed the spring redeterminations for our E&amp;P customers which comprise 70% of our energy business line.
On average loan to values and advance rates remain stable from the prior redetermination.
As of quarter end commitments in our energy line of business have declined about 5% and outstandings are down 7% relative to the first quarter.
Overall our energy customers are taking the necessary actions to adjust their cash flow and reduce their bank debt such as cutting their expenses disposing of assets and tapping the capital markets.
As of quarter end approximately 14% or $578 million of energy and energy related portfolio is classified as criticized including non-accruals of $119 million and there were only $2 million of charge-offs.
The $47 million provision for our total portfolio reflected higher reserves for energy loans as a result of an increase in criticized loans and the impact of continued volatility and sustained low energy prices.
To a lesser extent corporate banking as well as technology and life sciences contributed to the increase in provision largely as a result of charge-offs and variability.
These increases were partially offset by credit quality improvements in the remainder of the portfolio which had a decline in non-accrual and criticized loans.
It is important to note that while we have prudently increased the reserves for energy we are very comfortable with our portfolio and continue to believe charge-offs will be manageable.
In summary our consistent robust methodology resulted in a $28 million increase to the allowance for credit losses to $668 million and the coverage of our non-performing loans remains very strong at 1.7 times.
Slide 11 outlines non-interest income which increased $6 million to $261 million largely driven by a $5 million increase in card fees due to higher revenue from merchant payment processing services and interchange.
In addition we have increases in service charges on deposit accounts fiduciary income and brokerage fees.
This was partially offset by a $3 million decline in commercial lending fees resulting from lower syndication fees and lower unused commitment fees from higher line utilization.
As a reminder in the third quarter we made contractual changes to a card program that impacted the way we present both revenues and expenses and is shown in the lighter shaded portion of the bars on the left chart.
Turning to slide 12 non-interest expenses decreased $23 million and included a $31 million decrease in litigation related expenses including a reduction in reserves for a case that received a favorable ruling on appeal.
Salaries and benefits decreased $2 million due to seasonal decline in payroll taxes and stock-based compensation expense partially offset by an increase in technology related contract labor merit increases and one additional day in the second quarter.
Finally outside processing fees associated with revenue generating activities increased $8 million.
Moving to slide 13 and capital management.
Our 2015 capital plan includes equity repurchases up to $393 million.
In the second quarter we repurchased 1 million shares for $49 million and 500 000 warrants for $10 million under the equity repurchase program.
When you combine this with the recent 5% increase in the dividend to $0.21 per share we returned 71% of second quarter net income to shareholders.
Despite the repurchases diluted average shares remained flat at 182 million for the second quarter as the impact from the increase in Comerica’s average stock price caused an increase in share dilution from options and warrants.
As you might recall the Federal Reserve scenario in the stress test included a gradual increase in rates over the forecasted period.
Given that the pace of our equity repurchases is expected to move in line with our performance and a rise in interest rates.
Turning to slide 14 and our outlook for full year 2015 which assumes the continuation of the current economic and rate environment.
As we have said before average loans for the full year are expected to grow at about the same pace as 2014.
We expect a typical third quarter seasonal decline in our dealer mortgage banker and general middle market business line followed by typical historical rebound in the fourth quarter.
In addition we anticipate the decline in energy outstandings should continue.
We expect our net interest income for the full year to be relatively stable with last year assuming no rise in interest rate with loan growth offsetting the decrease in purchase accounting accretion.
And as far as credit measures in the second half of 2015 we expect net charge-off rates to be similar to the 15 basis points we had in the second quarter and criticized loans to remain below normal levels.
Because the impact from volatility in oil and gas prices is difficult to predict continued negative migration is possible and maybe partially offset by a reduction in loan balances.
As always we remain focused on the emerging trends and have increased our reserve allocation the last three quarters as a result.
The remainder of the loan book is expected to continue to perform well.
On a full year basis we expect non-interest income to be relatively stable.
Excluding the impact of the accounting presentation of a card program which is offset in non-interest expense we continue to expect lower letters of credit derivatives and warrant income which should be mostly offset by growth in card and fiduciary fees.
Non-interest expenses are expected to be higher in the second half of the year relative to the first half primarily due to three more days and the full impact of merit increases as well as the ramp up in spending for technology projects and regulatory compliance.
Also outside processing expenses are expected to continue to grow with increased card revenue.
Finally occupancy expenses are expected to increase from seasonal taxes and higher rent expense.
In closing we are pleased with the continued loan and deposit growth as well as increased net interest and fee income.
Credit quality for the bulk of our portfolio remains very strong and we continue to believe that energy charge-offs will be manageable.
We remain focused on the long-term and we expect that as rates rise our revenue picture look even brighter.
As always we believe our relationship banking strategy combined with our diverse geographic footprint will continue to assist us in building long-term shareholder value.
Now we would like to open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O’Neil.
I guess maybe to start on the energy book.
Pardon me.
Given the volatility in the provision can you give us sort of any sense for how much of that was kind of front end loaded whether it was because of the resulted redetermination or SNC Exam versus how much of that will be ongoing? I mean I guess my sense is a lot of it is -- was front end loaded and then you got a declining base of energy related loans that should release some pressure but anything that you can offer to just kind of help scope that would be appreciated.
Pete? Sure.
So we’re about three quarters away through our risk ratings and so we have updated the portfolio largely for the decline in energy prices.
So from that perspective we’re a good way of the way through it.
We do expect though for there to be some continued migration in the portfolio as our borrowers continue to adjust to this lower price environment but we also expect that we’re going to continue to see pay downs on our energy loans which is going -- have a offsetting effect to the additional migration that we expect to see in the coming quarters.
And I don’t think you have but can you remind me have you guys disclosed what the energy reserve is in the past? And if so what the number is as of the second quarter? We haven’t disclosed the amount of reserve allocation for any industry mainly because we view that the reserve is there to cover any and all losses.
At the beginning of this downturn back in the fourth quarter we did talk about the fact that we had increased our qualitative reserves against energy at that point in time.
We also talked in the first quarter about the fact that we had increased our qualitative reserve modestly.
And this quarter our overall energy reserves have increased including maintaining a portion of qualitative reserves given the fact that Pete talked about that we expect continued potential negative migration in the portfolio.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JP Morgan.
Maybe to follow-up on Scott’s question some of your answers so I can understand them.
Of the $329 million increase in criticized loans tied to energy how much of that was tied to the SNC Exam? Steve we don’t think it’s appropriate for us to discuss results of the SNC Exam.
What we can tell you is is that we have incorporated all the risk rating changes that came out of the SNC Exam in our June 30th results.
To drive that level of increase in criticized was there anything else that happened in the quarter outside of the SNC Exam because I think you are more than half way through the redetermination process right as of last quarter? That’s right.
There is -- we’re seeing continued migration in the energy portfolio and that’s what we really expected Steve.
We’re not seeing anything that we didn’t expect to see in the first quarter.
And I think we feel as good about the energy portfolio today as we did a quarter ago.
And in terms of the provision I think prior to this quarter you would have established a provision based on your peak losses.
The last time we saw a sharp decline in oil.
Why has that not been enough so far? Steve I would say that on the reserves we did equate our qualitative reserve at the beginning of the downturn to be about equal to the peak net charge-offs in the last cycle.
But what I would say is each cycle is different.
And in the last cycle there was a lot of other things going on other than energy; it was back in 2008 2009.
And we have increased our reserves this cycle prudently.
And maybe Karen $50 oil today at the time fall reset that’s upcoming what percent of the portfolios [ph] be protected by hedges at that point? Steve right now I can tell you that 60% of our borrowers have more than 50% of their revenues hedged for a year or more and about third of them have 50% or more of their revenues hedged out two years or more.
So I don’t think it’s going to change a great deal between now and the fall but it’s difficult to model that.
We have been encouraged by the fact that the amount of hedging really is not changed over the past couple quarters.
And our borrowers continue to look for opportunities to layer in hedging when our opportunity is to do that.
We expect that to continue.
And maybe just a final one and changing director for a second for Ralph obviously disappointing news on Lars departing the company.
How do you think about and how should we think about any potential business impact from him leaving? And given that he’s gone to a competitor do you have a non-compete in place to protect against key employees key customers getting poached? Thanks.
Okay.
What I would say is as we mentioned in my comments as well as in the announcement that Pat Faubion is moving up to take Lars’s place.
Pat’s for this for over 31 years; understands the business banking environment very well.
He also has been the Texas market president for a number of years.
And so I think that transition will go very smoothly from that standpoint.
As we have talked about in the past Pat will report to Curt.
And Curt as well has a good deal of experience in all of our markets and understands our approach to our customers.
So I feel very good about the transition and we wish Lars the best.
Your next question is from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Karen thanks very much for the outlook on expenses for the second half of the year.
I guess how we should think about as we determine quarterly run rate about the litigation accrual reversal; does that come back to your run rate next quarter and that we should base our forecast off of? Yes the litigation related expenses are not typical.
And so those should not be included in the run rate.
So just to be clear the base would actually be 466 as we think about the second half of the year? Yes.
That’s correct Erika.
And just I wanted to make sure I understood the comments on buyback.
So are you hinting towards slower buyback activity? I just wanted to make sure I understood the message.
You were saying that the pace of buyback could be relative to potential change interest rate.
I just wanted to make sure I understood the message there.
Yes.
So in the past you probably have noted that our buybacks have been pretty evenly spread in the quarters.
And our current five-quarter approval was against the scenario that the Fed has put out it’s a public scenario that shows interest rates increasing starting in the back half of this year and ramping up increasingly through the approval period.
And as a result that has a good impact on our performance; and our share repurchase would be in line with that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Karen just a follow-up on the expenses; analysts want to ask you to just walk through a couple of these lines.
When we look at on slide 14 those the three points about the increase in tech increase in regulatory increase pension; am I correct in reading that most of those three things are in the run rate? How you should read them is that we show our full year which is what we’ve pointed to in prior outlook.
For example the technology increase is to 100 million for the full year but in the first half we booked $45 million which points to greater increase in the second half.
That’s how should you read it.
So the tech one of those three is the only one that really hasn’t increased in the second half of those three? That’s correct.
And then secondly then can you just try to help us understand little bit more about the bottom point there about to the magnitude of increase over 467 starting point that you’ll see from merit and those outside processing in occupancy costs? We typically see an impact in our salary and benefits line item obviously by three more days in the quarter.
That is a typical.
So you can look back at prior years.
Merit increase is also very typical where merit increases typically happen in the spring and then you’ll see a fuller version of those as you hit the second half.
And then higher outside processing fees would increase commensurate with revenue generating activity.
And occupancy expenses as we talked about increase because of taxes and rent increases in the back half.
So just in summary then it’s fair to say that the third and fourth quarters should be not just higher than the first-half but distinctly little bit higher than the second quarter; is that fair to say? That is fair to say.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rochester with Deutsche Bank.
I just wanted to follow-up on a previous answer you guys gave on an energy question.
You mentioned you were through the redetermination process but you were three quarters away through the risk rating process.
I don’t know if I heard that correctly but if I did I was just wondering why there is a difference there.
Yes sure Dave.
I’d be glad to clarify that.
We’re 97% through the redetermination process which means that we’re 97% through re-risk rating our E&amp;P -- the E&amp;P segment of our portfolio.
The 75% I referred to is the entire line of business which includes E&amp;P midstream and energy services.
So the midstream and the energy services have not been revaluated as yet? No they have.
We’re about 70 some percent through the energy services piece; we’re like E&amp;P we’re seeing some migration; and we’re about little over 50% through the midstream segment where we’re seeing really no migration.
And could you guys give any color on your outlook for debt issuance in the second half given your expected needs for HQLA growth that you’re talking about? As I mentioned we expect to raise wholesale funding for HQLA purposes between 1 billion to 3 billion from now through the end of next year.
So the 1 billion to 3 billion is -- sorry.
Go ahead.
Yes the 1 billion to 3 billion is an 18-month period.
And you expect to fund all of that with wholesale funding or just a portion of that? Well we expect to fund it with wholesale funding but our definition of wholesale funding is not just debt in the capital markets.
That would be one from of it; another form is we have plenty of capacity to draw down on our federal home loan bank line; and then we also consider broker deposits as a cheap form of wholesale funding.
So we have a variety of sources that we would tap in manageable increments.
Your next question comes from the line of David Eads with UBS.
Maybe looking at the Texas portfolio outside of energy I am curious if you have any kind of sense for the trajectory of loan balances there over the rest of the year? And I am curious if we saw any increases in the non-performers our criticized loans in the non-energy part of the Texas portfolio? The Texas portfolio as noted on the slides was down about 2% but that’s entirely attributed to the energy book which is to be expected and the other lines of business net to about flat.
Pete do you want to address the credit issue there? Sure.
David we’re really not seeing a lot of migration in the Texas portfolio outside of energy with one exception we have a small TLS book out of Houston.
This book is largely pre-revenue venture back companies that are developing new technologies in the oil patch.
And you can imagine that the business model for them has changed a great deal as oil has gone from 90 to 50.
The good news in that portfolio is it’s quite small; it’s only about 85 million and 2% of our total energy and energy related.
Other than that we’re seeing good experience in terms of the Texas portfolio including commercial real estate.
And Dave I would just mentioned that our loan outlook for the entire company does assume a continuation of the current economic environment which includes a slowdown in activity in Texas.
And then I am just kind of curious of how the energy kind of redetermination process works just given the changes we’ve had in the oil prices over the past quarter.
Is it a function where the redetermination made on the oil price using as of the date it’s done or assuming at certain price? I guess the bottom-line question is how much is the drop of price is from 60 bucks to 50 bucks how much of that is already baked into the current -- the 2Q level how much could impact going forward? Yes.
I can tell you that for the 97% we have done redeterminations on all of those risk ratings reflect current energy prices.
The way the redeterminations work David is we do -- we use the price deck that is approved at the time of redetermination.
However the price deck if we go back all the way to January our price decks which are very conservative are reflective at or below current prices.
So we’re very comfortable that we have reflected current energy prices in the 97% of the portfolio that we have re-risk rated.
And that’s including because I know you guys have discounts to prices.
So basically you are saying that the price deck on a weighted average will be below where it is now and that gives you comfort that you’re kind of -- reflecting the current price? Yes because we don’t necessary set the price deck at current prices.
We set the price deck at we think is appropriate and then we sensitize off of that pretty significantly.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
So back to energy.
Of the 300 million increase in criticized and energy criticize how much of that was E&amp;P versus midstream and oil service? Of the 300 million E&amp;P let me put to you this way.
Right now our E&amp;P portfolio is -- 15% of that portfolio is criticized; energy services is about 16% is criticized.
The two combined are about 440 million.
Okay.
So that -- just so I understand again that 15% for E&amp;P? Yes.
The criticized there is a percentage of the entire E&amp;P portfolio right now is 15% criticized and the criticized portion of our energy services book is 16%.
Got it.
So the total energy -- the criticized ratio for the total energy portfolio is in that 16%-17% range? It’s actually 13% because midstream that we really don’t have a much in the way of criticized loans in midstream.
So in total it’s 13% for the entire portfolio entire line of business portfolio.
So now where would that number last cycle like where is that compared to your peak? Is that already above where you peaked before? I don’t have the number off-hand but I’m quite sure it was not.
At the peak I know our energy services book which was the worst part of it last downturn I think we reached about 37% criticized there.
And keep in mind that criticized loan does not necessarily become a charge-off.
Last cycle our peak net charge-off was 69 basis points.
What you’re providing it looks like at higher level that you did last time even though the peak criticized from last time or higher than where they’re now.
So I guess that points to just the regulatory environment around this type of portfolio; is that fair? There is increased scrutiny around this portfolio in the current environment.
And then lastly if I could just ask around the reserve I know Karen you indicated you didn’t quantify that.
But is it fair to assume just based upon the number you did give.
I think it was two quarters ago about the energy loan loss reserve ratio I think it was around 1.5% 1.6%.
If we assume factoring the reserve editions for energy and also adjust for what we think were the charge-offs for the quarter is it fair to assume that your energy loss reserve is in the ballpark of 270 basis points? I’m not going to comment on the allocation for energy reserves really because of what I said earlier that we believe that reserves are there to cover any and all losses.
But I will say obviously that we’ve increased the reserves against our energy portfolio for the last three quarters.
And this quarter we have increased the overall allocation as well as it continues to maintain a qualitative portion.
Your next question comes from the line Brett Rabatin with Piper Jaffray.
I guess just a question around the guidance on the provision and charge-offs the updated numbers.
I realize that criticized loans don’t necessarily mean charge-offs but I guess I was looking for some color around the guidance in the back half of the year for charge-offs to remain similar to 2Q 15 basis points despite the increase in criticized loans overall.
Any thought on why you guys didn’t change that to a higher number? So on net charge-offs again we expect net charge-offs to be well below what we redeem normal or through the cycle for us which is about 40 basis points.
And we’re trying to give color on the back half of the year that while charge-offs continue to bounce around along the bottom right now they likely won’t be as low in the back half of the year as they have been for quarters prior to this one.
And that’s why we’re saying approximately equal to the second quarter.
And overall provision is very difficult to predict and will depend on what happens in the energy space.
If oil prices continue to remain low we expect that to have additional impact on credit migration in our energy and energy related book but we do also expect that that could be offset by loan pay down.
If I could just add a good portion of the increase in criticized of course in the E&amp;P book.
This is an asset-based book; it’s very well secured.
And even though we had to make loans in this segment substandard because they need the definition of impaired they’re still well secured.
And I guess the other question was just a follow-up again on the energy stuff.
Last quarter there was a bigger difference between criticized and E&amp;P versus service which is I guess what I wasn’t expecting.
Any thoughts around the increase in criticized on E&amp;P versus criticized this quarter? I can tell you that we still feel very good about the E&amp;P segment of the portfolio.
These are large energy companies the strong balance sheets.
We have very few only a handful of credits; Pat pointed to three.
They have efficiencies at this point in time.
So we’re in very strong position in terms of our collateral position clever position on the E&amp;P portfolio.
And then I guess just lastly if I can.
The Texas being flat outside of energy kind of any thoughts around why Texas is flat aside from the energy with the things going on besides obvious energy implications? The overall economy in Texas although it is more diverse than the last energy downturn is in a slump and that’s noted in our economic forecast provided by Robert Dye.
The pipelines however are still strong and all of our lines of business are continuing to grow.
And as I mentioned earlier we’re seeing employment pick up again so positive signs from that standpoint.
If I could also add the middle market segment of portfolio which is energy related what we’re really seeing there is a good thing.
We’re seeing as these companies’ revenues drop off that balance sheets are shrinking and they’re using their cash to pay down debt.
So that’s actually been a positive thing.
But it is the headwind in terms of loan numbers.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR Capital.
I was just hoping you could maybe share a little color in the scenario that you all have outlined where energy prices stay where they are today and you see some contraction in loan balances in that scenario how should we think about the provision expense in the back half of the year? Does the back half look like the first half; does it look more like the first quarter or just kind of curious in that scenario what it looks like? Bob it’s very difficult to predict.
But what I would say is that we’ve given you a sense of where we think net charge-offs will be in the back half of the year.
And then on the rest of the provision that really does depend on negative credit migration that could be possible.
But again we point to the fact that that could be offset by the decline in balances.
So it is difficult to predict.
I would also remind people that we do continue to have a qualitative reserve against what could be further migration.
And could it be fully offset by the drop in balances or is it more of a partial offset? That is difficult to predict.
So we can’t say.
Help me think to how should we think about the amount of contraction we could see in the energy portfolios? Will it look similar to this quarter or do you have any sense of whether there could be acceleration? Energy loans did peak for us in February and since then they’ve been declining.
As we expect as companies adjust for cash flow and really operate within cash flow and also tapping the capital markets we do expect to continue to see the decline over the course of the year as company continues to manage our cash flow although we could see some temporary upticks of capital markets access type material.
But we do expect lower CapEx lower production and lower cash flow which translates to decreased loan demand.
I would also add that in the appendix we do show the history of our energy portfolio and you can see how it reacted in the last downturn which can help us to guide.
And then I guess shifting away from energy but still talking about loan growth obviously this was a really strong quarter for the mortgage banker finance portfolio.
I know you guys have said seasonally in the back half of the year to expect that to come in a bit.
Just curious of your comment on the strength this quarter and whether the seasonal decline really is more of a 4Q than 3Q event or how you’re thinking about the trajectory there? I would say just a brawl as you’ve already commented that we’re seeing the normal seasonal buying period of spring and summer and we’re not through the summer season.
Yes so it continues a little bit into the third quarter as well but typically we would see to fall off in Q3 and Q4.
We from overall perspective saw nice growth in mortgage banker finance.
And the piece I think that has potential to fall off in the second half of the year is the refi activity as rates continue to increase.
But home purchases as real estate values firm up across the country may be more stable versus refi.
And how much of the current book is refi versus purchase? We’re 70% on the purchase side which compares to the MBA [ph] data which would say the industry average is more than the 55% range.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
I guess first question in terms of -- if you look at the price of oil over the last quarter just had an upward bias in the ballpark and say at the end of the quarter roughly $60.
Was your reserves based on the $60ish oil price because obviously it’s come down a fair bit and about roughly $50 right now? I am just wondering if what you base to reserve on and is the drop from 60 to 50 actually the main driver of your additional reserve build that you’re referring to.
The answer is our price deck did not reflect $60 oil and it hasn’t reflected that all year.
Our price deck was set well below that level and it’s been at that level for the entire year.
So again with all the redeterminations that we’ve done we’ve been doing them with prices that are at or below whatever the current oil price is gas prices are.
And the price is also just to the amount direct borrowing.
It is typically around 65% of PDP.
But the drops at $50 oil now are you saying that you would not change your price deck based on where oil was today you have not… That’s correct that’s what I am saying.
I am saying our price deck is appropriate given where prices are today.
So we look at it all the time.
And on the 75% that you’ve reviewed I think it was of the E&amp;P and midstream.
When you guys go through and build or put reserves on the stuff that you’ve reviewed do you also extrapolate to the other 25% you haven’t done yet or is that something we could see deteriorate next quarter? We actually do do that.
And we have an extrapolation and that’s one of the factors we use in terms of determining what our qualitative reserve should be.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
One more on energy maybe tying into to your comments about the capital markets.
It sounds like your clients have been able to tap the capital markets over the past few months to be able to reduce your exposure.
Can you maybe give us a qualitative measure of sort of their ability to do that; has that -- have the markets tightened for that over the past few months? The capital markets have been very open to energy credits.
And as you suggest our borrowers have been very adaptive tapping those capital markets.
And today that we remain opened.
My comment was if capital markets tightened that could reduce the run-off that we see in our portfolio.
I don’t have a way to predict what the capital markets might do with regard to energy companies.
And then Ralph maybe a question for you; you say on slide 13 that the pace of future buyback activity within the 393 million that you’re targeting for the current capital planning cycle is somewhat dependent I guess on your financial performance.
And if you end up getting a redetermination later this year that’s tougher than you expect that increases your provisions.
I guess the question is really at the end of the day how committed are you to generating or to fulfilling that 393 million repurchase within the context of also trying to grow tangible booked value? We are always focused on the return to our shareholders as we’ve talked about many times and we will continue to look and evaluate that.
It depends what you gave an example it depends what happens there and what the analysis is at that point in time and what we feel like as to the decision we would make.
You can’t predict that until you’re there.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rose with Raymond James.
Just a follow-up on other energy questions.
Do you have a sense for kind of debt to EBITDA levels for your companies on average and how that change your energy companies on average how that changed with the access to the capital markets? Obviously the lower that leverage goes the better it is for loss content.
Thanks.
I don’t have an aggregate statistic for you.
Obviously the cash flow leverage of many borrowers as increases as cash flows have decreased but our focus really is on more on balance sheet leverage because it’s really capital and liquidity that are important in downturns and that’s what really gets our borrowers through downturns.
And so not that cash flow leverage isn’t important; we look at that as well but balance sheet leverage is probably our main focus.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Stephens Incorporated.
Just a question for Karen.
The $130 million increase in tech and regulatory expenses this year is that a good run rate as we look out into 2016 or some of that kind of a build-up of investments that should tail off into next year? The increase in those expenses are mostly headcount related and so that is something that should stick for the run rate.
Small amount of consulting expenses which depending on what happens may or may not stick in the run rate but it’s a very small piece of it.
In terms of just technology in general we do expect to have these increased technology expenses at least over the next few years.
And then as a follow-up sorry to go back to energy but did any of the reserve build or increase in criticized loans come from that $725 million portfolio that you identified I believe last quarter? I believe you’re referring to our energy related portfolio.
Correct yes.
I would say a relatively minor piece of it came from that.
The energy related portfolio is really a very broad segment and one end of the spectrum you have those life sciences companies that I spoke about earlier and then the other end of the spectrum are really refineries which had no impact.
So most of the negative migration has really been in that technology and life sciences segment.
And I think I’ve noted earlier it was quite small about 85 million in total loan balances.
Your next question comes from the line of David Darst with Guggenheim Securities.
When you look at your commercial lending fees have a higher percentage of those been generated from energy loans or is that spread out among other commercial and commercial real estate credits? Our commercial lending fees are spread across all of our credits David.
They did decline a little bit this quarter mainly due to a little bit lower syndication activity and because we saw an increase in our line utilization we had lower commitment fees.
Is historically more of your syndication activity has been done within energy funding? No.
Typically where we lead syndications is more on the middle market space than in the energy space.
Your next question comes from the line of John Moran with Macquarie Capital.
Just one more on energy.
The SNC as a percentage of the energy book I’m not mistaking was about 75% or so last quarter; is that unchanged? John it’s actually higher than that; about -- it’s over 90% of our energy book -- line of business book are shared national credits.
And another way of looking at it is 30% of our shared national credit book is energy which is the largest segment.
And the regulatory exam on that happens now twice a year so that gives another hard look in 4Q if I’m correct? The actual increase in shared national credit reviews; this really sets up in 2016.
There will be a pilot that is done later in this year but it’s not schedule to step up until 2016.
And just to make one other comment about that I just wanted to follow-up with that 30%.
Again the rest of our shared national credit portfolio outside of energy continues to perform it really really well.
I think for Karen on the HQLA build and I just want to make sure that I got the numbers right.
It sounds like 500 million in five-year senior swapped at six month LIBOR plus 75 and was deployed in the 200 million five-year U.S treasuries at one and half.
Would you expect the kind of 1 to 3 billion in build between now and the end of ‘16 being similar sort of assets because I think there is some banks that are going a little bit longer and getting yields kind of in the twos on some of this.
Our focus on the securities portfolio is to maintain highly liquid highly rated short duration securities.
And particularly in this low rate environment we are very mindful of our asset sensitive position and not prematurely altering that upside.
So if the low rate environment continues you can expect us to continue to execute our LCR strategy in a similar fashion to what we did this past quarter.
Again how we look at our securities book will be focused on not giving up our asset sensitivity upside to prematurely.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Barker with Compass Point.
I was hoping you could expand on how much of your construction and development loans are within Houston MSA or other potential areas of MSA.
From a CRE perspective overall the Houston if you look at Texas Texas is about 28% of total commercial real estate for us and the Houston market makes us about 40% of that number; the rest of it would be outside of the Houston market.
Pete you might comment on the credit performance that we’ve seen.
The commercial real estate portfolio in Houston continues to perform really well; it’s largely apartment construction portfolio.
We have about 20 projects; we have five that are fully complete and in lease up and all five of them are seeing rents at or above pro forma levels.
So the portfolio is performing really well.
And we tend to focus on long time customers.
We do.
We have very strong national developers in that Houston market.
And typically we have 30% to 35% cash equity in these projects; our loan to values range from 50% to 60%.
So even though we haven’t seen any decrease in rents yet we do expect there could be pressure on rents as this more supply comes on line in next 18 months.
But if we do we still think our projects would be in great shape because of the structures that we have.
And also almost no office exposure at all.
We are seeing outside of the Houston market and there are some opportunities in the rest of Texas especially in the DFW area.
Continuing to see a lot of them.
And then what percentage of your commercial real estate specifically expenses [ph] are oil or hotel -- I mean office or hotel and not necessarily construction? Hotels and office are not a segment that we are actively pursuing at all.
So the portion that would be hotel would be negligible and the portion that is office would be quite small.
Your next question comes from the line of Jordan Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
I was just wondering that small energy tax portfolio; is that included in the energy prospect you mention is that separate? Yes I think your question was is our energy related piece included in the energy numbers in the deck? Yes.
What I would say is our energy technology or TLS business is part of what we’ve included in the additional approximately $725 million loans which we’re calling energy related.
That is not part of our energy line of business; it’s really driven from some middle market small business technology life sciences companies outside of our energy line of business.
But at $725 million; it’s not a large number.
My second question is syndicated flows; they’re not up to review until next year.
So if there is deterioration in the energy portion of that book; will that be included in the reserves you took this quarter or it only be related to the energy flows in your book than you currently control? Yes it’s a whole book.
We’re looking at our risk ratings continuously throughout the year and irrespective of that is the shared national credit exam this fall or next frame; we’re going to look at them the same way.
So the answer is yes then and what includes the shared national credit this reserve? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Gokhale with Janney Montgomery.
You talked quite a bit about the provisioning for the energy portfolio but there is just something I would like to just clarify in terms of the mechanics because Karen you referred to slide 19 because one of the drivers of your reserves and provisions clearly is the dollar amount of loans outstanding.
And we can see that there has been a decline in the size of the energy portfolio and you can see the trend as you referred to during the last down cycle.
So just to make sure I am trying -- at least think of the basics of the mechanics correctly.
If you assume that that portfolio the energy portfolio should shrink on a quarterly basis by between $200 million to $250 million a quarter then the question becomes on what pace do criticize loans increase as the offset potentially.
So that’s one thing.
And then the other thing would probably be what level of energy prices oil prices you factored in.
And I think you talked about it and suggested that.
In your assumptions you assume that energy -- that oil prices are actually below current level.
So if my thinking is right on the mechanics of that that suggests that again borrowing an increase in criticized loans that exceeds the decline in your average -- in your loan portfolio unless that happens and your provisioning level should actually fall going forward compared to Q2 levels.
I mean am I thinking of that correctly specifically as far as it relates to this portfolio? I think we expect to happen we expect to see continued run-off in the energy portfolio and we expect that our criticized portion of the energy portfolio will also continue to run-off.
We saw that in the past quarter and we expect to see it in future quarters.
It’s hard for us to figure out how much of that run-off is going to offset any additional migration that we expect in the portfolio over the next quarter or two but we think that it will be significant.
And again we purposely aren’t giving a provision outlook for next quarter or the quarter after really because it is difficult to predict.
And then can you give us a sense of the magnitude of the loss severity again that you assumed in this energy portfolio in your book? The loss severity in terms of the portfolio is that what you’re referring to Sameer? In terms of the loans where you actually took reserve additional provisions for those specific loans that were criticized and you need to provide for those what was the loss severity you’d assumed on those loans? So we have to risk rate our portfolio based on definitions of impairment and definitions of -- there is different definitions that we have to follow and they don’t necessarily relate to losses that we expect in the portfolio.
Again the vast majority of our energy book are really well-secured loans.
And we don’t think that it will necessarily translate into credit losses that might be normally associated with a typical substandard C&amp;I credit.
Your next question is from the line of Tom Hennessy with CLSA.
Actually it’s Mike Mayo for Tom.
Just some clarification to 90% of the energy book is shared national credit and of those what percent are you lead agent on and how is the line utilization change on those credits? We don’t disclose the number of deals.
I don’t believe that we agent.
Again I can tell you that we’re not the agent on the vast majority of them.
And it goes along with our energy strategy.
We want to deal with a certain segment of the energy industry and it’s the segment that we feel -- it has the least risk.
And we can’t use our own balance sheet in the vast majority of cases to agent those kinds of deals.
So that’s why we are more often than not a participant and not the agent.
And on line utilization Mike in the energy business our line utilization did decrease to 48% from 50% last quarter commitments also declined.
And is that because you’re reducing the access to the companies or because the custodies are drawing down less? I think it’s because these companies are operating within your cash flow and they’re paying down debt appropriately.
And the catalyst for the $300 million increase in criticized loans was that an internal review; was that regulatory; it’s a combination? Yes it has to do with our risk ratings and we don’t distinguish between how loans get risk rated at certain way.
So it’s really a reflection of fact that we have risk rated the credits we think appropriately and those are the reserves that are associated with them.
And then lastly the buybacks at what point would you slow or stop buyback because what you’re saying? You said you are not indicating a provision outlook for the next couple of quarters.
On the one handed if times get tougher than you expect maybe you want to conserve capital on the other hand I mean regulators and industry already stress test you are pretty vigorously and you’re buying back stock after summing that stress maybe you should just keep buying back through even a tougher cycle.
Kind of what’s your thought on that? And what do you think the regulators’ thoughts are on that? That’s one we have to look at like we were talking about earlier.
It depends what’s going on at the time and we will make a decision accordingly like we have in the past when we’ve seen smooth economies and things going the right way but also things have slowed down and we need to make a decision to be more cautious about returning capital.
But I would underline that we always have looked at maximizing the amount of capital that we have returned that we can’t use to our shareholders.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Ralph Babb Chairman and CEO for any closing remarks.
I would just thank you all for being here today and your interest in Comerica and hope everyone has a good day.
Thank you.
Thank you again for joining us today.
This does conclude today’s conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning.
And welcome to Comerica’s third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; President Curtis Farmer; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Chief Credit Officer Pete Guilfoile; and Executive Vice President of the Business Bank Pat Faubion.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC’s Web site as well as in the Investor Relations section of our Web site comerica.com.
As we review our third quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I’d like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to vary materially from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statements contained in the release issued today as well as slide two of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC for factors that may cause actual results to differ.
Also the conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I’d direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on slide three.
Good morning.
Our third quarter results demonstrate benefits of our geographic and business line diversity.
Our trusted advisor approach to relationship banking continues to make a positive difference.
Today we reported third quarter 2015 net income of $136 million compared to $135 million for the second quarter and a $154 million for the third quarter of 2014.
Earnings per diluted share were $0.74 for the third quarter of 2015 compared to $0.73 for the second quarter and $0.82 for the third quarter 2014.
Turning to Slide 4 and highlights from our third quarter results average loans were up $1.8 billion or 4% compared to a year-ago.
Average loans increased $139 million to $49 billion compared to the second quarter with increases in technology and life sciences and commercial real estate offset by decreases in corporate banking due to our continued pricing and structure discipline as well as seasonality in general middle market and the expected run off in energy.
Average deposits grew $4 billion or 7% compared to a year-ago.
Relative to the second quarter average deposits increased $1.7 billion or 3% to $59.1 billion driven by increases in nearly every business line led by general middle market technology and life sciences and corporate banking.
In further comparing our third quarter results to the second quarter net interest income remains stable increasing $1 million to $422 million while the net interest margin declined mainly as a result of having higher balances at the Fed.
Credit quality overall continued to be strong at 19 basis points net charge-offs remain well below the historical normal level and gross charge-offs declined in the quarter.
The provision for credit losses decreased to $26 million.
This marks the fourth consecutive quarter that we have prudently increased our reserves for energy a result of increased -- increasing criticized loans and sustained low energy prices.
Net charge-offs tied to our energy related exposure continue to be low and we had no charge-offs in the energy business line.
While negative credit migration is anticipated any losses are expected to be manageable.
We continue to feel comfortable with our energy portfolio.
Non-interest income was up $3 million to $264 million including increased card fees an area we are focused on continuing to grow as well as growth in several other categories.
This was partially offset by decreases in investment banking fees and fiduciary income due to depressed market conditions.
Non-interest expenses increased $25 million to $461 million primarily reflecting a $3 million net release of litigation reserves in the third quarter compared to a net release of $30 million in the second quarter.
We continue to tightly manage expenses while faced with rising technology and regulatory costs.
Our capital position is solid.
Stock repurchases under our equity repurchase program combined with dividends returned $96 million or 71% of earnings to shareholders in the third quarter.
Turning to Slide 5 and look at our primary markets our most recent economic indexes have tracked data through July in each of our primary markets.
Our Texas index continues to see lighter declines.
Drilling rig count decreased and unemployment insurance claims increased.
We expect the drag from low oil prices to continue into 2016.
However it is important to note that the Texas economy is very diverse.
Average loans and deposits in Texas were each down about 2% compared to the second quarter both impacted by declines in general middle market and energy.
Our California index showed a small decline the first since March.
State exports weakened however the labor market components of the index are showing strength and we expect that to continue through the remainder of the year.
We saw a broad-based average loan and deposit growth in California.
Loans were up $360 million and more than 2% and deposits were up over $1 billion or 6% with growth in almost every business line.
Our Michigan index increased again fuelled by the auto industry as auto production continued to climb.
In fact auto sales on an annualized basis rose to a 10-year high of $18.2 million in September.
Low gasoline prices continued to be a plus for Michigan's economy.
Average loans in Michigan were down slightly while average deposits where up 1% due to seasonality in general middle market.
In closing we believe our geographic footprint is well situated and our relationship banking strategy can drive growth in loans deposits and fee income.
We remained focused on the long-term.
Our conservative consistent approach to banking including credit management investment strategy and capital levels has positioned us well for the future.
And now I'll turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph and good morning.
Turning to Slide 6 third quarter average loans increased $139 million over the second quarter.
Technology and life sciences was the largest contributor to loan growth with $367 million increase driven almost entirely by equity fund services where we provide capital call or subscription lines to venture capital and private equity firms.
Loans in our commercial real estate business line increased $124 million primarily related to multi family.
Mortgage banker loans were up $47 million reflecting our continued market share gain as well as refinance volumes and a pickup in home sales because mortgage banker outstandings tend to move up and down with the home buying season we expect a decline in fall and winter.
And in fact we saw that trend in period end balances.
In addition we had modest average loan growth in several other business lines such as entertainment private banking retail banking and small business.
Partially offsetting this growth corporate banking loans declined $231 million in the quarter as we remain disciplined in this highly competitive environment.
As expected loans in general middle market declined $214 million in conjunction with the typical summer slowdown.
And loans in our energy line of business declined $86 million from continued pay down.
Average dealer loans decreased $26 million.
In fact each successive month in the quarter declined as our customers worked down their inventory prior to receiving new models.
The decline was somewhat less than expected as manufacturers have continued to meet the strong demand along with the fact that we’ve been expanding relationships.
Period end loans declined $799 million to $48.9 billion.
This decline included a decrease in mortgage banker finance reflecting the decline off the summer peak.
In addition we saw decreases in general middle market corporate banking national dealer services and energy for the same reasons I just described.
Increases in technology and life sciences and commercial real estate partially offset the decline.
Total loan commitments decreased $464 million with declines in general middle market and corporate banking as we remain disciplined on pricing and structure as well as mortgage banker due to the expiration of temporary increases in conjunction with seasonality.
Energy commitments also declined.
Technology and life sciences national dealer and commercial real estate commitments grew.
Utilization decreased to 50% at the end of the third quarter from 51% at the end of the second quarter.
Importantly our pipeline increased.
Our loan yields decreased three basis points in the third quarter as shown in the yellow diamond.
The benefit from a one basis point increase and 30 day LIBOR and the favorable impact from higher yields on loans related to energy was more than offset by lower loan fees due to decreased loan activity with the summer slowdown and a decline in portfolio spreads as a result of growth in high-quality lower yielding loans.
Turning to slide -- to deposits on Slide 7 average deposits increased $1.7 billion in the third quarter driven by a $1.3 billion increase in non-interest bearing deposit.
Virtually every business line posted growth led by general middle market technology and life sciences and corporate banking.
Period end deposits increased $508 million to $58.8 billion.
We continue to prudently manage deposit pricing while remaining at 14 basis points.
Slide 8 shows our securities portfolio increased as we continue to position ourselves for compliance with the new liquidity coverage ratio or LCR.
We tapped the market in July issuing $350 million in subordinated debt and an additional $175 million in senior bank debt both of which we swapped to floating.
We invested a portion of the proceeds $350 million in a combination of five-year treasury and Ginnie Mae CMO.
This strategy allowed us to minimize any impact to both earnings and our asset sensitive position.
As you know we are required to have an LCR of 90% by January 1 2016 and 100% by January 1 2017.
As of quarter end our estimated LCR ratio meet that fully phased-in 2017 requirements reflecting our loan and deposit movement in addition to the debt issuance.
Any future funding needs for LCR purposes will depend on our balance sheet movement and strategies over time.
Should we need to add HQLA we continue to have several funding option including our federal home loan bank line of credit broker deposit and the public debt market.
We continue to carefully manage the securities portfolio maintaining an estimated duration under four years.
In the current rate environment we expect continued minor pressure on the average securities yield as you can see in the yellow diamond on the slide.
Turning to Slide 9 net interest income increased $1 million in the third quarter.
One additional day in the quarter and loan growth were partly offset by lower loan yields which I discussed earlier.
Increased expense from the debt issuance was mostly offset by higher securities and deposits at the Fed.
Our net interest margin decreased 11 basis points with more than half of that decline due to higher balances at the Fed.
Compared to third quarter of 2014 net interest income increased $8 million largely due to loan growth.
We continue to be well positioned to benefit when rates rise.
Our standard asset liability case shows that a 200 basis points increase in rates over a one-year period equivalent to a 100 basis points on average would result in an increase to net interest income of about $220 million.
We also share in the appendix several alternative assumptions to our standard case with changes to the pace of deposit decline loan growth and rate rises.
And in all cases we remain well positioned for rising rates.
Turning to Slide 10 our overall credit picture remains solid.
Net charge-offs were 19 basis points or $23 million derived mainly from technology and life sciences and energy related loans.
Overall net charge-offs remain well below what is historically normal for us.
Gross charge-offs declined slightly while recoveries were down primarily due to timing.
Our criticized loans grew $537 million to $2.9 billion or about 6% of total loans which is well below our historical average.
The increase was driven by a $480 million increase in criticized loans related to energy.
Inflows to non-accruals declined from the second quarter and were $69 million of which $25 million were energy related.
Total non-accrual loans were stable at only 73 basis points to total loans.
Specific to energy the fall re-determination process has just begun for our E&amp;P customers which comprise 69% of our energy business line.
With continued low energy prices and reduction in rig count we expect some pressure on borrowing bases.
However we do not expect widespread issues to arise as our borrowers overall continued to act prudently in this low price environment.
In fact utilization in our energy line of business remained flat at 48% at quarter end.
As anticipated we continue to see negative migration in the energy book which has resulted in an increase in criticized loans.
However non-accrual loans and charge-offs have remained low.
As of quarter end approximately 27% or $1.1 billion of the loans related to energy were considered criticized.
However this includes only $126 million of non-accruals equivalent to 3% of energy loan and is up only $7 million from the second quarter.
We had no charge-offs in our energy business line and modest charge offs in energy-related loan and as expected loans continue to decline with our energy business line down $66 million and energy-related down over $100 million to about $650 million at quarter end.
The $26 million provision for our total portfolio reflected charge-offs as well as slightly higher reserves.
Reserves for technology and life sciences loans increased due to modestly higher charge-offs.
And we not only added to our energy reserve due to an increase in criticized loans but we also continue to maintain a healthy qualitative reserve.
It is important to note that while we have continued to increase the reserves for energy we believe that the charge-offs will remain manageable.
In summary our consistent robust methodology resulted in a $2 million increase to the allowance for credit losses to $670 million and the coverage of our non-performing loans remains very strong at 1.7x.
Slide 11 outlines non-interest income which increased $3 million to $264 million.
Card fees increased $3 million due to higher revenue from merchant processing services and interchange.
We also had growth in foreign exchange and brokerage fees.
This was partially offset by declines in investment banking fees and fiduciary income which were impacted by the poor market environment.
We also had several items that are difficult to predict specifically a $4 million benefit from hedges on recently issued debt a $3 million increase in customer warrant related income and a $5 million decrease in deferred compensation which is offset in non-interest expense.
As a reminder the year-over-year view of both non-interest income and non-interest expense is not directly comparable.
Each quarter this year reflects an accounting presentation that reports the gross revenues and expenses rather than net revenue for our cards program.
Turning to Slide 12 non-interest expenses increased $25 million.
This included a $3 million legal reserve release in the third quarter compared to the $30 million release we recorded in the second quarter resulting in a $27 million swing.
Absent the change in legal reserves expenses declined $2 million mainly due to items that are tough to forecast including a decrease in deferred comp a forfeiture of executive stock awards and lower staff insurance.
As expected occupancy expenses were seasonally higher and software technology related contract labor increased.
Moving to Slide 13 and capital management.
As the chart indicates we continue to return excess capital to our shareholders in a meaningful way with a payout of 71% of third quarter earnings.
In the third quarter we repurchased 1.2 million shares for $59 million under the equity repurchase program.
As you might recall the Federal Reserve scenario in the stress tests incorporated a gradual increase in interest rate over the forecast period starting in the second quarter of 2015.
While the rate rise has yet to occur you can expect that any material increase in the pace of our equity repurchases will be linked to our net income performance which should improve with rising interest rates over time.
Turning to Slide 14 our outlook for full year 2015 compared to full year 2014 has not changed from what we outlined at the beginning of the year and reiterated on our call in July.
Our expectations for the fourth quarter related to the third quarter shown on this slide are based on a continuation of the current economic and interest rate environment.
Starting with loans we expect average balances to be relatively stable with a seasonal decrease in mortgage banker and continued decline in energy offset by growth in other businesses.
We expect our net interest income to also be relatively stable.
The positive effects from asset growth and a third quarter debt maturity should approximately offset the continued pressure from the low rate environment on loan and security yields.
With continued strong overall credit quality we expect the provision to remain low similar to what we saw in the third quarter.
As far as the energy portfolio we expect continued negative credit migration continued run-off in balances and a very manageable level of non-accrual and charge-offs.
Overall we expect non-interest income to increase slightly.
We expect continued growth in card fees and should markets improved return of growth in fiduciary and investment banking fees.
The quarter levels of warrants income hedge and effectiveness and deferred comp all of which are difficult to predict are not expected to be repeated.
Non-interest expenses are expected to be moderately higher due to seasonally higher staff benefits outside processing marketing occupancy technology related and consulting expenses.
Also litigation reserve release deferred comp and stock forfeiture levels benefited the third quarter and are difficult to predict therefore are not expected to be repeated.
We continue to remain focused on controlling expenses wherever possible.
In closing we are pleased with the continued loan and robust deposit growth as well as increased revenue.
Overall our credit quality remains strong.
We remain focused on the long-term and we expect that as rates rise our revenue picture looks even brighter.
As always we believe our relationship banking strategy combined with diverse geographic footprint will continue to assist us in building long-term shareholder value.
Now operator we would like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O’Neil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
Good morning guys.
First question maybe on energy I expect to hear a bunch of them I guess but so the migration into non-accrual and certainly with no charge-offs has all been very very good.
I just wonder now that energy prices have at least kind of stabilized does that give you guys any confidence that there is very low migration level from say criticized into non-accrual can continue to stay very low or is it still just the duration of softness in energy prices that will drive the ultimate migration performance? Pete why don’t you take that? Pat you can chime in as well.
Sure.
Yes Scott I think the same pattern that we -- we’ve seen over the past quarter will continue.
We are seeing some migration in the portfolio still but we’re not seeing a lot of migration to non-accrual and we haven’t seen a lot of charge-offs.
That’s been consistent with what our expectation has been right from the beginning and it’s exactly what we’re seeing.
We’re seeing a lot of these credits get resolved before they go to non-accrual.
In fact we continue to get large pay-offs of substandard credits and we just got one I think a week or two ago.
So we’re encouraged by that.
We think that’s going to continue and I don’t see any reason why it would change with energy prices where they’re today.
Pat something to add to that? The only thing I would add to that Scott is something that’s really helped us is that 97% of our portfolio was secured and we’ve used the same engineers for years and years and that’s holding up very well.
So our borrowers are really behaving responsibly at this time in the market.
That’s perfect.
All right.
Thank you very much.
And then if I can switch gears really quickly Karen a lot of movement within the balance sheet between some of your guys’ issuances and then just the strong deposit growth and everything.
Can you maybe just sort of encapsulate how much of the movement and I guess the resulting pressure on the margin was maybe transitory as funds were just sort of waiting to be fully deployed or its kind of timing within the quarter what was the nature of some of those moves? In other words could we expect maybe some relief on the margin even though there will still be net downward pressure? How do you see those things playing off one another? Sure.
Scott if you’re talking about the net interest rate margin … Yes.
… or actual rate NIM obviously the biggest impact on that was the increased balances of the Fed which on a period end basis were driven by increased deposit and decreased loans.
And so that can move so the balances that we have at the Fed can clearly more on a period end basis.
The impact on the NIM from a securities yield and a loan yield perspective securities yield continued to be impacted by the lower yielding on our prepay reinvestments and the fact that we’ve added treasury to our portfolio.
The loan yield has bounced around a little bit over the last several quarters up and down and really does depend on the movement that we have in our portfolio depending on the relative loan yield in the area that is growing or declining.
So the overall impact on NIM is most impacted by balances of the Fed which you pointed out and little impact from securities yield and then hopefully continued somewhat stable impact from loan yield.
Okay.
That's perfect.
Thank you guys very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Erika.
Hi good morning.
I'm sorry to re-ask the question again but in terms of your outlook for flat provision for the fourth quarter will your fall re-determination process be completely done and captured in that fourth quarter results? Pete? Yes hello Erika.
We expect that it will be through the re-determination process really by the end of November.
Got it.
And Karen just as a follow-up to the last question.
Could you give us a little bit of a sense in terms of your decision tree with regard to keeping the cash at the Fed versus extending duration to protect the margin and given your comments that you are already compliant with the 2017 standard for LCR I'm wondering what your thoughts were in terms of deploying that into HQLA more aggressively or are you waiting to see how much of this deposit growth sticks with you? You know anymore movement into securities would obviously dampen the upside that we would have as rates rise and we continue to remain very mindful of the fact that as rates rise we will have a mark to market on our securities portfolio which can impact our tangible capital.
So we will continue to watch the environment and be fluid but we remain mindful of the fact that investors are focused on our asset sensitivity upside.
Got it.
And just one final one from me Ralph given your comments that some of this energy pressure is going to persist into next year and the market seems to be less optimistic about the trajectory of the short end of the curve next year I'm wondering how you're thinking about sort of the -- in case of emergency break glass plan for next year are there further expenses to potentially improve the efficiency ratio in light of a more difficult revenue back drop any sort of thoughts on how you're thinking about 2016 as the environment seems to be getting a little less friendly especially for a model like yours that's so tethered to the short end of the curve? Well we are constantly looking at that as you may remember from previous calls and we have been very focused on expenses and also growing relationships and I think the growing relationships especially in the footprint that we have is the largest opportunity for us moving forward.
We will continue to look at expenses as we always have but that in itself is one that will not offset by itself the expenses we need going forward especially on the regulatory and the compliance side.
So growing the business and as we normally would and focus on is probably number one today.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Ken good morning.
Great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Maybe a question on the provision expense or at least how you’re think about it as it relates to energy trying to tie your comments that you're going to see further credit migration in the energy portfolio and knowing that you do have to sort of mathematically hold higher reserves against loans that see deterioration in the risk ratings is it fair to assume that that we should be expecting again further reserve build in the energy book but then -- but to keep your provision as low as you’re guiding it to be sort of in that mid $20 million range that you’re actually relying on further credit improvements in other areas? Pete you want to take that? Yes Ken we’re starting off the quarter with a healthy qualitative reserve and that reserve is in place because we’re looking at the fall re-determination process and we’re expecting some migration to come out of that with energy prices being a little bit lower than where they were in the spring.
We are also expecting with rig counts where they’re that fewer borrowers will report higher energy reserves and that could put a little bit of pressure on borrowing basis so we are expecting some migration but we think our qualitative reserve that we’ve will be -- will suffice to cover that migration.
Got it.
So it's almost just moving from one bucket to the next rather than increasing the total bucket? We're trying to stay ahead of it.
Understood.
That totally makes sense.
And then just more of a generic question you talk about like your energy customers obviously I know you know them you know the credits but help me reconcile so I’m going to say roughly $3 billion of your -- which is the vast majority of your energy loans are shared national credits.
How many of those energy companies are like -- are you the primary bank for that you have the core relationship for versus I don’t know someone like Wells Fargo or is there someone else that has the core relationship? Pat? We are the agent for less than 20% of our energy portfolio.
But we do have a direct relationship with every single client in the book and many many times that is a multi multi year relationship.
Okay great.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
Regarding the pretty steep increase in the energy criticized loans what was the main component of the driver was it E&amp;P or oil service? Pete? Yes I think the energy services segment of the business has been the most impacted.
But bear in mind the energy services segment is much smaller than the E&amp;P.
So I would say that both were a factor this quarter.
This quarter we moved some credits to criticize simply because of the expectation the energy prices are going to remain low and that for an extended period of time.
And so if there was any operational weakness at all we move these credits to special mention and the thing I would say about that is is that our feelings about these credits hasn’t changed.
Most of these credits have very strong balance sheets we’re well secured.
We don’t expect the risk of loss to increase as a result of us moving these credits.
We just didn’t feel like we could justify keeping the past credits given how long energy prices have been where they are.
Okay.
All right.
And then I guess some of the quantifications would help a little bit more for example the -- what was the size of the addition to your energy loan loss reserve in the third quarter? We don’t give out that specific information.
But what I would say is that we have increased our reserves to energy every quarter for the past four quarters since the price started to move down and we -- I’ve mentioned that we maintain a healthy qualitative reserve.
And at the same time I think it’s important to realize during that same timeframe that our energy balances have also declined.
Okay.
And on that front Karen is it -- can you help us with how to think about the incremental decline in energy loan balances over the next several quarters even if oil prices stay where they are? That’s difficult to predict exactly but in the appendix of the deck we do give quarter-by-quarter movement in our energy portfolio and you can see the last decline what it did on balances.
Pat do you want to comment on that? Yes we do expect reductions as a result of the upcoming re-determination but we’ve also been advised from our clients of about $250 million in commitments today which would translate to $125 million in outstandings that we expect to confirm payoffs on based upon mergers or sales that are happening within the industry.
Okay.
And then lastly I know you indicated that the fall re-determination should be over by November.
But what's also happening in the winter is the the SNC exam which is now partly semi-annual I guess for large banks.
Will you be part of that? Well we’re always a part of it because we’re involved in Shared National Credit.
So all the same credits are being examined.
Our SNC exam will not be until spring of next year but we’re involved in the credits that will be examined in the fall and we don’t expect any impact from that.
Our regulators are looking at our energy book all the time in fact they looked at it just recently.
And I think we’re on the same page as to where the risk rating should be on the portfolio.
So I’m not anticipating any issues coming out the SNC exam.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Ken.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning Ralph.
A question just on kind of non-energy and just regular loan growth.
Can you just talk to us a little bit about just the State of Affairs in non-energy Texas and also I noticed that just the kind of non-energy middle markets and corporate banking also look like they declined.
So just some flavor in terms of just underlying borrower demand and what's going on at the core in Texas pleases? Curt do you want to talk about overall and Pat you can talk in Texas.
Yes what I would say from an overall perspective we continue to benefit while we’re seeing some impact from energy more broadly in Texas that Pat can speak to.
We continue to benefit from a diverse geographic footprint and as Ralph mentioned in his opening comments the California market continues to perform well for us really across a variety of our core businesses as well as our specialized businesses on both the loan and deposit side of the equation and we’re starting to see some nice improvement in the overall Michigan economy tied to the auto industry the lower gas prices.
But just in general improvement in unemployment real estate values et cetera in the Michigan market.
So we feel like we still have growth opportunities in both of those markets which is helping to offset some of the what we hope is at least a near-term impact in Texas.
But I would also say that from a longer term perspective we continue to be very bullish on the Texas economy at large.
Pat do you have anything to add there.
Well I’ll just add further that Texas is surrendering its lead growth within our company to California and we’re already pleased to see what California has contributed.
But also Michigan has come on very strong and many good things are going on in Michigan and including in Detroit.
The Texas economy has a direct impact of about 15% from oil and gas but the hangover so to speak is affecting quite a bit of our businesses.
And as noted our balances are down in Texas about 2% for the quarter and I think the best indicator for that is be our economic activity index which shows nine straight monthly declines so it’s just confirmed by the general economy.
Understood.
And carrying a follow-up can you help us understand on the expense side the -- kind of what was the magnitude of those non-repeatable benefits that you had in the third quarter and can you also help us understand what the step up -- seasonal step up might look like in the fourth from the -- all the lines that you mentioned? Yes so outlined on our expense slide the levels of expenses that may not be repeated would be the hedging ineffectiveness the warrant related income and the deferred comp.
In addition to that as we outlined just for the quarter-over-quarter outlook that we do expect increases in several other categories.
Staff insurance is something that typically rises in the third quarter -- in the fourth quarter occupancy expenses marketing expenses consulting expenses.
We are continuing to invest in technology so technology related expenses et cetera.
Okay.
So I mean is it fair to say that kind of like that helper this quarter were about $10 million and then you get another $10 million on top of that? We expect our expenses to moderately increase quarter-over-quarter and in moderate you can assume sort of mid single digit levels.
Okay.
Understood.
Thanks Karen.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Dave Rochester with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Dave.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
I just had a bigger picture question on credit.
I was just trying to figure out how criticized loans increased by over $500 million but the reserve only increased by maybe a few million.
Can you just talk about what your typical reserve is on special mention or substandard loans and I realize NPAs were stable; it’s just that I’ve heard some pretty large reserve percentages out there that some banks have signed to criticize the assets? Pete.
Yes we don’t disclose specifically our reserves on particular credits but bear in mind that our reserves come in two different forms one is the side big [ph] reserves which are very specific to our non-accrual loans and then the other would be our standard reserves which are what we assigned generally to different categories of special mention and substandard credits.
So we did have migration in the portfolio but the make up of that migration makes a difference on what our reserves are going to be.
For instance our E&amp;P credits are much better secured than some of our other C&amp;I loans and so we might not have the same amount of reserves assigned to those E&amp;P credits as we would say our energy services credits that are migrating.
So it’s difficult to exactly equate migration to the amount of reserves that we have.
Got you.
Thanks for that.
And then you mentioned you are just starting the re-determination process so I mean just wondering how much you’ve done at this point? And then we’ve heard other banks with energy exposure talk about price tax coming down somewhere in the high singles to mid-teens type of range for the fall re-determinations.
Is that what you guys are seeing as well in terms of magnitude? Yes I think we’d be consistent with that.
We’re about 15% to 20% of the way through the process right now.
And so far we’re not seeing anything unusual.
We’re not seeing any wide spread deficiencies very similar to what we saw in the spring.
Wouldn’t be surprised if we see more collateral deficiencies this fall than what we saw in spring because very frankly we didn’t see a lot in the spring but so far it’s going well.
And how much have lines come in just on average for the credits you’ve examined so far? Do you mean how much foreign basis have shrunk? Yes exactly.
Yes its -- I’m almost hesitant to generalize from what we’ve seen so far.
But we’ve actually have seen a fair number of credits their borrowing base is actually increased and our loan to values decrease.
And we’ve seen just about as many of those -- seen as many loan to value decrease as we’ve seen increase.
But it’s still early and I’m not necessarily sure that’s going to hold through the whole process.
It’d be great if it did but I’m not sure if it will.
And then I know last quarter you said you were still kind of going through the re-risk grading for the service portfolio.
Is that segment done at this point and when do you typically when will you look at that again? Yes we’re looking at it all the time it’s a continuous process.
We’ve been through the portfolio probably two or three times.
Okay got you.
All right great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Terry.
Hi good morning.
Just a small question.
It looks like recoveries in energy happened in the third quarter net charge-offs through the first two quarters were $10 million in energy and then it fell year-to-date to $3 million.
Could you just talk about any recoveries and what was behind that? Pete.
We didn’t have any substantial recoveries in energy this quarter.
We just had lower charge-offs.
We did not have a lot -- we didn’t have any charge-offs in the line of business whatsoever and we had just a hand full of energy related charge-offs.
So we were encouraged by that.
Okay.
And then just on Michigan in middle market lending do you expect to see or are you starting to see a pick up from the typical slowdown you see in that market during the summer months.
Yes you’re correct Terry we do see a dip in the summer but we also see a resurge in the fourth quarter and we do expect to see that.
That’s great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Bob.
Hi good morning.
A lot of my question have been answered and I hate to belabor energy but out of curiosity why don’t you all disclose what the energy reserve is? Bob we firmly believe that the allowance is there to cover any and all losses and so we think it might be misleading to give specifics around any one portfolio and that’s the key reason.
Okay.
I know you all said that most of in that charge-offs this quarter came from technology and life sciences as well as energy.
But I was just wondering if you could tell me what the dollar amount in that charge-offs was on the energy book this quarter? Pete.
Yes I could.
It came from the energy related.
Yes.
Of the energy related.
Energy related okay.
And maybe while you dig that number up I’ll ask as well I know you highlighted 27% of the energy book is criticized today.
Can you just remind me how that compares to the peak in the last cycle? I don’t know if we have the peak criticized in the last cycle offhand.
We can't answer your question for energy related charge-off can't talk about that.
Yes our energy related charge-offs sorry for the delay -- was about $9 million for the quarter.
Great.
If you don’t have the exact criticized number do you have any sense or any sort of outlook as to whether you expect this energy cycle to be similar in terms of where things peak or whether you think that the trajectory looks better or worse? I would expect we’re going to see continued migration but I think it’s going to be at the slower pace.
We’re seeing somewhat of a bifurcation in the portfolio.
There are certain credits that just are not migrating at all primarily because they have just such strong balance sheet and/or they are more gas weighted than oil weighted.
They don’t expect to see those credits migrate.
A lot of the higher levered more oily credits have already migrated.
So you’re not going to see any of that.
So I think we will see more migration but I think it will be at a slower pace.
Great.
And then last question shifting gears to capital.
It looks like the pace of share repurchase is sort of running below what if I simply took your CCAR authorization and divided it by five quarters would come out to be.
I know you all said the pace of buybacks is linked to performance and will be higher in a higher rate environment.
But I’m just curious is it not still your intent to fully execute on that CCAR authorization before it expires regardless of kind of what happens to rate and performance? Karen.
Yes so in the stress test scenarios that were laid out by the fed they did have a decent size interest rate increase over the nine quarter forecast which started in the second quarter of ’15 and went on through 2016.
Obviously as rates rise meaningfully that can have a good impact on our bottom line.
And so you can expect that our share repurchase program going forward will be tied to both our strong capital levels and to our net income performance and so we will wait and see.
Okay.
But over the horizon of this CCAR authorization; if rates do not move during this authorization period would you still complete the existing authorization or would you scale it back? Honestly it depends on earnings Bob.
Earnings can be impacted by many things but interest rates are one of the biggest drivers of growth and earnings.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Brett.
Hi.
Good morning Ralph.
I wanted to make sure I understood guidance just thinking about the outlook for the fourth quarter in terms of average loans.
I think given the mortgage banker seasonally lower and continued decline in energy and maybe thinking about the pipeline being lower.
Can you maybe talk about the average balance being flattish or relatively stable I guess is the term you used in the fourth quarter kind of versus in the period being quite a bit lower than average in 3Q? Yes so Brett I would say that important to know that our pipeline did increase at the end of this quarter going into the fourth quarter so that is good times for our other lines of business.
We did note that we expect continued declines in energy we have talked about that.
On mortgage banker finance we also expect seasonal declines.
The amount of those declines are difficult to predict.
You can see in our appendix the fact that we’ve got quarter-over-quarter movement in our mortgage banker business and in the last couple of years we have seen seasonal declines sometimes as large as $500 million but again very difficult to exactly predict.
Okay.
And then just want to make sure I was understanding you’re obviously very mindful of higher interest rates and the effect on the securities portfolio.
Karen what is your assumption for interest rates next year as you think about managing the balance sheet? That is anybody’s guess.
When we think about managing the balance sheet on securities we continue to have prepays on our securities portfolio that range in the $240 million to $250 million yield area and we are focused on reinvesting those prepays as best we can at yields at or above our current portfolio yield but very difficult to say where those yields will be next year.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you for the color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Klock with Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Brian.
Good morning.
Good morning Ralph.
Good morning everyone.
So I wanted to kind of follow-up on the discussion about the pipeline and I guess your outlook.
Thinking about I came over the -- its been a while since we’ve seen commitment then utilization rates drop and obviously there’s a lot of energy related issues there and some maybe even like you said some of the seasonality that you see at mortgage banker finance.
I guess I’m just thinking about the guidance again about period end loans being down almost $800 million in the third quarter but average is expected to be flat.
So I guess my first question is is that partially because you think that the dealer floor plan which usually has a good fourth quarter is that expected to kind of come in and help to grow balances in the core C&amp;I book for the fourth quarter that’s my first question.
Yes the answer to that is yes.
Our dealer floor plan obviously does have seasonality did see some declines in the third quarter and we do expect it to come back a bit from those declines.
Okay.
And then in the overall I might just say that across the markets we do feel good about the pipeline in sort of general middle market and some of our smaller businesses small business private banking and even retail which we don’t talk a lot about but a few lock many consumer lending and so there are some other areas that beyond the decline that we’re expecting in energy and mortgage banker finance that I think will be contributors in addition to the normal seasonality and dealer financial services.
Thanks for that Curt.
I guess I can follow-up on that with you it seemed like even JP Morgan business bank their middle market line of business was down in the third quarter it was down for you guys $364 million.
I guess what are you seeing that makes you feel good about the fourth quarter in that line of business since it’s about 30 year total loan portfolio? Pat do you want to add to that? Sure.
Our middle market business is historically down in that third quarter.
We have looked at it for the last 15 to 18 years and it’s a very repeatable trend and it does bounce back in the fourth quarter.
How we feel good about that is as we look at the pipeline and we manage that in every market and what we’re hearing is that we would expect new credits new clients as well as increases to some existing relationships.
Okay.
Thank you for that and just one last one for me if Pete I don’t think you gave it this quarter yet I think you gave it to us last quarter.
I guess what the oil and gas or energy related they are the $1.1 billion in criticized.
Is the make up similar to the E&amp;P in oil filled services in the outstandings or is it -- can you give us an idea of how that $1.1 billion is spread across those customers? Yes.
The segment that’s been most effective has been energy services were a little over 40% criticized there E&amp;P is about 27% mid-steam not been very much affected at all its around 10% to 12% somewhere around there.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Darst with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Good morning David.
Hi good morning.
So I just want to a question on the technology and life sciences business I mean that portfolio has had the largest kind of dollar volume of growth over the past year of same size synergy.
Where could the relative size of that portfolio be and then is any other growth you’ve seen also to fit [ph] the higher losses you’ve seen this year? Pat do you want to? The majority of the growth that we saw in our technology and life sciences business was in our equity fund services group where we provide capital call and subscription lines to venture capital and private equity and typically those are the less risky part of the technology and life science portfolio.
And if there’s anything you’d attribute the higher loss rate through this year? Pete.
Yes David this is Pete Guilfoile its unusual for us to see all bigger charge-offs in TLS they have been up for the last couple of quarters they’re above where we’d like to see them frankly.
But we’re not seeing any systemic issues there we’re not seeing any patterns to the charge-offs.
I really don’t think we’re going to see further deterioration in the portfolio.
But we felt it made sense to increase our reserves and we’re watching it carefully.
But we don’t expect that deterioration to continue in subsequent quarters.
Okay great.
And then Karen just one quick question on the headcount increase this quarter.
Is that related to some of the technology projects you got in place or those frontline sales? Yes it is related to mostly the technology projects.
On the frontline we are very focused on allocating our resources to our greatest growth opportunities but not necessarily adding in the headcount.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Eads with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Following up on the tax question you just got did you give a little bit of color on how you guys think about protections and what makes you comfortable with the exposures in that portfolio I guess particularly on the more risky side if we were to have a more sustained troubles hit the tech market? Pete.
Yes there was a number of things David.
We’ve been in the business a long time so experience is probably the most important thing.
We have relationships with a number of venture capital firms that we’ve been through ups and downs in the cycles many times before so we understand how they react in downturns.
We have a number of different businesses within the technology and life science.
So its much more diversified than you might think even within the technology sector we have a fair amount of diversification not just by industry but by geography and by investor group too.
So I would say the main things we point to are experience the partners that we do business with we’re very selective and then the diversification of the book.
Great thanks.
Thank you.
Just quickly on energy a question can you give any color; I know you guys have not wanted to give any kind of numbers around the reserve.
But the relative size of the quantitative and qualitative reserves and any kind of trends if we’ve seen meaningful shifts from qualitative into quantitative over the last past couple of quarters? Karen.
Yes.
So we don’t give relative sizes either but we do maintain a healthy qualitative reserve as we look forward.
Okay.
I can just tell you that we size our qualitative reserve based on events that we think have already occurred and our risk ratings have not adjusted to yet.
So we think that the migration that we’re going to see this quarter as a result of re-determination processes are events that have already occurred.
So we feel comfortable setting up a qualitative reserve to cover that aspect of the migration.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Moran with Macquarie Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning John.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Just a couple of quick follow-ups the $125 million in outstandings that are expected to pay down out of the energy book would that all hit in 4Q or is that kind of 4Q and then into ’16? Pat.
To the best of my recollection John those are -- those should happen in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
We’ve already been -- that number is based upon information that borrowers have advised us on.
So those opportunities are already in process.
Got it.
Okay thanks.
And then maybe just a follow-up on Texas generally even ex-energy [ph] general middle market is sort of down are you guys experiencing that and it certainly it seems like different MSAs are experiencing this slowdown in different ways.
So if you could give us a little bit of color in terms of kind of what you’ve seen going on by market and then I know you feel good about the pipeline in general but if you had any commentary around the pipeline as related specifically to Texas.
Curt do you want to take that one? Yes I’ll make a couple of comments about Texas overall while there is a general impact from the energy slowdown state wide.
It definitely is being felt more in the Houston market sort of primary probably San Antonio is secondary but if you look at the North Texas market Dallas/Fort Worth it is a more diverse economy less energy dependant.
We are not seeing what I’d call sort of broad impact as of yet in that part of the sector.
But more impact is starting to creep in energy energy related [technical difficulty] but just more broadly probably some longer term impact on home values real estate values et cetera for example in the Houston market.
They’re the huge states so there’s a lot of diversity from economic standpoint.
And Michigan as you were talking about earlier with the auto industry rebounding and there’s a real strength starting and momentum there.
Right yes.
As well as the kind of broad spread growth we’re seeing in California as the economy continues to chug along.
And the various specialized businesses that we have that are unique as well.
Pat do you want to add anything to that? Well just as it relates to Texas the competition for non-energy and non-energy services clients is pretty fierce.
People are not trying to expand their book for that and they’ve redirected their marketing activities towards non-energy companies.
So that’s also impacting our growth in Texas.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just one other quick follow-up on the criticized energy and Karen I don’t know if it was -- we're not sure if we have this or we’re not going to disclose it at this point but somebody has asked where they peaked last cycle and I was wondering if you have tracked that down? Yes we peaked at the high 20s overall in terms of the entire energy book.
Bear in mind that we did not have energy related in that number back in the last cycle.
So we just started reporting energy related in this cycle.
Also the duration of that cycle was shorter.
So it’s not surprising that our criticized levels are a little bit higher this time around for those two reasons.
Pat do you have anything to add? I think we’ve adjusted to say that we examine our book.
We examine it more critically today based upon cash flow as opposed to an asset based book.
The complexion of the portfolio has only gotten better since the last cycle.
It remains secured but we are focusing more succinctly on depressed cash flow this time around.
Got it.
Thanks very much for taking the questions guys.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Steven.
Good morning everyone.
Just a couple of follow-ups no surprise I guess on energy.
Ralph when I look at the energy criticized you were up $329 million last quarter.
This quarter you are up $537 million.
Last quarter was seemingly impacted by the SNC exam borrowing base resets.
I'm trying to get my head around what the catalyst was this quarter that we saw a bigger increase in criticized this quarter versus last quarter.
Pete.
Yes Steve as I stated before we just decided to take the approach that given that energy prices have been down for an extended period of time that we had a number of credits that were kind of in that low pass category we just moved them to criticized thinking that we’re not going to see a turnaround in energy prices and if any of our credits are seeing any kind of operational weakness we decided that we really could justify calling them past credits.
But again I don’t feel any worse about those credits.
I don’t think we have a big risk of loss.
Most of those credits have very strong balance sheets and most of those credits that we moved this quarter still are very very well secured.
So we actually don’t feel any differently about the energy book today than we felt one or two quarters ago.
Okay so you essentially changed your forecast for oil prices essentially? No it’s not based on really a forecast Steve as much as it is that if you’re seeing some operational weakness and you really don’t expect that operational -- there’s an impetus for that operational weakness to turnaround in the short-term which now we really don’t.
We just decided that we should move them to special mention.
Okay.
And in terms of not needing to put incremental reserves or at least any size magnitude were you already reserving at the new rating level? I’m just trying to reconcile the lack of provision in the quarter.
Yes so we’ve always had a qualitative reserve and that we have tried to stay ahead of this the whole way and so you’re right that qualitative reserve was available for some of the risk rating changes that we made.
Okay.
And we did increase our reserves for energy in the quarter Steve.
Yes right.
Okay.
And just a final one; so from a big picture view we’re roughly a third of the energy book now criticized seemingly above the prior peak.
What gives you confidence that losses are going to remain manageable? And by manageable do you mean through earnings? What exactly do you mean by that? Well bear in mind that the bulk of the migration has been in E&amp;P.
And the vast majority of those E&amp;P credits remain extremely well secured even the ones that are highly levered most of the debt is below us and so our position in those credits remain solid even though the risk of default might be higher.
The concern would probably would be more around our energy services book but our energy services book is only 15% of the portfolio it's not 50% of the portfolio and that's by design its part of our strategy as to limit the size of our energy services book.
And another thing we feel really good about our strategy around energy services in addition to limiting the size of it we have really focused on companies with strong balance sheets strong liquidity and then another important consideration there is just diversification.
We like to see companies that are not overly dependent on drilling activity.
And I think because of the strategy that we have and the size of the energy services portfolio we feel that our losses in the energy book are going to be manageable for that reason.
Pete you must just reemphasize that we lend at a percentage of proven reserves … Correct.
… wealth is another.
Yes and we’ve a very conservative approach as to most banks in the space on what we're lending against in terms of reserves.
We are discounting them heavily we're risking them we’re really focused on only the proved reserves and then we’re taking a pretty big haircut before we apply the advance rate.
For that reason a lot of these credits have been resolved before they go to non-accrual because many of the credits that need liquidity can actually sell their assets and generate liquidity because our advance rate against them is much lower than what they can realize in the sale.
And that's why you are seeing a lot of these credits that are special mentioned and substandard not migrating to non-accrual charge-off.
Maybe just one final one is your view that losses remain manageable tied to an expectation that oil prices recover from here? I remember Lars maybe 18 months ago or so saying if oil was below $60 it was problematic and now we are $47 do you need to see a recovery for at $47 18 months from now are losses manageable in that scenario? I think it still be manageable even at today's prices.
What's happened over the last several quarters its been great to see -- we see our customers reducing their cost structure they’re right sizing their balance sheet they have hedging that has allowed them to bridge themselves to a point where they can become profitable at lower energy prices and I don't know what the magic number is but I feel like the majority of our borrowers will be able to adjust to prices where they are today.
Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Gary Tenner with D.A.
Davidson.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Gary.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
I just had one follow-up energy question.
I wonder as we start looking at 2016 if you could give us a sense of kind of how your E&amp;P customers are hedged what percentage of their projected production is hedged and what kind of price levels? You know Gary we update our hedging statistics based on the re-determination process and so we are only up about 15% 20% through that process so the number I am about to give is not terribly different than the number I gave you last quarter.
But right now 59% of our borrowers have 50% or more of their PVP hedge for a year or more.
And about 35% of our borrowers have 50% or more of their PVP hedged for two years or more which is very similar to where we were.
Last quarter is very similar to where we were two quarters ago.
Okay but only very early in the re-determination process? Correct.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliot with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You said a few times you kind of see energy as manageable.
Could you give a bit more thinking on what you mean by manageable? Well I think manageable means that we are not going to see anything out the ordinary that we feel like our reserves are more than adequate to cover anything that comes up I guess.
And Pat you may want to add to this which is based on we’ve a team that has 30 years of experience.
We’ve seen the ups and downs and we’ve talked about various ways that these credits are managed which is the portfolio in the particular segment.
Pat you want to add to that? Well just to reinforce the fact that we’ve been in the business for over 30 -- approximately 30 years.
We have the same manager for that 30-year period.
We have our engineers have been working with us for a long long period of time.
Energy is a very important business to Comerica; it's an important business to Texas and an important business to United States.
So and our credit policies have been adjusted over time to help manage through cycles and that's exactly what we are experiencing today.
And then just to follow-up you’ve talked about rates as being an important factor in determining earnings and so on into be thinking about the buyback.
I mean would you kind of rank credit equally with rates higher than rates lower rates in terms of swing factors for earnings and ability to complete the full buyback that was approved under CCAR? Karen you want to take that? Sure.
Obviously credit is an important piece of what we do.
In terms of an outlook for next year we're not giving that yet.
We will give it as we typically do on our fourth quarter earnings fall.
We're still on our planning process but for provision at least for the next quarter we expect it to be similar to what we had in the third quarter.
So we are feeling comfortable on the impact that it could have on earnings through the rest of this year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we have no further questions in queue at this time.
I’d like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Ralph Babb Chairman and CEO.
Thank you and thank you all for being with us this morning and your interest in Comerica.
We appreciate it and hope you all have a great day.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I’d like to welcome everyone to the Comerica Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I’d now like to turn the call over to Darlene Persons Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brent.
Good morning.
And welcome to Comerica’s fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Participating on this call will be our Chairman Ralph Babb; President Curt Farmer; Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Karen Parkhill; Chief Credit Officer Pete Guilfoile; and Executive Vice President of the Business Bank Pat Faubion.
A copy of our press release and presentation slides are available on the SEC’s Web site as well as in the Investor Relations section of our Web site comerica.com.
As we review our fourth quarter results we will be referring to the slides which provide additional details on our earnings.
Before we get started I’d like to remind you that this conference call contains forward-looking statements.
And in that regard you should be mindful of the risks and uncertainties that can cause actual results to vary materially from expectations.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I refer you to the Safe Harbor statement contained in the release issued today as well as Slide 2 of this presentation which I incorporate into this call as well as our filings with the SEC for factors that could cause actual results to differ.
Also this conference call will reference non-GAAP measures and in that regard I’d direct you to the reconciliation of these measures within this presentation.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Ralph who will begin on Slide 3.
Good morning.
Today we reported fourth quarter 2015 net income of $130 million or $0.71 per share and full-year 2015 net income of $535 million or $2.92 per share.
We remain focused on the long-term and executing on our relationship banking strategy as we navigate our way through a modestly growing U.S economy and increasing regulatory and technology demands.
Turning to Slide 4 and highlights from fiscal year 2015 we had good broad based loan and deposit growth in 2015 average loans increased $2 billion or 4% to $48.6 billion most notable were increases in technology and life sciences mortgage banker finance national dealer services and commercial real estate.
Our average total deposits grew $3.5 billion or 6% to a record $58.3 billion.
This included a $3.1 billion or 12% increase in non-interest bearing deposits as well as a $474 million increase in interest bearing deposits.
We saw growth in all business lines and all three of our major markets as our customers have a lot of liquidity and choose to hold it at Comerica.
We generated close to $1.7 billion of net interest income in 2015 an increase of $34 million or 2% primarily the result of our solid loan growth.
Overall credit quality continued to be strong with net charge-offs of $75 million or 15 basis points of average loans for the full-year which remains well below normal historical levels.
The allowance for loan losses increased $40 million compared to 2014 primarily due to increases in reserves related to energy and technology and life sciences partially offset by improvements in credit quality and the remainder of the portfolio.
This resulted in the provision for credit losses increasing from the 2014 cyclical low of $27 million to $122 million for 2015.
Year-over-year non-interest income was stable excluding the change to the accounting presentation for a card program.
We had increases in card fees deposit service charges and fiduciary income.
This was offset by lower investment banking income primarily due to less activity in the energy market as well as decreases in certain categories impacted by regulatory changes such as letters of credit.
Excluding the impact of a change to the accounting presentation for a card program non-interest expenses increase $38 million primarily due to increases in technology regulatory and pension expenses as well as outside processing fees tied to revenue generating activities.
This was partially offset by the release of litigation reserves and cost savings realized in 2015 from certain actions taken in the second half of 2014.
We repurchased 5.1 million shares and 500 000 warrants in 2015 under our equity repurchase program.
Through the buyback and dividends we returned $389 million or 73% of 2015 net income to shareholders.
This reflects our strong capital position and solid financial performance.
Our tangible book value per share increased 4% over the past year to $39.41 as we continue to focus on creating long-term shareholder value.
Turning to Slide 5 and an overview of the fourth quarter average loans were relatively stable at $48.5 billion compared to the third quarter.
And average deposits increased $596 million driven by a $1 billion increase in non-interest bearing deposits.
Revenue increased more than 2% compared to the third quarter.
This was a result of growth in net interest income which benefited from higher non-accrual interest recoveries and the rise in rates late in the quarter as well as an increase in fee generation particularly commercial lending and card fees.
Technology and regulatory costs drove non-interest expenses higher as anticipated.
Negative credit migration in our energy exposure continued as expected while overall our customers have been acting prudently as evidenced by declining loan balances.
The remainder of the loan book continues to perform well.
Finally we benefited from lower taxes as a result of the early termination of certain leverage lease transactions.
Turning to Slide 6 most U.S economic data at year-end showed ongoing momentum which we expect to continue through 2016.
Looking at economic conditions within our primary footprint of Texas California and Michigan we continue to see the advantages of our geographic diversity.
While Texas is facing headwinds from the energy cycle California and Michigan provide an important counterbalance.
Average loans in California were up 8% compared to 2014 while deposits were up 10%.
California continues to be a leader in bringing new technology to market.
Housing market should remain strong.
Low regional unemployment rates will contribute to wage growth supporting the states large consumer sector.
We expect the California economy to grow at a moderate pace in 2016.
Average loans in Michigan were relatively stable compared to 2014 while deposits were up 4%.
Michigan’s economy has benefited from the recovery of the U.S auto industry.
We expect ongoing job growth to keep labor markets tight and wages improving.
Average growth slowed in Texas with loans up 2% and deposits relatively stable compared to 2014.
The overall Texas economy should feel the weight of reduced oil and natural gas drilling activity through 2016.
However the states economic diversity and business friendly environment aided by a healthy U.S economy should support economic growth through 2016 albeit at a slower pace.
As we look forward to the year ahead we remain keenly focused on growing loans and deposits along with managing expenses as we make necessary investments.
With the Federal Reserve increasing its benchmark rate 25 basis points in December our revenue picture looks better as our balance sheet remains well positioned to benefit from potential rising rates.
With oil prices at a cyclical low we’ve been closely monitoring our energy customers and have increased our reserves in each quarter of 2015.
Well into the cycle we continue to feel comfortable with our energy portfolio and believe charge-offs will remain manageable.
In summary we’re committed to providing high quality financial services and building lasting customer relationships which combine with our diverse geographic footprint will continue to assist us in building long-term shareholder value.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Karen.
Thank you Ralph.
Good morning everyone.
Turning to Slide 7 fourth quarter average loans were relatively stable at $48.5 billion compared to the third quarter.
We had strong loan growth in our commercial real estate business as well as our national dealer business which typically rebounds in the fourth quarter.
This was more than offset by a seasonal decline in mortgage banker loans along with declines in general middle market and corporate banking as we remain disciplined in this highly competitive environment.
In addition energy continued to decline as expected.
Positive growth trends through November and December resulted in period end loans above the average for the quarter.
As you can see the quarter ended with loans at $49.1 billion.
Total loan commitments were relatively stable and utilization was unchanged at 50%.
Importantly our pipeline remains strong.
Our fourth quarter loan yield increased 7 basis points as shown in the diamonds.
We had higher interest collected on non-accrual loans and benefited from a 25 basis point increase in short-term interest rate late in the quarter as the Fed raised its benchmark rate on December 16.
Turning to deposits on Slide 8 average deposits increased $596 million in the fourth quarter from a $1 billion increase in non-interest bearing deposits.
The primary driver as a large increase in corporate banking which was partly offset by declines in technology and life sciences along with general middle market as we adjust pricing on municipal deposits to reflect the impact of the liquidity coverage ratio.
Period end deposits also increased $1.1 billion to $59.9 billion.
We continue to prudently manage deposit pricing and have not instituted any standard pricing adjustments in response to the increase in short-term rates.
We are closely monitoring our deposit base as well as the market and we believe we’re well positioned with predominantly operational relationship oriented deposits.
As we discussed at a recent investor conference during the fourth quarter we deployed a portion of our excess reserves into securities as shown on Slide 9.
Given our continued deposit growth and the likelihood of rate increases occurring in small increments over a longer period of time in the fourth quarter we added almost $2 billion primarily in treasury security.
This strategy generates an additional income while maintaining our asset sensitive position.
At this time we expect to potentially and modestly add to our securities portfolio based on the movement of our balance sheet and interest rate along with market opportunities.
By carefully managing the overall portfolio we’ve maintained an estimated duration of under four years.
As you can see in the diamonds on the slide our portfolio yield was stable resulting from a small decrease in the MBS premium amortization offsetting the mix impact from adding lower yield in treasury securities.
Going forward assuming no change in the rate environment we expect continued minor pressure on the average securities yield primarily due to the mix shift.
As of quarter end our estimated LCR ratio continues to meet the phased-in 2017 requirements plus a buffer.
Turning to Slide 10 net interest income grew $11 million or 3% in the fourth quarter.
The biggest driver came from the loan portfolio which contributed $5 million.
Higher interests received on non-accrual loans and an interest in loan yields due to the rise in rates was only partially offset by the decline in lower loans and lower accretion.
Our largest security portfolio lower funding costs and higher interest earned on short-term investments including higher Federal Reserve deposit balances each added $2 million.
The decline in our wholesale funding cost was driven by debt maturity late in the third quarter along with lower interest paid due to the decline in interest bearing deposits.
Our net interest margin increased 4 basis points with higher loan yields offset by higher balances at the Fed.
Turning to Slide 11 our overall credit picture remains solid.
Net charge-offs were 21 basis points or $26 million derived mainly from loans related to energy and to a lesser extend technology and life sciences with strong recoveries in a number of our business lines.
Our criticized loans grew $295 million to $3.2 billion which is less than 7% of total loans and continues to be below our average historical levels.
The increase was driven by a $372 million increase in criticized loans related to energy.
Total non-accrual loans were relatively stable at $367 million or 75 basis points of total loans.
With energy comprising a $161 million up from a $126 million in the third quarter.
The fall re-determination process is essentially complete for our E&amp;P customers which comprise 69% of our energy business line.
Borrowing bases have come down about 10% on average as a result of lower energy prices.
About 45% of our customers have improved or stable loan to value ratio and there have been few new collateral deficiency since the prior re-determination.
Overall our borrowers continue to act prudently in this environment.
They’re aggressively reducing costs cutting back on capital expenditures reworking their hedging contracts to provide more runway and preserving liquidity.
In addition they’re paying down bank debt through the sale of assets.
As a result our loans and our energy line of business declined by $173 million this quarter and are down approximately $700 million from the peak at the end of February.
And utilization remained essentially unchanged at 49% as of the end of the third quarter.
Importantly we have virtually no second lien exposure and our energy services portfolio is a relatively small amount of our total loans.
However given persistently low oil and gas prices we continue to see negative migration in the energy book which has resulted in an increase in criticized loans non-accrual loans and charge-offs.
As of quarter end 38% of the loans related to energy were considered criticized including 4% on non-accrual.
We have $27 million in charge-offs and our energy business line and $6 million in energy related loans.
The $35 million provision for our total portfolio reflected charge-offs as well as an increase in our energy reserves in conjunction with the negative migration and preserving a healthy qualitative reserve.
As of quarter end our reserve allocation for energy loans increased and is now greater than 4% of our total energy and energy related loan.
Overall our allowance for credit losses increased $9 million to total $679 million and our allowance to loan ratio increased to 1.29%.
Slide 12 outlines non-interest income which increased $6 million or 2%.
The biggest driver was an $8 million increase in commercial lending fees due to robust year-end closing activity particularly in our syndication area.
We also had increases in card fees due to higher revenue from merchant processing along with letter of credit and foreign exchange income as we continue to focus on cross-sell opportunity.
We did see declines in service charges on deposits due to five fewer business days in the quarter as well as fiduciary and brokerage income which were impacted by poor market environment.
In addition we had several items that are difficult to predict.
Specifically a $6 million increase in deferred compensation which has offset a non-interest expense a $4 million decrease in customer related warrant income and a $3 million benefit in the third quarter from hedges on our debt that wasn’t repeated in the fourth quarter.
As a reminder the year-over-year view of both non-interest income and non-interest expense is not directly comparable.
Each quarter this year reflects an accounting presentation that report to both revenues and expenses rather than net revenue for our card program.
Turning to Slide 13 non-interest expenses increased $28 million.
Included in the increase were $6 million in benefits in the third quarter that were not repeated.
From legal reserve releases and forfeiture of executive stock awards.
In addition deferred compensation expense increased $6 million and is offset in revenue as mentioned.
Staff insurance and consulting expenses were seasonally higher and salaries expenses increased with higher technology and regulatory related staffing including contract labor.
Also of note outside processing fees declined with vendor credit an unusually large collection of customer reimbursement.
Moving to Slide 14 and capital management.
As the chart indicates we continue to return excess capital to our shareholders in a meaningful way with a payout of 79% of fourth quarter earnings.
In the fourth quarter we repurchased 1.5 million shares for $65 million under the equity repurchase program reflecting a moderate increase from the $59 million repurchased in each of the past six quarters.
Turning to Slide 15 as typical we provide our outlook for the full-year based on a continuation of the current economic and interest rate environment.
Overall we expect our average loan growth to be inline with GDP growth.
We expect loan growth in most businesses led by commercial real estate auto dealer and technology and life sciences.
If oil and gas prices remain at low levels we believe energy loan should continue to decline.
Also keep in mind competition remains stiff particularly in corporate banking and we fully intend to maintain our loan pricing and credit discipline.
We expect our net interest income to increase.
Assuming current rates do not change our model indicates that the full-year benefit of the recent increase in short-term rates should increase our net interest income by more than $60 million.
And while not included in this outlook we’re well positioned to benefit from any further rate increases which I will discuss on the next slide.
We also expect the growth in loans and securities net of funding costs to have a positive effect.
We expect continued solid credit quality with net charge-offs remaining below historical norms.
As far as provision we expect an increase in reserves in conjunction with loan growth and potential further deterioration in overall credit quality including an increase in net charge-offs from cyclically low level.
If energy prices remain at these very low levels we would expect to see further reserve build and ultimately higher charge-offs.
But remember our energy business strategy is underwritten to withstand typical volatility in the sector.
So we continue to expect the credit impacts from energy to be manageable.
Overall we expect non-interest income to grow modestly primarily due to growth in merchant processing services government card and commercial card fees as we continue to focus on cross-sell opportunities.
And assuming that the market conditions improve we expect an increase in wealth management related income such as brokerage service fees and fiduciary income where we continue to see a strong pipeline from our trust alliance program.
Non-customer category such as warrant income hedge and effectiveness and deferred comp are difficult to predict but are expected to have a small negative impact.
As far as non-interest expenses we’ve been and will continue to manage through to near-term expense headwinds.
2015 benefited from a $33 million legal reserve reversal that will be essentially offset by an equal decline in our pension expense primarily due to a rise in long-term rates.
As we’ve indicated we expect technology projects and regulatory expenses will continue to rise and together increased by about $25 million to $30 million in 2016 as we continue to invest to meet increasing industry compliance and regulatory demand as well as enhancements in our cyber security.
Outside processing expense is expected to increase inline with growing revenue particularly card fees.
Also a recent regulatory proposal for an FDIC surcharge may drive that expense up.
And a forfeiture of restricted stock and leverage lease terminations that benefited 2015 are not expected to be repeated.
Finally we expect to see typical inflationary pressures on several line items including annual merit staff insurance and occupancy.
Rest assured that as we continue to navigate through this low rate environment and even as rates rise we’re focused on maintaining our expense discipline carefully managing our workforce and driving efficiency for the long-term through continued review of processes judiciously negotiating contracts and leveraging technology when possible.
We expect these efforts will be apparent in several line items such as consulting telecom travel and entertainment and legal fees.
Lastly well not on the slide I’d point out that we estimate our tax rate will be approximately 32% of pre-tax income.
Turning to Slide 16 as I mentioned our outlook assumes the current rate environment and no rise in rates.
For illustrative purposes we run a simulation using the implied forward curve for 30 day LIBOR the rate to which we are most sensitive.
On the left side of the slide we show the forward curve that assumes 30 day LIBOR reaches about 100 basis points at year-end or 90 basis points on average in the fourth quarter.
In this case which incorporates a dynamic balance sheet assuming historical relationships our net interest income could increase a further $55 million to $60 million for the full-year.
The right side of the slide provides our standard asset liability case and shows that a 200 basis point increase in rates over a one-year period equivalent to a 100 basis points on average would result in a benefit to net interest income of about $210 million.
There are also several alternative assumptions to our standard case including the pace of deposit loan and rate changes and in all cases we remain well positioned for rising rates.
In closing we are pleased with the increase in our revenue and continued deposit growth.
And our overall credit quality has remained strong as we’ve been navigating the energy cycle.
While remains a challenging environment for us and the industry given the persistently low rate and energy price environment combined with increased regulatory requirements and technology demand we will continue to be keenly focused on the long-term and the things we can control.
And with the first rate increase behind us our revenue picture looks better.
Now operator we would like to open-up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O’Neil.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Scott.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
I think first question I was hoping you could address the energy reserve in a little more detail.
So the 4% reserve could certainly prove sufficient but just given that others are now disclosing higher reserves than I think the credit markets are suggesting even higher loss potential just would be curious to hear your expanded thoughts and then I think the second part of that question is just that there is of course now an enormous mismatch between what it might cost to -- cost you guys to beef up the reserve even more materially versus the market cap that that’s been lost on concerns about the reserve.
So if you can just sort of address both of those that would be great please.
Okay.
Pete you want to start? Sure.
So every energy portfolio is unique and I think it would be inaccurate to say that every bank has allocated the same amount of reserves to the energy portfolio.
So for instance Scott when you take a look at our portfolio as Karen mentioned we don’t have any second lien debt in our portfolio.
For the most part it’s well secured E&amp;P credits.
We don’t have much in the way of energy services and the portfolio continues to contract and is throwing out a fair amount of reserves.
The other thing I would mention that’s important is that when we’re calculating that allocation including the denominator is all of our energy related exposure which includes investment grade credit it includes middle market credits that may or may not be impacted all by energy prices.
And then I guess the last thing that we look at is we have $680 million of reserves in total and because we don’t have other issues going on in the portfolio we look at that entire reserve is available to address any issues that come up in energy.
And I’d add Scott that remember our reserve at year-end of over 4% does continue to include a healthy qualitative reserve.
And we recognize that prices have dropped a decent amount since year-end.
It is really difficult to say with any degree of certainty what that impact could be because prices are only one component on our reserve.
There are lots of other components that impact our customers’ performance.
They would include continued reduction in cash costs and ability to sell assets extension of hedges and access to the capital markets.
But know that because prices have dropped precipitously particularly since year-end we have done an analysis with oil prices remaining at $30 for the entire year.
And based on that analysis and conservatively assuming a static portfolio we’d estimate that the impact to our energy reserves could be $75 million to a $125 million which we still believe remains manageable.
And I’d also want you to keep in mind that ultimate losses could be much less than that amount.
Our energy business line is very granular and we do expect energy loans to continue to decline which does free up reserves.
Plus our allowance is also impacted by the performance of the remainder of the portfolio which does continue to improve.
Okay.
That’s all perfect color.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Zerbe with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I want to make sure I heard the number right did you say that from the December rate hike you expect $60 million of increase in NII in 2016? That is correct.
We said we expect more than $60 million next year.
Okay perfect.
And keep in mind that that’s based on the fact that 85% of our loans are floating rate.
And we’re assuming deposit assumptions fairly similar to history because we’ve seen minimal deposit impact both on the amount and on pricing with the initial part of the rate rise there could be upside to that number.
Got you.
And then the question I have on that was if you look at Slide 16 you went through on the LIBOR if LIBOR goes up I think it was 90 basis points by the end of the year and I’m going to annualize your fourth quarter ’16 number I think that’s $25 million higher in NII.
Just help me understand so $60 million from 25 basis points but then a 100 million annualized from 90 basis points in LIBOR.
Is that just because you expect deposit [indiscernible] up or what’s the offset there that would make that disproportionately smaller increase in NII? Yes so keep in mind that the model is dynamic and some of the key drivers are the deposit assumption.
So according to our standard model we do assume that as rates rise we would see a moderate decrease in our deposit balance or could see a moderate decrease and that deposit pricing goes in line with history.
Because of small increments on this rate rise perhaps the deposit impact may be less than what we’ve assumed.
So it is a dynamic model.
Got you.
Okay and then just one more question for you.
Just in terms of Page 11 when you talk about the energy loans just want to make sure I think about the energy exposure correctly because you break it out separately.
You’ve the $3.1 billion of energy loans but then a $625 million of other business or other loans that are related to energy that I think you say could be disproportionately negatively impacted.
What do you think is structurally different with that $600 million of other energy related loans? I mean from our perspective should we just be lumping the $3.1 billion and the $600 million together in terms of your total exposure? Pete? Yes that $650 million is actually performing better than the line of business.
It consists of a lot of credits that are really not impacted by energy prices.
We include in that number any one of our borrowers that drives 50% more of the revenue from the energy sector some of which is really not impacted by energy prices so included in that $650 million are investment grade refineries and really just other middle market companies that are fairly not that impacted by low energy prices.
So it’s actually performing better than the energy book.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Elliot with Autonomous Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning.
The Shared National Credit Report talked about banks showing flexibility in working with auditors by relaxing leverage covenants and allowing time to curtail borrowing base over advances.
Could you talk about how that process works in practice at Comerica? The SNC process [ph].
Yes it was just out of the SNC report from November and I wondered if you could talk about how that process works at Comerica? As far as the Shared National Credit exam? As well as -- no more in terms of showing flexibility when you are working with oil and gas borrowers who are coming up against covenants and where the borrowing base needs to come down.
Yes.
So we work very closely with the rest of the bank group when in going through the re-determination process.
We are all reviewing the same information of we’ve our own separate engineers that review the engineering reports but there is the sharing of information that takes place on that analysis.
We each do our own risk ratings and so we all determine independently what we think the appropriate rating should be.
But I can tell you that we talk a lot and so I think we’ve a good feel for where the other banks are with regard to their view of those credits and they’ve a good view of where we’re -- what our view is.
Does that answer your question? I guess partially.
And then the follow-up would be if you are kind of thinking about how you are sharing flexibility with borrowers this time versus in prior cycles say in 2008 2009 do you think there are any differences in how you and the other banks are behaving? No I think we’re working together with our borrowers to give them flexibility of course.
But at the same time we’re -- I think we’re acting prudently to make sure that we’re protecting on credit losses.
I think what’s been really remarkable throughout this downturn is just how well the borrowers are working with the banks as well.
And if you take a look at it Geoffrey last spring when prices were dropping the access to capital markets proactively to make sure they were not in violation of borrowing bases.
In the fall when the capital markets were largely close they sold assets to reduce their loans outstanding to make sure they’re in compliance with the borrowing bases.
So it’s a two way street.
I think the borrowers are working well with the banks to make sure they’re staying in compliance and the banks are working with the borrowers to make sure that there -- they’ve the liquidity they need to operate their businesses.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi good morning.
My first question is just a clarity on the expense guidance for 2016.
Karen could you take us through what the puts and takes are relative to the $489 million fourth quarter expense base as we think about the quarter ahead? And also Wells Fargo gave us a pretty significant dollar number for the estimated quarterly FDIC expense base and I was wondering if you could similarly share your projection with us? Sure.
So on expenses we talked about the fact that 2015 did benefit from the legal reserve release and we will have lower pension expense that is pretty much equal to that legal reserve release.
We talked about the fact that we got increases in technology and regulatory expense about $25 million to $30 million and outside processing aligned with growing revenue along with typical inflationary pressures and the potential for the FDIC increase.
Relative to the fourth quarter I’d say the fourth quarter is a decent guide but keep in mind there is lots of moving pieces particularly on a quarterly basis.
Number of days impact the quarter the first half typically has higher stock and incentive comps and higher seasonal payroll taxes.
The second half is impacted by merit raises and increasing staff insurance costs plus the fourth quarter had items that are not expected to repeat like deferred comps and we continue to manage expenses everywhere that we can.
On the FDIC expense in particular as you know that FDIC did put a proposal out there to increase their deposit insurance bond per Dodd-Frank mandated standard by increasing the rates to the larger banks.
While that proposal has -- the comment period has just ended on that so it’s uncertain what the timing or ultimate impact could be.
A good rule of thumb would be approximately maybe $10 million to us in the year.
Got it.
And as I just put your guidance together there is clearly a little bit more hesitation by the market to think about rising rates given what’s been happening to the economy outside of the United States.
And as I think about your guidance for higher revenues and higher expenses for this year I’m wondering if you’re committed to generating positive operating leverage even if -- even outside of the potential impact of any further increases to the short end of the curve? So we’re always very focused on generating positive operating leverage.
We’ve been very focused on managing our expenses as prudently as we can while we need to invest in increased regulation in technology.
That said our ultimate performance particularly in 2016 will be dependent in part on where rates go.
Keep in mind that we have a good benefit from the rate rise that has already occurred and will ultimately depend on the energy sector.
But regardless we remain very focused on positive operating leverage particularly over the long-term.
Got it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Alexopoulos with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning everybody.
I wanted to start looking at the $1.2 billion of criticized energy loans; could you give us the breakdown of that into E&amp;P midstream and services? Pete? Sure.
Steven its 45% E&amp;P about 9% midstream and 48% services.
And then there is 30% that’s in the related category.
Related okay perfect.
That’s very helpful.
I wanted to talk about hedging for a second.
Could you just looking at your customers talk about what level of production was hedged in 2015 and how that’s going to change in 2016? Right now we’ve 59% of our borrowers that have 50% or more of the revenue hedged out one year and then drops off to 30% after that.
And so those percentages really haven’t changed a lot over the last several quarters.
Now the value of those hedges has dropped as borrowers rework their hedges to get extend the runway but the -- I think the good thing here is that borrowers are actively working to extend the runway and as they extend the runway they’re making good progress on reducing their cost structure.
Okay.
So you are saying 50% in 2015 and then that falls to 30% in 2016 -- that’s what you are saying? I’m sorry say that again please.
Did you say 50% was hedged in 2015 and that’s falling down to 30% in 2016? Yes.
So 30% -- no 30% two years out beyond 2016.
Yes beyond 2016 30% have 50% or more of their revenue hedged.
So that -- those percentages I just gave you are the -- are only customers that have 50% or more of their revenues hedged.
We are not counting in those percentages companies that have less than 50% of their revenue hedged and a lot of them do.
Okay.
Just one other question.
Looking at the technology life sciences business it looks like balances were down sequentially both loans and deposits.
Can you talk about the impact that sector is having on that business? Thanks.
Pat? Steve this is Pat.
We’ve seen a bit of a softness in the BC market that’s because firms are exercising more cautious following several years of really strong investment and high valuations.
There had been some challenging verticals like cyber security ad-tech but -- so we’re watching that carefully that we do expect a good year in 2016 in our technology vertical [ph].
Okay.
Thanks for all the color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Good morning John.
Good morning.
Back to energy; want to get a little bit more detail on the reserve adequacy.
Can you give us the breakout of the reserve as it pertains to E&amp;P versus oil service? Pete? Yes we don’t typically give that kind of detail.
We have talked about we got greater than 4% of reserves against those energy and energy related.
And that we believe that reserves from here could be manageable.
Maybe I could give a little bit of color depending on John what you would like to understand better but obviously while we’re doing the re-determinations this fall energy prices were dropping.
And so the price decks that we were using on a regular basis to do that re-determinations ultimately ended up being higher than were prices ended up at the end of the year.
And so we made up that difference with a qualitative reserve at the end of the quarter to adjust for the fact that prices had dropped from the time we’re doing the re-determinations to the end of the quarter.
Okay.
All right.
And do you break out the qualitative versus the specific? No.
No we don’t give the specifics on that but again we do maintain qualitative reserve.
Okay.
And then another thing I know you mentioned this in your comments or you referred to it but do you’ve what percentage of your energy book is investment grade versus non-investment grade borrowers? That we would say most of the investment grade borrowers would be in the energy related and many of those borrowers don’t borrow a lot of money.
And so in terms of the actual dollars outstanding I don’t have a figure for you but its not a huge amount.
Okay all right.
And then lastly thanks for the sensitivity on oil remaining at $30.
However since we did see oil break into the 20s for a little while there what if oil drops and remains in the 20s? Can you give us that sensitivity because that’s where you get a big change for a lot of these producers where they really have a problem with the production costs etcetera? Thanks.
Yes our reserves and our pricing analysis take into account the forward curve which typically upward sloping.
So the number that we gave you on the $30 for 12 months have a flat curve not upward sloping.
So keep that in mind.
These are rough numbers so I’m not going to give you one that’s in the 20s but you can assume slightly worse than the one we gave you if it’s in the 20.
So keep in mind this is a very dynamic equation and very typically the price environment forward curve is going to be upward sloping.
Okay all right.
If I can ask one housekeeping non-energy.
On the loan balances at the end of period came in a good amount above the average which is a better one to work off of? We focus on average more than we focus on end of period mainly because that’s what drive our financial statement.
We do see end of period activity in both loans and deposits and that’s one of the reasons why we don’t focus on it.
But I do think it’s a good thing that our end of period balances are above our average for the quarter that bodes well for the start of this quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Terry McEvoy with Stephens.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Terry.
Good morning.
Just to take a step back and a question for Ralph.
In the past when there has been some weakness in Comerica’s business the Company has moved resources and capital to some other markets or other lines of business.
So you were in Michigan you moved to Texas when commercial loans were a little soft you talked more about wealth management etcetera.
So my question is strategically if Texas continues to contract how do you fill in that hole in terms of where or potentially some additional products? I think you described it well.
We are always looking at where our resources are and we move those resources and where we invest based on what’s going on partly because of the economy and the short-term but also on the longer term.
And when Karen was talking about expense management earlier a lot of that’s built into that and we’re looking all the time where we need to be where we need to add people at the same time where we don’t need additional people as an example.
And we got a very tenured good team and that’s very important and that’s the reason they’re movable as well.
Pete you’ve moved around a couple of times as an example.
Yes all three markets yes.
Yes.
Curt would you like to add something to that? Just maybe to reinforce what you’re saying there Ralph the California market is continuing to do well overall.
Real estate value is firming in both the north and the south a diverse economy.
Technology is still doing well despite a little bit of softness and so some of our resource reallocation is to California right now.
As we continue to round out the large urban markets there but we also beyond just line of business continue to focus on the fee income businesses within the corporation so we’ve been a net investor in wealth management adding additional advisors especially in the trust and brokerage area.
We’ve been adding resources in some of the card areas merchant added a new vendor there.
So we’re looking at it all of the time.
It is a constant process of reviewing our lines of business.
The ROEs that are being generated by the respective businesses and where we think we’ve the greatest growth opportunity but also where that matches up with where our greatest customer needs are as well.
Thanks.
And then just as a follow-up you did release reserves in the non-energy portfolio and based on your outlook today for ’16 do you foresee additional reserve releasing outside of energy really to help offset that potential $75 million to $125 million incremental reserves in energy that Karen identified earlier on the call? Yes we continue to see really great results outside of energy and as you mentioned about one-third of the migration in energy was offset by improvements elsewhere in the portfolio.
The far that you go in the cycle the harder and harder it is to get those [indiscernible] dividends but the rest of the portfolios is really strong and I do expect to continue to see some improvement there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Eads with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning David.
Hi.
Good morning.
Maybe just one kind of question on NII and NIM.
Just in thinking about the outlook and a starting point for heading into next year is the right way to think about it that you kind of back out some of the benefit from the non-accrual interest in 4Q and then you would add in the benefit from the first rate hike which very little of that was seen in 4Q and then you would have the day count impact in 1Q? Is that kind of the right puts and takes to think about starting off next year? Those are the right high level for puts and takes yes.
Okay.
And then for the share buybacks should we think about the 4Q level as kind of the right run rate for the first two quarters of the year or could there be a little bit of increase related to the income from rate? And then I guess do you have any flexibility on when you could do the buybacks in the last two quarters of this cycle? Yes so on share repurchase we have said that we will be monitoring that on a quarterly basis.
And that it will follow our financial performance and our balance sheet movement including our capital levels.
So it is something that we will be looking at and monitoring every quarter.
As you know we’ve $393 million not objected to in the last capital plan.
We obviously did increase our share repurchases this quarter and we will be looking at each quarter in isolation but against our performance.
Okay.
And then just finally there was this fall SNC review for the largest banks.
Were the results for that included in 4Q results and -- was there anything interesting coming out of that? Yes they were included in the fourth quarter and now there was really no major impact on our portfolio at all.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Ramsey with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Bob.
Hey good morning.
Just a few follow-ups.
One I know you talked about how strong credit has been outside of the energy book of business.
I’m just curious are you seeing any signs of softness or any areas where there might be signs of any sort of concern? Pete Pat? Go ahead.
Bob this is Pat.
We are always on the look out for hot pockets or deterioration.
I can tell you that we have thoroughly reviewed our commercial real estate portfolio particularly with multifamily.
We feel very very good about that.
We reviewed our technology sector.
We feel good about that despite a bit of increased credit costs.
Middle market is really really performing quite well dealer superlative.
I can go down the list.
We have a really really strong credit culture here and we work very well between our credit partners and the line.
And if I could just add one of the reasons why we’re very proactively moved our number of credits from other business units into this energy related portion of the book is that we expect that some of those credits might show some deterioration as energy prices decreased and so we lumped those in with our energy exposure.
And so everything outside of that ex-energy if you will is really not been very impacted.
Okay.
No that’s helpful.
On the share repurchase question I know you guys said you look at it relative to the balance sheet every quarter.
Just curious if trading below tangible book if that in any way affects your appetite to put something in one quarter versus another or if that is one of the bigger determinants of when you decide to buy? Clearly we like buying our stock back at these very low prices.
And that said our capital plan is done on a quarterly basis and any changes to timing or amounts would require regulatory approval.
Okay got it.
Last question back to margin just want to be sure I understood correctly the numbers you guys break out on Slide 16 of the slide deck that is on top of the $60 million benefit that you already expect to achieve from the one rate increase that’s already taken place correct? That’s correct.
Okay.
And is it fair to take that $60 million and sort of just run rate it at $15 million a quarter and we should see a $15 million lift here in the first quarter? Yes you could think about the $60 million or more than $60 million that we have from the rate rise that is already occurred to be fairly even in each quarter.
Obviously we would expect the biggest impact quarter-over-quarter to be in the first quarter given that we will have a full quarter impact of the rate rise as opposed to just a few week impact.
Sure.
Okay great.
And then I’m just curious how you all are sort of thinking about rates from here.
If you could maybe share your interest rate forecast through the end of the year? It’s very difficult to predict rates and we don’t have a crystal ball just like you don’t.
And that’s the reason that we give our outlook assuming rates don’t rise because its not really something that we can predict.
Right.
Okay great.
And last question around rates for the next 25 basis points if we get another 25 basis points I know you’ve given sort of the LIBOR scenario on that Slide 16 but do you see something similar to that $60 million benefit from the first on the second or does it start to diminish? I get there are moving pieces with deposit assumptions.
Yes there are moving pieces with deposit assumptions and our model that we’ve shown on that Slide 16 does include deposit decline and betas moving inline with history.
So who knows how it will actually go but we do expect less pressure on deposits in the early rate rises particularly this first rate rise and perhaps maybe the second 25 could be.
Okay great.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Rabatin with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Brett.
Good morning Ralph.
Wanted just to circle back to Texas and I think last quarter you kind of talked about recession and some of the markets in Texas not doing as well.
Can you maybe give us an update on kind of how you feel about the markets in Texas? And then just thinking about the loan growth guidance that you’re giving for this year obviously energy is a downdraft would Texas in general also outside of energy be a headwind or can you give us some thoughts on how you see that market? Pat you want to start that? Sure.
Texas has tempered somewhat with respect to the robust growth that we experienced a number of years ago.
We were seeing 10% loan growth year-after-year.
We saw 2% last year and deposits were stable.
But Texas is still experiencing positive population growth business friendly environment low cost housing clinical labor so don’t count Texas out of the equation.
And I would like to say we still have positive loan growth in the fourth quarter from our other businesses had it not been for energy.
Regarding the specific geographies Houston will be the most impacted.
Dallas has a very robust economy as does Fort Worth.
Austin is a technology oriented city and government being the capital city.
They’re not immune but other than Houston we’re seeing really relatively less impact compared to Houston.
Overall looking at a positive GDP for the state even though its going to be significantly lower from where its been was the last numbers I saw from our radar … Yes.
… our economists.
And the direct percentage of energy impact attributed to energy is about 15%.
Obviously the ripple effect is much larger than that.
Okay.
And then just wanted to go back to energy for a second.
I know you guys don’t have that much exposure on second lien type facilities but as we’ve seen change here with the Company’s underlying fundamentals in the credits where you are SNC related has there been efforts to keep those companies from dealing those type of credits or are you guys letting those facilities increase? And maybe give us some thoughts on how you view leverage at your client base on the energy portfolio.
Pete? So when you go through the re-determination process with the E&amp;P companies if there is a violation at the borrowing base the loan agreement typically requires that they get back within that borrowing base within six months.
And so far with very few exceptions that has happened.
And so we’re not seeing the bank being asked to take on any kind of second lien piece or something like that.
Having said that in addition to the half dozen or so companies that have collateral deficiencies right now we probably have another ’10 or so that have what we’d call elevated loan to values.
And so those we might be fairly comfortable with because there is other mitigating factors but I wouldn’t call them second lien pieces at all they are just higher loan to values for a variety of reasons.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Darst with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Good morning David.
Good morning.
Could you comment on the dealer finance business? Looking at the past year what percentage of the growth has been market share versus your dealers holding more inventory? Okay.
Pat? Well we clearly benefited in dealer because of our dealership for growing.
I don’t have a breakdown of new credit relationship.
With auto sales reaching a record in 2015 that clearly fairly buoyed our loan production.
And do you have a perspective from talking to your dealers on what they might hold in inventory the next 12 months and where we’re in the audit cycle? The outlook for the [audit] cycle continues to be very strong.
So we’re expecting a good year in ’16.
The dealer business overall is a consolidating business and hopefully we will be on the positive end of the consolidation as well.
Okay got it.
And then just in your technology investments is the government card program requiring any larger level of investment than it has in the past for cyber security? Curt will you take that? Yes I think it would be the same as we’d see across all of our businesses and our businesses are card related.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Holland with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Mark.
Good morning.
Actually my questions have been covered already so I’m all set.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Winter with Sterne Agee CRT.
Good morning.
Good morning Peter.
I just had a couple questions on the loan growth.
Commercial real estate including residential construction was very strong first time in a while.
And I’m just wondering what’s going on there and if it’s sustainable? And then conversely general middle market continues to be a little bit weak but you’ve got nice growth in the California and Michigan economies.
Pat? Yes.
On commercial real estate we’re finally seeing some good growth in the portfolio as the projects burn through the front-end equity and get into the drop period and we hope to benefit from that in 2016.
What we experienced is a tremendous amount of churn in the portfolio.
Our approvals and fundings have remained at a very high level but previously projects have been paid off just assume as they reach to stabilization point.
So our visibility into the CRE line is pretty good and we do expect good fundings for the year.
Regarding middle market you are correct that California really did lead our growth across all the markets.
We had great growth in middle market in California as well as in deposits.
What we’re seeing across the portfolio is a very competitive environment and we’re holding to our credit standards and our credit pricing.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Laurie Hunsicker with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Yes.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I wanted to follow-up on where Bob Ramsey was going and I just wondered if you could help us think more broadly Karen about potential contagion and maybe if you can just put some numbers around your $3.8 billion of commercial real estate.
How much of that is operating in the oil patch areas and maybe what reserves you see or how you see that going if oil stays at $30? Thanks.
Pat you want to start that? Pete and Karen can … Our commercial real estate portfolio is not in the oil patch except [technical difficulty] consider Houston in the oil patch.
Houston is obviously a large urban market.
We do have a number of multifamily projects in the Houston market.
We’ve taken a very good look at that.
They’re on plan.
They’re with proven developers well located.
We have seen some amount of rent concessions but our projects are really on track.
With respect to the rest of the portfolio it’s in densely populated areas with proven developers with lots of equity in front of us.
And if I could just add a little bit of that more to what Pat said we did a pretty extensive stress test on the Houston commercial real estate portfolio this quarter and we’re quite pleased with the results.
And we stressed it under three different conditions.
The worst the severely adverse case under conditions that we’ve never seen before and even under those conditions we didn’t see any credit losses in the portfolio.
So that commercial real estate portfolio in Houston is really been dealt to withstand the ups and downs to the oil and gas cycle.
And then again as we mentioned before any credits at all that we were concerned about that could be impacted by lower energy prices we are moved into that energy related book.
And so that we count that in our energy exposure even though a large number of those credits have not been impacted we were concerned that they could be.
So I think that’s why we are not -- you’re not seeing a lot of contagion outside of that energy exposure that we report.
Got it.
And I guess to that point so how much of your $3.8 billion in CRE sits in Houston? And then of the $625 million of related loans how much of that is commercial real estate? Yes so our commercial real estate book in total is about $3.8 billion in loans outstanding.
About $300 million of it is in Houston and as Pat mentioned the vast majority of it is multifamily.
In Houston we’ve virtually no office in Houston.
Its primarily an apartment construction book.
Great.
Okay.
And then of your $625 million in related loans was there any from that $300 million Houston bucket? No we -- our definition of energy related is the borrower has to generate 50% or more of its revenue from the energy sector and by definition commercial real estate really doesn’t fall into that category.
That’s why we stress test the commercial real estate both in Houston because it kind of sell outside of that energy related piece and that’s the one piece outside of energy related that we have our eye on and so we wanted to just satisfy ourselves that there weren’t issues there.
Okay great.
And then just one last point of clarity so your call at $1.1 billion of total Texas commercial real estate exposure the rest of that is Dallas Austin -- it’s outside of oil patch? Correct.
Okay.
About third of it is Dallas 25% is Austin.
We don’t have any exposure in West Texas.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Your final question comes from the line of John Moran with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Good morning John.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just a quick kind of ticky-tack one for Karen on the securities that were added were all $2 billion [technical difficulty] evenly spread through the quarter? Yes the vast majority of that was added in the month of December more towards the end of December as opposed to the beginning.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then one other one just on the taxes and I understand that the leverage lease termination had an impact.
Was there an offset elsewhere in the P&amp;L there anything on OpEx? No the leverage lease termination did have an impact of about $5 million on a gain and there are other offsets based on the numbers that we reported.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Ralph Babb Chairman and CEO for any closing remarks.
Thanks for joining our call today and your interest in Comerica.
We appreciate it and hope you all have a good day.
Thanks.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.