Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Nancy Bufalino.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Casey.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our first quarter 2011 financial results.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning and can be found on the CNA website at www.cna.com along with our financial supplement.
On the call this morning are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig's discussion of the quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today May 2 2011 and CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
With respect to non-GAAP measures reconciliations with the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as the financial supplement.
Finally this call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed again on CNA's website.
With that I'll turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We are pleased to report our first quarter results.
The highlights were: Our core Property &amp; Casualty Operations' net written premiums increased 6% driven by growth in CNA Specialty; CNA Commercial's net written premiums were flat a dramatic improvement from last year's negative trend; our Commercial segment generated slightly over one point of improvement in the accident year loss ratio before catastrophes reflecting the positive impact of our ongoing underwriting initiatives to improve profitability; our capital position continued to improve book value per common share increased 3% to $41.75 with GAAP common shareholders' equity increasing to $11.2 billion; we completed a $400 million debt offering with the proceeds used to prepay senior notes due in August of this year; we signed a definitive merger agreement with CNA Surety: finally we announced a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.10 per share.
Turning to our financial results.
First quarter net operating income was $216 million or $0.80 per common share in 2011 as compared to $223 million or $0.74 per common share in 2010.
Net income in the first quarter was $223 million or $0.83 per common share as compared to $245 million or $0.82 per common share in the first quarter of 2010.
First quarter net operating income for Property &amp; Casualty Operations improved to $261 million in 2011 from $226 million in 2010.
Our catastrophe losses were higher quarter-over-quarter but the increase was more than offset by higher investment income and improved underwriting results before catastrophes.
The first quarter net operating loss from our Non-Core segments increased to $45 million in 2011 from $3 million in 2010.
Craig will discuss the Non-Core segment results in a moment.
The Property &amp; Casualty Operations combined ratio improved slightly to 101.9% as compared to 102.1% in the prior year period.
The ratio included 3.7 points of catastrophe losses in the current quarter as compared to 2.7 points in the first quarter of 2010.
Favorable prior year development reduced the first quarter combined ratio by 2 points in 2011 compared with a 2.7 point help in 2010.
Excluding development and catastrophes the first quarter 2011 combined ratio improved nearly 2 points to 100.2% which was primarily expense driven.
The first quarter expense ratio was 31.7% in 2011 as compared to 33.5% in 2010.
Two nonrecurring items accounted for the improvement.
This year's first quarter expenses were reduced by recoveries of insurance receivables written off in prior years.
Last year's first quarter included onetime expense charges associated with our IT outsourcing initiative.
The Property &amp; Casualty Operations' first quarter accident year loss ratio excluding catastrophes was 68.5% in both 2011 and 2010.
In CNA Specialty we grew net written premiums 13% in the first quarter a continuation of the growth we achieved in last year's fourth quarter.
Renewal rates were essentially flat in this year's first quarter a one point improvement over last year's first quarter.
First quarter renewal retention was 85% in 2011 as compared to 86% in 2010.
Exposures increased approximately 1% in the first quarter.
Specialty's first quarter ratio of new-to-lost business was 1.7:1.
Quarter-over-quarter submissions increased 23%.
The hit ratio improved by 3 points to 36%.
We are especially pleased by strong new business production in Professional &amp; Management Liability as well as our warranty business.
We generated 5% growth in policy count in Professional &amp; Management Liability.
These results validate our investment in more than 70 additional Specialty underwriters since mid-2009.
Specialty's first quarter combined ratio was 94.9% in 2011 as compared to 92.5% in the first quarter of 2010.
Favorable prior year development reduced these ratios by 3 points and 4.2 points respectively.
The impact of catastrophes was minimal in both periods.
Before development and catastrophes Specialty's first quarter combined ratio was 97.6% in 2011 compared with 96.4% in 2010.
Specialty's x cat accident year loss ratio was 66.9% in the first quarter of 2011 an increase of 1.5 points over first quarter of 2010 but relatively unchanged from full year 2010.
Turning to CNA Commercial.
First quarter net written premiums were flat in 2011 a welcome improvement from last year's premium trend even as we continue to focus on improved pricing and risk selection.
Renewal rates in Commercial increased 2% in the first quarter our sixth consecutive quarter of positive rate increase.
Renewal retention was 79% a one point improvement from the prior year's first quarter.
As for Commercial's flow of business first quarter submissions were up 6% and the hit ratio was down one point to 24%.
The new-to-lost business ratio was 1.1:1.
The return premium audits that reduced our premium volume in prior quarters continues to moderate.
In last year's first quarter return premium audits represented 3 points of a 10% decrease in net written premiums.
This year return premium audits had a negative one point impact.
The return premiums continue to be concentrated in our construction business.
CNA Commercial's first quarter combined ratio was 107.7% in 2011 as compared to 109.8% in 2010.
These ratios included catastrophe losses of 6.6 points and 4.7 points respectively.
First quarter favorable prior year development was 1.2 points in 2011 and 1.5 points in 2010.
Before catastrophes and development commercial's first quarter combined ratio improved more than 4 points to 102.3%.
Three points of the improvement are from the expense ratio which included the onetime items I mentioned earlier.
More significantly we are pleased to note that Commercial's first quarter x cat accident year loss ratio improved more than one point to 69.9% driven by our underwriting strategies.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
I would characterize the first quarter as a good one from an operating perspective.
We produced steady earnings and demonstrated meaningful progress across a number of fronts.
CNA's net operating income was $216 million and operating return on equity of 8.1%.
Operating income attributable to common shareholders increased 8% as compared to the prior year period to $0.80 per common share.
Operating EPS in the prior year period was reduced by the dividend paid on the senior preferred stock which was fully redeemed over the course of the last year.
Our Property &amp; Casualty business delivered improved operating earnings of $261 million up 15% over last year's first quarter fueled by investment income and helped by lower expenses increased revenue and a stable accident year loss ratio.
First quarter net income of $223 million includes after-tax realized capital gains of $8 million.
Impairment losses were modest and as in previous period the impairment largely reflects intent to sell decisions that are part of our ongoing portfolio management.
We continue to build on the strength of our balance sheet and to improve our financial flexibility.
We maintain a conservative capital structure.
All key capital adequacy metrics show consistently improving trends and our liquidity profile remains strong.
As previously announced we completed a $400 million debt offering in February and used the proceeds to prepay senior notes due in August of this year.
Our current outstanding debt maturities are well distributed with no significant maturities until December of 2014.
Book value per common share increased 3% from year-end 2010 to $41.75 per share reflecting first quarter earnings and an approximate $100 million increase in the market value of our investment portfolio.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $1.3 billion at quarter end.
Our common shareholders' equity excluding other comprehensive income increased 2% from year-end 2010 to $10.8 billion or $40.20 per common share.
Our statutory surplus also increased 3% to $10.1 billion from year-end 2010.
We continue to maintain approximately $1 billion of dividend capacity in our primary insurance operating company.
We were pleased to have announced that we have signed a definitive agreement for CNA to acquire the public minority stake in CNA Surety for $26.55 per share.
We continue to firmly believe that the transaction is in the best interest of all parties.
The next step is the commencement of the tender offer which we expect to commence as soon as practical.
Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to the tender offer we currently anticipate that the transaction will be completed by the end of the second quarter.
We expect the transaction will dilute our book value marginally but will be immediately accretive to earnings per share.
We continue to sustain our disciplined reserving practices.
Our Property &amp; Casualty business segment benefited from $34 million or 2 points of pretax favorable reserve development.
Our track record of favorable development now extends over 17 consecutive quarters.
We remain confident in the overall adequacy of our reserves.
Net operating income during the first quarter included pretax net investment income of $620 million a 5% increase from the prior year period driven by our limited partnership investments which had another very strong quarter.
Our LP investments produced first quarter pretax income of $114 million in 2011 as compared to $72 million in 2010.
The current quarter rate of return was 4.9%.
Investment income other than from limited partnerships was down slightly quarter-over-quarter to $506 million pretax.
The primary driver of the decline was a $1.1 billion decrease in our asset base reflecting last year's loss portfolio transfer with National Indemnity partially offset by a 4 basis point increase in average portfolio returns reflecting reduction over the past year in our short-term holdings and a $2.2 billion shift from tax-exempt to higher yielding taxable munis.
Our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid and high quality as well as aligned with our business objectives.
Current allocation of assets is in line with our established longer-term targets.
The average credit quality of the fixed maturity profile remained at A.
We continue to segment our portfolio to facilitate our asset liability management discipline.
The assets which support our long-duration life-like liabilities had an effective duration of 11.2 years at quarter end up slightly from fourth quarter last year and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.6 years at quarter end unchanged from the end of 2010's fourth quarter.
In the first quarter of 2011 we generated approximately $110 million of operating cash flow excluding trading activities.
Additionally we received approximately $1 billion of cash principal repayments through pay-downs bond calls and maturities.
Our financial flexibility is further enhanced by approximately $140 million of cash and short-term investments held at the holding company level.
At quarter end these investments represented onetime or annual net pretax interest expense.
The full $250 million of our credit facility is also available to us.
Our Life &amp; Group Non-Core segment produced a first quarter net operating loss of $18 million as compared with income of $1 million in the first quarter last year.
This unfavorable comparison was primarily driven by the commutation of an assumed reinsurance agreement in the first quarter of 2010 that produced $15 million of after-tax favorable development.
Results from our pension investment business were also down slightly while lower expenses partially offset these impacts.
Corporate segment produced a first quarter net operating loss of $27 million in 2011 as compared to a loss of $4 million in 2010.
The Corporate segment profile was changed substantially by actions taken last year.
Last year's asbestos and environmental loss portfolio transfer decreased our net reserve and associated asset and capital base.
Consequently investment income allocated to the segment was down significantly but was largely offset by reduced claim handling expenses.
You will recall that we funded part of last year's senior preferred stock with redemption with long-term debt.
That additional interest expense is also reflected in operating income while the more than offsetting benefit of the 10% preferred stock dividend elimination is only reflected in the earnings attributable to common shareholders' calculation.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
All in all we had a good first quarter.
Our core Property &amp; Casualty Operations performed well investment results were strong and our capital position continued to improve.
We grew significantly in Specialty.
In Commercial we improved our premium trend while continuing to execute our underwriting strategies and improve our loss ratio.
Looking ahead we are well positioned to continue our progress on improving our financial and operational results.
With that we will be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I guess first a numbers question.
The benefit to the expense ratio from the recovery of the premiums receivable write-down can you quantify that for us? It's about -- Jay it's about $20 million.
So close to 1.5 in P&amp;C on the expense ratio.
It's all concentrated in Commercial so that's 3 in Commercial.
Got it.
Second question again more numbers question.
The premium in the Commercial segment our recollection is you had sold an Argentinean business and I'm wondering if that's still in this quarter distorted the comparison or is that over at this point? That's still in there.
Last year would've been something close to $25 million of premium in the first quarter of '10.
So x that you would've seen a little bit of growth then it sounds like it? Yes.
Right.
Right.
And I guess last question for now the favorable reserve development in the quarter which continued but it was quite a bit smaller as far as the scale of that reserve related to what we've been seeing.
And I know this number can jump around all over the place but this was the lowest number in really sometime.
Should we read anything into that? Have you seen any change in the claims trends that would suggest that this favorable development will eventually go away given that it was more –- a bit more modest this quarter? Maybe I can start.
I don't know if Tom wants to add anything to this but Jay I'd say that if you looked at the amount of favorable development this year's first quarter it's pretty consistent with what it was in the first quarter of last year both in dollars and in point terms.
And just remember that -- what our behavior has been.
We look at -- we don't look at all the reserves every quarter.
This quarter we looked at something slightly less than 25% of the reserves.
And the decisions we’ve made were based on the estimate changes on reserves we looked at this quarter so when we're confident in the numbers we have to release it.
I don't think I'd take it any further than that.
Yes I think as Craig said Jay last year's first quarter was 2.7 points of favorable development.
This year it's 2 points.
That's pretty close.
It's lumpy quarter-to-quarter depending what we review.
So we don't think it's remarkable.
I do see now a pattern where the first quarter has tended to be smaller as far as the reserve change versus the other 3 so that's helpful.
Yes you're correct.
What's that? You are correct.
We'll take our next question from Amit Kumar with MacQuarie.
Maybe just starting with the catastrophe losses.
First of all can you expand on what these losses were in Q1 and maybe also touch upon the recent Q2 losses and how that could impact your results.
Okay first of all in the first quarter it's $55 million $29 million relate to the winter storms in the U.S.
$25 million to Japan earthquake tsunami and if you combine Australia and New Zealand about $1 million.
As far as what's gone on in the U.S.
claims are still coming in but it's not material relative to dollars at this point in time.
Okay that's helpful.
And the Japanese loss can you give some more color? Where exactly did that come from? Well if you look at property we write accounts that have exposure around the globe and that is typically called shared and layered business.
So along with other insurers we take in most cases a very small piece of the pie.
So I would describe it as small losses but there are a bunch them.
But as I said it's $25 million.
It's less than the U.S.
winter storms.
Got it.
That's actually quite helpful.
Moving on and this is a topic which you have touched upon previously now that you're closer to closing this SUR acquisition maybe we can revisit the discussion on capital management and refresh us on what your thoughts are for a special dividend since we cannot buy back stock.
Yes Amit this is Craig.
So we make it a practice of not commenting on future capital actions.
But maybe you can just share how do you think about capital? Do you plan to continue to grow your top line? Or where are we headed just based on the leverage? Well we are -- we have -- we are very happy with the capital level so we certainly have more than enough capital to support the growth in the businesses.
In the businesses we see we have more than enough capital to deal with unforeseen circumstances and then we certainly have another level of capital that we could decide something else to do with but really nothing to talk about at this point.
Okay.
Just one other question and then I'll come back.
On the Life &amp; Non-Core the $44 million $47 million loss that seemed to be a bit higher than the Q4 number.
And I'm just wondering is that sort of a good run rate going forward or were there any other one timers in Q1 numbers? Well let me break it down between the 2 segments.
So Life &amp; Group loss was $18 million.
That's pretty consistent with the $15 million loss we had in Q4.
And the Corporate loss this quarter was $27 million which is pretty consistent with I think the Corporate loss in the fourth quarter was $22 million.
So this year in the first quarter you kind of get the full amount of the interest expense coming through in Corporate.
But I think both of those are relatively consistent with what you should expect and pretty consistent with what we've produced over the last year and in the Corporate since we kind of redid the Corporate segment.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen and McAlenney.
I was wondering if we could stay on CNA Surety.
Now that we got a definitive agreement I would love to have any commentary about motivations for doing it and in general what's going on in pricing in that business relative to the rest of your Specialty business.
Are the rates and retention rates similar? Well I think Bob what we said a while ago was we like the Surety business.
We understand the Surety business and we thought it was a logical next step for us at CNA Financial to go after the remaining outstanding shares.
So we think it's a good business that's why we are buying the rest of the shares.
So near term what's going on in the pricing and persistency trends retention trends in that business compared to the rest of your Specialty book? Well I think they reported on Friday so that would be the public information.
When we own it we'll tell you more.
Yes.
You break out the stat surplus for your Life and PC; is the GAAP equity sort of associated with those businesses comparable? We have not broken out how we've allocated GAAP equity Bob.
Okay.
What do you think the trend is for your surplus levels in the Life company.
I mean it basically hasn't been going down over time.
I mean is this sort of $0.5 billion of stat surplus in that business for a bit or is there a sort of visibility of 5 years from now we could be a lot lower? No I think what you see it's just a little over $500 million in it now it's like $509 million if I remember correctly which was in the supplement.
And we do produce a small amount of consistent earnings in that business so asking some actions on our part to take it off I expect it to kind of grow with the earnings and the earnings of that have been pretty consistent over a few years so I mean it's very modest change.
When you say your reported earnings you’re talking about statutory as opposed to GAAP? Statutory earnings in the Life company yes.
Because you reported GAAP loss pretty consistently in that right? Right.
But recall that the Life Group segment includes right it's payout annuities benefits settlement options the pension deposit business those are all in the Life legal entity.
In the long-term care business which we also report in the Life Group segment that's actually in the Continental Casualty Company legal entity and it's a different legal entity.
So legal entities in the segment aren't 100% aligned.
Okay.
So the stat picture's better than the GAAP picture for the Life company now and prospectively.
When you separate what businesses are in there correct.
And we will take a follow-up question from Amit Kumar with MacQuarie.
Just quickly going back sort of just a broader discussion on reinsurance rates can you refresh us when does your reinsurance treaty renew and remind us what the limits are? We renewed -- the cat treaty was renewed in January Amit.
And what are the limits on that? We have like 600 -- the retention is 300 and we bought 6x3.
Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And the only other question I have is obviously there has been this broader discussion on the economic recovery and you alluded to it briefly.
Maybe just refresh us.
I mean obviously you've seen these market conditions for a long time.
What are your views on a market turn going forward? And do you think that the increase in reinsurance pricing would sort of filter down to the primary level and could lead to a market turnaround? I think our belief is that what's going to happen on property cat reinsurance pricing will affect property cat business.
We do not see it as being a harbinger of a broad market turn.
So I think you have to put that kind of on the side.
What we are very encouraged about is that if you look at exposures exposure continues to improve in Commercial and in fact that is slightly positive so that's one of the best things we've seen in quite a few quarters even probably a few years in Commercial.
If you look at Specialty we are getting about one point in exposure growth so that's obviously very positive.
So I'd say on exposure which is connected to the economy at least the way we insurance geeks look at it we're feeling that it is stabilized and hopefully moving in a positive direction.
If you look at rates we got 2 points of rate in Commercial.
That's been -- I guess we've had about 6 quarters of positive rate.
Again if you go back probably over back to 2006 that's the highest rate that we've seen in that time period.
So rates in Commercial look good.
On the Specialty side rates are flat and that's kind of an improvement as well.
So when you look at rate and exposure which is really your pricing dynamics we're feeling pretty good with where the market is and where we are and I think you've heard comments similar to that.
So I would say this is the glass is half full.
Maybe a year ago we were saying it was a half-empty glass.
So I think we're seeing some improvement but does that mean that there'll be a broad turn in rate increases? I can't predict that and I wouldn't predict it.
That's actually quite helpful.
And then just related to that and this is sort of the final question do you think that the competition sort of agrees with where you are? Or are there still some companies which are being aggressive? And I guess related to that if the economy improves are you sort of seeing a commensurate increase or change in the loss cost inflation? I think the first thing is that the market appears to be acting rationally.
There is always evidence of a rogue trader but we're seeing less of those out there today than we would have seen 6 or 9 months ago.
So I think the market is a more rational market.
It's still competitive.
It's always competitive but we don't see real craziness out there like we may have seen a while ago.
I think people are falling into a comfort zone.
They like their book of business.
They're trying to retain their book.
They're pushing rate a little bit.
Exposure is helping us all.
So I think the market is fairly stable to use a term.
And then on the loss cost inflation? Well we always look at inflationary trends and quite honestly the one that concerns us most because we rank workers comp and general liability is medical inflation and our actuaries have adjusted that a little bit upwards.
And overall we are anticipating there will be some inflation out there probably good for us on the investment side.
On the claims side you don't like to see claims inflation but for us our new arising activity is going down in claims and we think that's very positive.
So with less frequency hopefully it will have less of an impact should it go up.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take a follow-up question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
If you could just clarify something.
I think you said there was dividend capacity of $1 billion from the insurance subs up to the holding company.
Has -- that hasn't been paid then yet? No.
So no dividend in the first quarter? No dividend in the first quarter.
Is there a -- seasonally is there a typical time where you do pay a dividend? Really only when we need the cash.
So recall that we still have a $500 million surplus note that the holding company owns from the operating sub.
So if we were going to go look for cash to fund debt payments then the common dividend likely will come first from repayment of the surplus note or a portion of it because that will have less of an impact on dividend capacity.
So more than likely sometimes it's in the coming quarter perhaps a little bit of state [ph] from the surplus note and usually then sometime in the fourth quarter of the year.
As a pattern we've -- actually there's no real pattern to it.
We'll take our next question from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
I have a question I guess for Tom.
When you see the market improving in the -- you mentioned exposure is increasing reflecting I guess largely the economy improving.
And then maybe related to that -- or unrelated to that you see some improvement maybe it's just stabilization in rate but you see some improvement in rate.
Do you sort of instruct the underwriters any differently or they just basically keep doing the same thing that they were doing 3 6 9 12 months ago? We wouldn't tell them to do what they did 12 months ago because we kind of push them every quarter to get more rate and write quality new business.
So it's not a static plan.
It's a dynamic plan.
So depending on what the opportunity is in the marketplace by line of business by geography we will push them to either write more new business or just push rate on the renewal and not write new business.
So it changes.
And that's one thing by having a pretty robust field operation we're constantly in conversation with them as to where they see the opportunity or where they don't.
So that's kind of always a moving target.
But right now we're instructing our underwriters to make sure they're getting the exposure numbers make sure we're getting that and also to be pushing rate where it's appropriate to push rate by line of business by account by geography.
So is it more emboldened -- emboldening them to that more it sounds like.
Yes.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Peter's Sues [ph] with Surveyor Capital.
I was just wondering if you could provide little bit more color on the improvement potential in the accident year x cat combined ratio on Commercial because you're still re-underwriting the book but now I guess you're also getting 2% rate increases.
So I'm wondering if the re-underwriting could actually improve the accident year ratio from here? Well that's our desire.
We're focused on improving our accident year results in Commercial and every line of business within Commercial.
When you re-underwrite a book you do a few things.
Number one is you take your renewable book you decide what you want to keep what you want to get rid of and then when you decide what you keep you decide what you got to get in pricing that's great.
So that's kind of the first step.
But the other thing is when you write new business you want to be writing new business at adequate rates and also in the industries that you think can provide better accident year and calendar year results over time.
So it's really a mix-of-business issue as well as industry issue as well as pricing issue as well as what we call underwriting actions relative to terms and conditions covers grants et cetera.
So there are a lot of moving pieces and all of those are in process and they certainly have not ended.
And what inning would you say we're in with the underwriting -- re-underwriting? What's that? I didn't get your question.
What inning would you say that we're in with respect to the re-underwriting of the book? Well you're always underwriting the book.
You never stop underwriting the book.
But I think we're a good ways into the process but you don't get your achieved objective on every account the first time around.
So it takes a while to get the book where you want it but we're clearly gaining on it as evidenced by the improvement in accident year loss ratio and the ability to get rates as well as exposure.
So we think it's moving along but I wouldn't give you a percentage.
Thank you.
And that concludes the question-and-answer session today.
I'll turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's presentation.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Nancy Bufalino.
Please go ahead.
Thank you James and good morning.
Welcome to CNA's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
Our press release was issued earlier this morning along with our financial supplement that can be found on CNA's website.
On the call this morning are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; along with Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig's remarks about the quarterly financial results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday August 1 2011 and CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding references to non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as the financial supplement.
Finally this call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed again on CNA's website.
And with that I'll turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Let me start by saying we are delighted with the positive premium growth in our Specialty and Commercial businesses.
This is the first quarter in which we have had positive growth in both Specialty and Commercial since the fourth quarter of 2006.
Submission activity in new business continued to be strong particularly in those industries where we are concentrating and dedicating our resources.
We are also pleased with the improving rate trends across our Property &amp; Casualty business.
CNA's financial foundation continues to improve as well.
Book value per common share increased 3% since the end of this year's first quarter and 6% since year end 2010.
Turning to our financial results net operating income was $116 million or $0.43 per common share in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to $269 million or $0.91 per common share in the same period last year.
The decline was primarily due to lower levels of favorable prior year development $0.17 per share in this year's second quarter versus $0.64 in last year's second quarter as well as an increase in catastrophe losses.
These losses reduced this year's second quarter earnings by -- earnings per share by $0.24 versus $0.12 last year.
Net operating income from Property &amp; Casualty Operations was $153 million in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to $293 million in the second quarter last year.
These results included after-tax catastrophe losses of $65 million and $31 million respectively.
The second quarter net operating loss from our Life &amp; Group and Corporate segments was $37 million in 2011 and $24 million in 2010.
Craig will comment on these segments in a moment.
The Property &amp; Casualty Operations combined ratio was 105.7% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to 89.5% in the same period last year.
These ratios benefited from favorable development of 4.8 points and 18.4 points respectively.
Second quarter catastrophe losses represented 6.9 points in 2011 and 3.3 points in 2010.
While our cat losses were significant considering the severity of the widespread events and their impact on industry loss ratios we believe our 6.9 points of losses reflect well on our disciplined approach to catastrophe management.
Before development and catastrophes the second quarter 2011 combined ratio improved 1 point to 103.6% from 104.6%.
The improvement was primarily driven by the accident year loss ratio before catastrophes.
This ratio was 69.4% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to 70.3% in the second quarter of 2010.
The Property &amp; Casualty Operations expense ratio in this year's second quarter was 34.2% which was inflated by a onetime charge.
Our run rate expense ratio is approximately 33.5% consistent with our full year expense ratio in 2010 at which we've been able to sustain while continuing to make investments to grow our Property &amp; Casualty business.
Noncommissioned expenses contributed 15.1 points to the expense ratio in this year's second quarter a 0.2 point decrease from the prior year period while commission expenses contributed 19.1 points an increase of 0.6 points.
The Property &amp; Casualty Operations combined ratio was 103.8% for the first 6 months of 2011 as compared to 95.8% in the same period in 2010.
These ratios benefited from favorable development of 3.4 points and 10.6 points respectively.
Catastrophe losses in these periods represented 5.3 points in 2011 and 3 points in 2010.
Before development and catastrophes the combined ratio improved by 1.5 points to 101.9% in the first 6 months of 2011 as compared to 103.4% in the same period in 2010.
The accident year loss ratio before catastrophes was 68.9% in the first 6 months of 2011 as compared to 69.6% in the full year of 2010.
In CNA Specialty net written premiums grew 6% in the second quarter building upon positive growth in the previous 3 quarters.
Renewal rates were flat in this year's second quarter and first 6 months which represented a 2-point improvement over the same periods last year.
Second quarter renewal retention was 85% in both 2011 and 2010 and 86% for the first 6 months of both years.
Exposures were up slightly in the second quarter of 2011.
Specialty's second quarter ratio of new to loss business was 1.41 quarter-over-quarter submissions increased 8%.
The hit ratio improved by 6 points to 33%.
We are pleased by a 16% increase in new business production as well as a 4% policy cap growth driven by our Professional &amp; Management Liability businesses as well as some of our program business.
Specialty's second quarter combined ratio was 92.2% in 2011 as compared to 79% in 2010.
Favorable prior year development benefited these ratios by 7.7 points and 18.6 points respectively.
The impact of catastrophes was approximately 0.5 point in both periods.
Before development and catastrophes Specialty's second quarter combined ratio was 99.3% in 2011 compared with 97.1% in 2010.
Specialty's x cat accident year loss ratio was 67.9% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to 66.3% in the same period last year.
The ratio was 67.4% in the first 6 months of 2011 as compared to 66.6% in the full year of 2010.
The Specialty market has been extremely competitive over the last several years particularly in commercial D&amp;O.
The increase in our loss ratio was a direct reflection of the competitive rate environment.
While we're not pleased with this deterioration we are encouraged to have held rates flat the last 2 quarters after 18 consecutive quarters of decreases in our specialty book.
Turning to CNA Commercial.
Second quarter net written premiums increased 5% in 2011 as compared to a 11% decrease in the second quarter of 2010.
Renewal rates in Commercial increased 2% in the second quarter and first half of 2011 consistent with last year's second quarter and 1 point better than last year's first half.
Renewal retention was 78% in the second quarter of both 2011 and 2010.
That 79% retention in the first 6 months of 2011 was 1 point better than in the same period last year.
Exposures were flat in the second quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Commercial's new to loss business ratio was 1:1.
Quarter-over-quarter submissions increased 12% and the hit ratio decreased 2 points to 24%.
New business increased 15% and policy cap increased 3%.
Additional premiums from audits contributed approximately 0.5 point to our 5% growth in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to return premiums representing almost 2 points of our reduced premiums in the second quarter of 2010.
CNA Commercial combined ratio was 117.7% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to 98.4% in the same period last year.
These ratios benefited from favorable prior year development of 1.8 points and 18 points respectively.
Catastrophe losses represented 12.5 points in the second quarter of 2011 and 5.7 points in last year's second quarter.
Before development and catastrophes Commercial's combined ratio improved 3.7 points in the second quarter of 2011 to 107% from 110.7% in last year's second quarter.
Commercial's x cat accident year loss ratio was 70.6% in the second quarter of 2011 as compared to 73.5% in last year's second quarter.
The ratio was 70.2% in the first 6 months of 2011 as compared to 72.1% for the full year of 2010 nearly 2 points of improvement.
In the second quarter we completed the acquisition of the minority shares of CNA Surety increasing the scale of our profitable Specialty business.
Finally we announced the quarterly common stock dividend of $0.10 per share.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
While the absolute level of earnings in the second quarter were not what we would want or expect the quarter was won marked by notable progress toward our long-term objectives.
Revenue growth broad-based rate improvement the improving performance of our Commercial line segment and our cat management discipline were significant and positive.
CNA's net operating income was $116 million and operating return on equity of 4.2%.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $0.43 per common share as compared to $0.91 in the prior year period.
The year-over-year decline is attributable to a higher level of cats this quarter and a lower level of favorable prior year reserve development.
Second quarter net income was $126 million and included after-tax realized capital gains of $10 million.
Impairment losses were modest and largely reflect intent to sell decisions that are part of our ongoing portfolio management.
We continue to build on the strength of our balance sheet and improve our financial flexibility.
All key capital adequacy metrics continues to improve and our liquidity profile remains strong.
We are pleased to complete the acquisition of the public minority stake in CNA Surety in June.
As we've indicated earlier the transaction had a marginally dilutive impact on book value.
You'll be able to see those details in our 10-Q which we expect to file tomorrow.
We continue to believe that both our Surety business and CNA will benefit from this strategic realignment.
Book value per common share increased 3% from the end of the first quarter of 2011 to $43.09 per share.
The increase was driven by earnings and improvement in the market value of our investment portfolio.
At the end of the second quarter our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $1.8 billion an increase of approximately $500 million from the end of the first quarter.
Our common shareholders' equity excluding other comprehensive income was $10.9 billion or a $40.37 per common share at June 30 2011 up slightly from the end of the end of this year's first quarter.
Our statutory surplus was unchanged at $10.1 billion from the end of this year's first quarter despite the statutory accounting impact of the Surety transaction and a $100 million repayment of the $1 billion surplus note originally issued in 2008.
This surplus repayment leaves an outstanding balance of $400 million at the end of the second quarter.
Our primary insurance operating company continues to maintain approximately $1 billion of dividend capacity.
Our financial flexibility is further enhanced by slightly over $200 million of cash and short-term investments held at the holding company level.
The full $250 million of our credit facility is also available to us.
In the second quarter of 2011 we generated approximately $315 million of operating cash flow excluding trading activity.
Additionally we received approximately $860 million of cash principal repayments through paydowns bond calls and maturity.
We continue to sustain our discipline reserving practices.
Our Property &amp; Casualty business segments benefited from $102 million of pretax favorable loss development.
Our track record of favorable development now extends over 18 consecutive quarters.
We remain confident in the overall adequacy of our reserves.
I know that there's been a lot of chatter about the impact of RMS version 11 both on individual companies as well as the industry from an underwriting pricing and capital management perspective.
We have spent a considerable amount of time reviewing this latest version of RMS' cat model to understand the model itself and its impact on CNA's property portfolio.
More importantly we have worked to validate the model's assumptions against our historic experience and professional judgment.
We are now calibrating a new model in light of CNA's proprietary model adjustment.
It's important to know that we have historically adjusted the prior model's output upward to reflect our view of model performance for many aspects of risk management including the reinsurance purchasing decision.
In light of these upward adjustments the impact of an increase in this new RMS model output is largely mitigated.
Additionally we view RMS as a single data point to inform us in our business decisions.
We are incorporating this new information in the context of many other data points including other vendor models and most importantly our own experience and of course exercising our own professional judgment.
At this time we do not expect the implementation of this new model to significantly change our ongoing operations nor will it require us to buy additional reinsurance protection.
We have a heightened degree of confidence in our property underwriting abilities.
We've mentioned before the improvement in the accident year of commercialized loss ratio is largely attributable to those capability improvements as well as our cat management disciplines.
Our results compared to Commercial line's tier stacked up very well.
We have plenty of capital available to support those underwriting activities and are well positioned to act on any market opportunities that may present themselves.
Net operating income during the second quarter included pretax investment income of $517 million a slight decrease in the prior year period.
Fixed maturity and security income decreased 3% reflecting a reduction in our asset base from last year's loss portfolio transfer with National Indemnity and the cash needed to fund the CNA Surety purchase as well as the effect of today's lower market yields.
Our limited partnership investments produced second quarter of pretax income of $11 million in 2011 as compared to a pretax loss of $4 million in 2010.
Our second quarter LP results are below the very strong levels of the preceding 3 quarters reflective of the uneven financial market performance this quarter.
The second quarter and 6-month rates of return were 0.4% and 5.4% respectively.
You will notice that we have revised the format of the investment information in our financial supplement to provide what we hope you will find more useful and relevant information about our portfolio and to better reflect how we manage the distinct portfolio dedicated to our ongoing P&amp;C business and our Life runoff segment.
The revised format is organized to provide new and comprehensive overview of our portfolio composition by asset class and by credit quality.
Further detail of portfolio composition is provided for the P&amp;C general accounts and Life portfolios.
We made relatively insignificant changes to our investment portfolio sector allocations this quarter.
There was a small increase in tax exempt initial bonds and a corresponding decrease in investment grade corporate bonds.
Our mortgage asset-backed portfolio reflects net purchases centered in agency mortgages and a continued runoff of our non-agency RMBS portfolio which is now only $1.8 billion.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid and high quality as well as aligned with our business objectives.
The current allocation of assets is in line with our established longer-term target.
The average credit quality of the fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
The fixed income assets which support our long duration life-like liabilities had an effective duration of 11.5 years at quarter end up slightly from the end of this year's first quarter and in line with portfolio target.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.4 years at quarter end down slightly from the end of this year's first quarter.
Our Life &amp; Group Non-Core segment produced a second quarter net operating loss of $19 million in 2011 and $18 million in 2010.
There were no significant changes in the fundamental performance of these businesses.
The Corporate segment produced a second quarter net operating loss of $18 million in 2011 as compared to a loss of $6 million in 2010.
You will recall that the Corporate segment profile was changed substantially by actions taken last year.
The asbestos and environmental loss portfolio transfer completed in the last year's third quarter decreased our net reserve and associated asset and capital base.
Consequently investment income allocated to this segment has decreased significantly but has been largely offset by reduced client handling expenses.
The Corporate segment's results also reflect the additional interest expense from the increase of long-term debt that funded a portion of the preferred stock repayment that we completed last year.
That additional interest expense is reflected in operating income while the more than offsetting benefit of the 10% preferred stock dividend elimination is only reflected in the earnings attributable to common shareholders' calculation.
While not significant it is notable that our Corporate segment's results include the benefit of $8 million of favorable reserve development reflecting positive outcomes from our CNA Re runoff book.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
All in all the second quarter was marked by continued improvement in our ability to serve customers and increase shareholder value.
The highlights were premium growth in both our Specialty and Commercial businesses with strong submission activity and new business positive momentum on rates with an improving rate trends in Specialty and continued rate increases in Commercial improving loss ratios in Commercial continued discipline in our approach to cat management and completion of the acquisition of the minority shares of CNA Surety.
We will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Several questions.
In the prepared remarks you had mentioned the expense ratio was impacted by a onetime charge.
Can you identify what that was and quantify that please? Yes.
Jay it's Craig.
The charge was $60 million and it was for premium.
We have a reserve for expected premium recoveries from retrospectively rated policies mostly very old policy years from the old risk management casualty business that we took down this quarter.
So that had a little more than 1 point impact on the expense ratio this quarter.
Okay.
That' was helpful.
And you are saying -- so it's just that all showed up in the expense item or is it a premium change as well? It was -- so but it turned up in the really the charge to the earned premium so it decreased or depressed earned premium.
There were some other offsetting good guys this quarter which is why as Tom said in his remarks he really think that run rate expense ratio is more like 33.5%.
Okay that's helpful.
And then another question I had.
You mentioned on the Commercial business that exposures were flat I believe.
And I guess we've heard from others there seems to be some increase in exposure and I'm wondering -- I mean obviously you can't comment on what others are saying but given the really difficult economy we came out of and things are stabilizing one might expect things to be a little bit better but just comment on the exposure growth.
Well it is flat no denying that.
I think one of the things you have to consider is we have been a bit of a laggard on exposure.
If you go back the last few quarters where we have been negative others have been flat and moving into positive territory.
So we're a little bit behind on that.
And we also have a pretty big construction portfolio and that is in negative territories.
So that drags the whole thing down.
Great and then if I could sneak in one more.
On the Specialty side I think you mentioned your hit ratio was up by 6 percentage points to 33%.
And I guess I found that a little surprising given that rates are flat.
I guess I wouldn't expect to see the hit ratio move all that dramatically.
What was driving that increase do you think? We have been pushing for several quarters on what we would call smaller business.
So this is not the big public D&amp;O business driving the boat here.
So it's really going after smaller accounts where we put a lot of people on the ground.
This would be not-for-profit business private business but it's smaller accounts and that pushes the policy count up pretty quickly when you're writing lots of small stuff.
Next we'll hear from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more color on long-term care and how much that was.
I'm sorry Bob.
Exactly what are you...
The press release mentions you were offset by unfavorable claim experience in our long-term care business in the Life &amp; Group Non-Core? Yes.
You can see the Life &amp; Group Non-Core loss is pretty steady and has been pretty steady for any number of quarters at about the level it is.
So the difference we're seeing we have -- we made it -- some so we reduced expenses but the claims are running about -- are running up about $10 million a quarter just kind of roughly offsetting what the expense reduction is.
It's why there's really no change in results.
But given the overall size and scope of it it's a relatively insignificant change.
I just want to make sure I understand this.
So we should look for long-term care to continue running $10 million worse a quarter? Or is that just a onetime sort of true up in the quarter? Bob I'm a little lost by -- we've been running about an $18 million $19 million loss in this segment every quarter for a while so -- and it's been pretty steady.
No I understand that.
But you had some positives in there lower expenses and but you just -- in the press release you highlighted that we have worst claim experience in long-term care.
So that's just an ongoing worst claim experience pressure.
That's nothing new is what you're saying.
Nothing new.
That's right.
I know asbestos doesn't run through your operating statements due to the NICO transaction but and maybe you don't look at them quarter-to-quarter as a result but I was wondering if there was anything in your experience to substantiate what Hartford said about increased claim activity.
I would say number one we can't speak for what's going on with the other carriers.
So I don't think we have an answer for you that on Bob.
So it has hit your radar screen that asbestos activities popped up? Well we're not as concerned as we once were.
The deal we think that was good for us and shareholders long term.
So we're focused on other things other than asbestos.
I'm thankful for that and it was a good transaction.
Just if we get 15 to 20 years of asbestos activity it's a lot more than you think.
It could come back somewhere way down the road.
So but you probably don't need to track it quarter-to-quarter anymore which is productive from my vantage point.
Does share repurchase stand in your radar screen is the dividend sort of shooting your bullet on capital management too? I think the share repurchase is still down the list of things on the radar screen.
If I could also just add something.
We certainly monitor the claim outcomes with National Indemnity and we'll do our regular reserve review on asbestos and environmental and we'll do it in the fourth quarter.
So we're not ignoring it but we're certainly not as sensitive to it and we're very happy to not have to deal with it at present.
Amit Kumar with Macquarie has our next question.
Just going back to your opening comments on the premium growth you're writing at an NPW to surplus off approximately 0.6x.
Could you refresh us how you're thinking about return on equity going forward? What sort of roadmap do you have in sort of achieving let's say a double-digit return on equity? Well I mean the big driver Amit is going to be improved level of earnings in the Property &amp; Casualty business.
As well as things we can do to mitigate the losses coming out of the runoff segment.
So when we think of improved long-term improvements ROE they have to come from that which is why we felt encouraged when you look particularly at Commercial line and you see the run rate improvement.
We feel like we're making some progress there.
So that's the bigger driver.
We certainly consider and think about and talk about among ourselves as well as with our board actions on the capital side.
But at present we're happy to have all these options available kind of out in front of us.
And I think that's going to describe our general conversations and discussions here.
Does it -- so if I understand it correctly just related to that you acquired the remaining portion of SUR.
You reinstated a common stock dividend.
I'm just trying to understand the level of importance.
Is the focus more on continuing to build teams and underwriters and other hiring all when you look at the level of excess capital reducing your ROEs? How do you think about either raising the common stock dividend or a special dividend down the road? I would say that we recognize the need to manage all of those things.
So what I've meant to say was the bigger driver and the real improvement is going to come from improved underwriting margins and improved underwriting income performance.
But we recognize the need to also manage capital and do something productive with the excess.
So why we're happy to have -- we'd like to keep our options open at present.
And I think relative to any changes in the comment or other consideration that's really more of a fourth quarter sort of time frame conversation than it is right now.
Got it that's actually helpful.
And just a final question and I might reach you.
I missed some of the comments.
You were talking about a loss uptick in D&amp;O business.
Could you just go back to that and expand a bit? I didn't hear your question Amit.
I was thinking you talked about like a loss uptick in some segments.
You said the loss trends had changed adversely or had ticked up.
And I missed that comment I apologize.
Can you just expand on that? Yes.
If you look at the Specialty business I believe it was the third quarter of 2010 we told you that we were seeing increases in loss activity in advanced medical technologies and employment practices liability.
So that increase in frequency and severity has I shouldn't say help but hurt Specialty deteriorated loss ratio a bit.
[Operator Instructions] We'll now hear from Adrian Meli with Eagle Capital.
Could you guys try to explain how we get to 13% to 15% long-term ROE given the drag from the life insurance business and long-term care? We're just trying to figure out here how much equity capital that business takes and what the kind of long-term drag on the ROEs from it.
We haven't and Adrian I appreciate your question but we have not disclosed the equity capital allocation in the Life group.
Clearly it's a drag and clearly anything we can do to mitigate that loss is helpful.
And I think we've said in the past we look at options all the time for dealing with that long term and nothing on the horizon.
So the way to get to 13% and 15% is improving the P&amp;C returns.
And that's really where we've been we've been focused on everything but primarily are focused on that.
Is it possible with your current revenue if the cycle turned and your profitability went up is it possible given the specialty mix that you could get the ROE today? Or would you have to grow premiums a lot to dilute that business to get those returns? Well I think a couple of things.
Number one the market is what it is.
So our objective is to grow in this marketplace and also improve the loss ratio.
So we had a good quarter on growth for both Commercial and Specialty.
We're in positive territory for the first time in quite a few years.
So we're encouraged with that.
We're encouraged with all of the metrics that support that whether that be rate new business submission activities.
So number one organic growth.
It's something we have to do regardless of where we are in the market cycle and we need to make sure it's profitable.
We continue to be encouraged with what's going on in Commercial.
And when we look at rates everybody's interested in rates.
I can tell you when we give you our rate number in Commercial that's kind of a worldwide number.
Some companies will give you U.S.
only.
If we look at our U.S.
business which is the predominant piece of Commercial rates are really closer to 4%.
So the underlying daily business that we're conducting we're seeing good rates we're seeing good new business and we believe the pricing on the new business is adequate.
So as Craig said we have to improve our margins in Commercial and Specialty and that's what we are focused on.
So when we do that the expense ratio is going to come down as well.
So there are lots of things that enter into the play.
It's not as easy they're saying there's 2 things or 3 things.
There are a lot of things we're working on that we think over time in this current market condition will pan out favorably for us.
If the market takes off with rate increases dramatic rate increases that's going to be positive for everybody.
It will be positive for us as well.
So right now we're just focused on being in the current market and really kind of pulling on all the levers we know to improve the results.
So that would be a longer haul to get to that number in the current market.
We have a follow-up question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a follow-up on this ROE question.
It seems to me that capital management or something to do with Life business kind of has to play a role.
I mean I just did some quick math and to get to 13% to 15% ROE you'd had to have a combined ratio probably in the high 70s or maybe low 80s which is not going to happen.
And obviously interest rates are low and that adds additional pressure.
And I'm wondering you mentioned Craig things you are considering or things you haven't looked at on the Life business.
Can you talk about those things? So that's one.
And then separately on capital management why not do a special dividend? What's the argument against it? Let me start with the last question first.
I don't think there is the argument against the special.
It's just it's less effective and impactful to common shareholders than just increasing the common shareholder dividend.
So there's no -- being negative to that.
And it's among the array of options that we have including spending the money on whether continuing the business or continuing their best or potential acquisitions.
Anything is on the table which is why I said it's important to keep our options open and things in front of us right now.
As far as your question on the Life business I don't appreciate the reason and the kind of pressing on the question but I don't have any kind of generic.
I think you had asked this before option or idea on the table.
So there's really nothing specific to offer you.
And just like all the rest of our businesses and just like Tom said we need to do any number of things in order to improve the ROE and get to that result.
And among all those number of things including the Life business but the other primary objective at present what's right in front of us right now is improving the P&amp;C business.
I guess the good news is the -- so the underlying loss ratio for the company last 3 quarters have shown improvement and well it's arguably still a challenging market.
So there's clearly some progress being made there.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no questions at this time.
I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Tom Motamed for a closing comment.
Thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
That does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation and have a nice day.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Nancy Bufalino.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Katie.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's third quarter 2011 earnings call.
Hopefully you've had an opportunity to review our press release which was released early this morning along with our financial supplement.
Both can be found on the CNA website at www.cna.com.
On the call this morning are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig's remarks about the quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday October 31 2011 and CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed again on CNA's website.
Now I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before Craig provides you with details of our operating and financial performance I would like to share with you some of the reasons I am so optimistic about many of the initiatives we have underway at CNA.
Everyone knows the third quarter was yet another quarter of significant natural catastrophe losses for the industry.
Despite that fact CNA delivered a combined ratio of 99.1% which included only 3.1 points of catastrophes.
Catastrophes are part of the business and we continue to believe we are effective in managing these exposures.
The operational strategies and people we put in place a few years ago are beginning to pay off.
We are delighted that our net premiums -- net written premiums grew 8% in the quarter 10% in Commercial and 6% in Specialty.
Exposure growth for the quarter was positive for both Commercial and Specialty.
We are seeing additional audit premiums in Commercial as opposed to return premiums a year ago.
Rates were slightly positive in Specialty for the second quarter in a row and Commercial rates continue their climb for the fourth consecutive quarter.
In addition to rate actions we continue to shed lower quality risks to improve our underwriting margins.
Favorable prior year development lowered our third quarter combined ratio by 5 points.
Our track record of favorable development now extends over 19 consecutive quarters.
Excluding the impacts of favorable reserve development in catastrophe losses our combined ratio improved to 101% in this year's third quarter from 103.7% in last year's comparable period.
This margin improvement was driven by the continued improvement in our net accident year noncat loss ratio in commercial lines down fully 3 points from a year ago to 69.8%.
The ratio for the first 9 months of 2011 was 70.1% 2 points below full year 2010.
With that I will now turn it over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
In the third quarter CNA's net operating income was $91 million and operating return on equity of 3.4%.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $0.34 per common share.
All the year-over-year comparisons are favorable given that last year's results included the impact of the asbestos and environmental pollution Loss Portfolio Transfer with National Indemnity Company.
The quarter's -- this quarter's earnings were significantly influenced by our limited partnership investment results and to a lesser extent catastrophe losses.
There's one other small item I would also like to bring to your attention related to our agreement to sell our 50% ownership share in First Insurance Company of Hawaii.
Because of the timing of the transaction which affects the tax treatment applied to those undistributed earnings we increased income tax expense by $22 million which reduced third quarter operating EPS by $0.08 per common share.
On anticipated closing in the fourth quarter we would expect to record a modest realized capital gain.
The quarter's results do reflect our continued progress towards our longer-term goals of improved margins scale earnings consistency and financial stability.
Third quarter net income was $75 million and included after-tax realized capital losses of $16 million.
The realized capital losses included impairment losses of $50 million after-tax and were driven by intent to sell decisions which are part of our ongoing portfolio management.
We continue to build on the strength of our balance sheet and improve our financial flexibility.
All key capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our target levels and our liquidity profile remains strong.
Book value per common share increased 2% from the end of the second quarter of 2011 to $43.85 per share.
The increase was driven by earnings and improvement in the market value of our investment portfolio.
At the end of the third quarter our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gains stood at approximately $2.6 billion an increase of approximately $750 million from the end of the second quarter.
Approximately 3/4 of the quarterly change in our unrealized gains was generated by the longer-term assets supporting our Life &amp; Group segment.
A substantial portion of these mass portfolio gains were offset by additional reserves also recognized in other comprehensive income.
Our common shareholders' equity excluding other comprehensive income was $10.9 billion or $40.56 per common share at September 30 2011 up slightly from the end of this year's second quarter.
Our statutory surplus was $9.8 billion as compared to $10.1 billion at the end of this year's second quarter.
The decrease was largely driven by $150 million repayment of the $1 billion surplus note originally issued in 2008.
This latest surplus note repayment leaves an outstanding balance of $250 million at the end of the third quarter.
Our primary insurance company continues to maintain approximately $1 billion of dividend capacity.
Cash and short-term investments held at the holding company level increased to slightly over $320 million.
The full $250 million of our credit facility also remains available to us.
In the third quarter of 2011 operating cash flow excluding trading activity improved to approximately $400 million.
Additionally we received approximately $600 million of cash principal repayments through paydowns bond calls and maturities.
We continue to sustain our disciplined reserving practices.
Our Property &amp; Casualty business segment benefited from $90 million of pretax favorable prior year development.
Favorable development in Commercial was driven by noncash property in accident years 2008 through 2010.
In Specialty favorable development was driven by medical professional liability in accident years 2008 and prior.
Net operating income during the third quarter included pretax net investment income of $394 million as compared to $581 million in the prior year period.
The decrease was primarily due to our limited partnership investments.
These investments produced third quarter pretax losses of $93 million in 2011 as compared to pretax income of $68 million in 2010.
Our LP losses were driven by negative equity market returns widening credit spreads and overall capital market volatility.
I would point out that while the loss is disappointing these investments continue to perform as we would expect and bring diversification to the overall portfolio with less volatility and higher absolute returns on equities.
As an aside these investments produced third quarter negative return of approximately 4% while the S&amp;P 500 total return was a negative 14%.
Year-to-date our LP investment return was approximately 1% as compared to a negative 9% for the S&amp;P 500.
Over the last 10 years our LP investments have produced an annualized return of approximately 8%.
This compares to 3% total returns for the S&amp;P 500.
Fixed maturity security income declined 3% as compared to the third quarter 2010 reflecting today's lower market yields.
With respect to our holdings you will notice that we have included information in our financial supplement outlining our European sovereign debt financial institution and overall exposure.
Securities in this category are in a net unrealized gain position with no significant concentration in countries with troubled economies.
We made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio sector allocations this quarter.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well-diversified liquid high-quality and aligned with our business objectives.
The current allocation of the asset is in line with our established longer-term targets.
The average credit quality of the fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
The fixed income assets which support our long-duration life-like liability had an effective duration of 11.4 years at quarter end essentially unchanged for the end of this year's second quarter and in line with portfolio targets.
We did act to further shorten the effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities to 4.0 years at quarter end down from 4.4 years at the end of this year's second quarter and 4.5 years at 2010 year end.
Our capital management activities included the previously mentioned agreement to sell our 50% ownership interest in First Insurance Company of Hawaii to Tokio Marine.
We expect the sale to close in the fourth quarter with proceeds of approximately $165 million.
Finally we announced a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.10 per share in line with the past 2 quarters.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thanks Craig.
All in all the third quarter was marked by continued improvement in the fundamentals of our core Property &amp; Casualty Operations.
The highlights were: net written premium growth of 8% driven by rate increases and new business in targeted customer segments as well as exposure growth and positive audit premiums; improvement in our Commercial segment's net accident year non-cat loss ratio driven by rate increases shedding lower quality risks and mixed shifting to more profitable business; continued attractive returns from our Specialty business; manageable catastrophe losses in a quarter of heavy industry-wide losses through the continued disciplined catastrophe management process; a steady run rate expense ratio with increased efficiencies funding our investments to drive growth and profit.
With that we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The first is on the change in price premium rates on the Commercial side up 2% you had mentioned I guess which is consistent with what you had been seeing earlier in the year.
Did you get any sense during the quarter if things progressively change hopefully got better during the quarter? Because others have mentioned that.
I'm wondering if you had seen that.
Yes.
I think Jay the first thing is if you look at the first quarter in Commercial rates were up 1.2% in the second quarter 1.8% and this quarter 2.4%.
So we see rates continuing to get stronger in Commercial.
All of our U.S.
businesses by line at positive rate in this quarter we had slightly negative rates in Canada and Europe.
But overall very solid and we think it's building developing whatever you want to describe that.
But we're pretty pleased with what's happening on with rates now.
Exposure has picked up as well so we had positive exposure.
So we report pure rate some companies report price.
So if you took the rate and exposure to it it's more near 3.5 points.
So we think it's moving in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess the question was September hopefully was better than what you saw in July let's say? Yes that would be true.
And August is kind of a low month.
It's not a big premium month.
So you have variability by month.
Research Division</strong> Right.
On the portfolio I'm wondering on the mortgage side if you're seeing prepayments play a role in how it shapes your portfolio at all.
Yes this is Richard Scott.
Let me respond to that.
Within the agency portfolio we made a decision relatively early in the game that we would avoid height[indiscernible] coupons.
And so the bulk of what we own at this point is 3.5 4 4.5 at most type coupons.
Secondly a lot of our agency exposure is actually in CMO forms where we have at least an added element of prepayment stability.
So if you look at prepayment rates they picked up a little bit generally across the industry with absolute rates being very low but we have not had a significant impact on the portfolio from that to date.
So Jay this is Craig.
If you're look at fixed income there is a small tick down as a result of -- that you're seen in fixed income as a result of prepayment but it's a pretty small number.
We'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
With you starting to show some premium growth wondering where we should be thinking about the expense ratio trending from 31.9% level of Q3? Is that a good run rate? Or are we still investing for growth? Or do we have the infrastructure where you want it? We'll try to answer those.
First of all we do believe we have the investments in place relative to growing our business so we don't expect to invest a lot more in that area number one.
Number two when you look at the expense ratio and I think Craig has said this on prior quarters you got to think of a little higher it's probably in the 33% range as the run rate.
But clearly as we keep our controllable expenses in line and we grow the business you will expect that the expense ratio naturally will go down.
So yes we believe -- we have never believed that we have an expense problem.
We always have believed that we had a growth problem.
And we think we are dealing with the growth problem in a measured way and we believe that over time the expense ratio will go down.
Okay.
You did a really good job of matching your portfolio on the life side to what's happened.
On the long-term care business there's still this sort of ongoing cash flow which is tough to match[indiscernible].
What does the current interest rate environment play to that business and...
Bob this is Craig.
I mean if you look at that at the life business in total you can see that we're adding about $200 million to invested assets a quarter.
And certainly the current investment environment produces more of a long-term threat than any kind of immediate threat so we're -- the portfolio is very well-matched and we're above the hurdles there [indiscernible] and the liabilities at present.
It's really more of a question for ourselves than others to answer about how long do you expect the current environment to persist.
But it's not an immediate issue.
So what's your current spread there? We haven't disclosed that Bob.
Okay.
But you said you're in a comfortable spread.
Was that the word or positive spread? How did you characterize it? I'd say comfortable.
We'll take our next question from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just going back to the discussion on pricing can you talk about new pricing versus renewal business pricing? And what is your expectation of margin improvement in both Specialty and Commercial going into 2012? Well no one can predict the future but clearly we are going to continue to push rates.
As I said earlier we've seen very good rate improvements in Commercial.
And Specialty now has 2 quarters of positive rates so we will continue to push on that.
When we get to pricing what I'd say first of all we're talking about the U.S.
And Specialty in the third quarter what we found was new business pricing was slightly stronger than our renewal pricing.
Now it varies by product but in the aggregate it was stronger.
So I think we're pretty pleased with what we're seeing in the Specialty area.
One thing to remember if you look at the D&amp;O business I think that has been a pretty tough road for every carrier out there.
But we have a very diverse Specialty business between all the professional services healthcare et cetera so we have an advantage there and we think overall we're able to get price stronger than our renewal book.
Once again in Commercial it does fluctuate.
We would say it's a little bit less for new.
And I mean a little bit.
But the other thing you have to look at is the quality of the new business that we're bringing in is far better than the old renewal book that I inherited a few years ago.
So clearly you cannot make an exact comparison because we have changed the mix.
We have changed the customer segments.
We've done a lot to re-profile the book in Commercial so I'm not concerned that the pricing might be a little bit less than the renewal book.
The renewal book needs more rates.
But the new business that we're bringing on we believe we're bringing on at better pricing better terms and conditions.
All right that's actually helpful.
Just on the flip side on the capital management issue in terms of capital allocation and excess capital I know we've talked about a special dividend in the past.
And at that time you had said that that's a fourth quarter discussion topic.
I'm just wondering where do we stand on that discussion now and does the change in the market condition -- the rates we're getting now is it more likely now that you might deploy the capital? Or are we still talking about revisiting the special dividend question later on? Well Amit this is Craig.
I'd say first I'll just remind you that we don't comment on future capital actions on the call until we make a decision.
Second all those capital discussions that we've had in the past on these calls whether they're increasing and I do this kind of in order of preference here increasing the common shareholder dividend whether it's considered a special dividend.
Although I think we said on previous calls is that one-time special dividend we didn't think has that significant of an impact.
So it has a lesser importance to increasing the common shareholder dividend.
I know we talked about buying back shares and why we didn't think that was a realistic option given the float and the ownership.
We still continue to look at things we might do  with the runoff businesses.
And of course we have strategic options with potential acquisitions that might help scale strategic bolt-on that might help scale.
So at the moment all those things are open to us and at the moment we feel happy to have them remain open.
And I think then the other thing is to just reemphasize that we're really more focused on improving the numerator than anything.
So what's most important is improving the earnings in the Property &amp; Casualty business and acting to continue to mitigate it if not eliminate the losses from the Life &amp; Group runoff.
As I'm sure you can appreciate all those things then would give us more confidence to act on all the capital options.
Amit this is Tom.
I'd just say that Craig gave you a very thorough response to your question.
The good news here is we have many more options today than we had a few years ago so we will be judicious about what we choose to do.
And quite honestly as Craig said we have been focused on getting the P&amp;C operational piece in an improvement mode so it's great to have options.
And we'll choose some of those options at the right time.
Got it.
And just one other numbers question.
On Page 11 of your supplement in the prior year development section can you remind us why the prior year premium development number is so high compared to past quarter? It's really a reevaluation in the Specialty business this quarter of the reserves.
They were associated with some of scale business in the medical liability product.
And this is a one-time? Okay that's very helpful.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take another question from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
First question today.
I actually have a question and a comment.
What renewal policy retention is due for Commercial and Specialty this quarter as compared to the preceding quarter? And I had a comment.
In Commercial the retention was 78.6% compared to the third quarter of 2010 it was 80.9%.
We are pleased with that.
We will even continue to sacrifice retention to get more rates.
So the number going down to us suggests we're pushing rate harder and the numbers support that.
If you look at Specialty third quarter the third quarter basically it's flat 86% this year in the third quarter 86.3% last year's third quarter.
How about compared to the second quarter this year? I'm sorry I don't have it on my fingertips.
Yes.
Second quarter Commercial was 78.8%.
This quarter 78.6%.
And Specialty was 85.9% in the prior quarter 86% this quarter.
And my comment is I think that the -- just as a comment.
You get what you pay for.
I think the valuation on the stock [indiscernible] multiple is  it's fairly pathetic.
And I think given the capital position of the company that you should ignore the significance of the float and the magnitude of the valuation discount is just too severe to prioritize the magnitude of the float.
And I guess I would just say the valuation discount is too severe given the progress that's been made with this company and the caliber of management for you to ignore a more aggressive capital action with respect to buying back your stock.
It's just too compelling.
We'll take a follow-up from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just a set of cleanup questions.
First of all can you talk about the DAC adjustment if any you should expect going into 2012? You shouldn't expect anything significant.
And when you see the Q you'll see that we actually do have some disclosure there.
So we haven't completed our work.
But we would expect when we do conclude that we would adopt it retrospectively.
And the one-time charge to equity would be something in the $50 million to $85 million after-tax so $0.20 to $0.30 a share.
Got it.
That's helpful.
And the only other question is just on the broader discussion on LPs and investment income.
Is there any lag? Or just based on the market rally or I guess the turnaround we have seen does the this $93 million does a part of it reverse? Or is there any lag in the reporting of LP investments? No I think what you should expect and what we said in the past is that our LPs our alternative investments are largely hedge funds and they largely reflect current market value.
So something like 85% of those investments are on a 1-month or less lag.
So that means that the third quarter's results that $93 million loss reflects the third quarter market.
And the fourth quarter likewise ought to reflect the fourth quarter market.
So we would expect some bounce-back given the current environment.
But this is early on all right before we get there.
So I think I'd refrain from speculating.
But it is important to note that they're very much on a current reporting.
Basis.
Okay that's all.
And just one other thing was there any reinsurance adjustment? Or did you renew your reinsurance treaty in Q3? No.
Our next big treaty is a cat which is in the fourth quarter.
I think maybe what you're seeing which is definitely helping the growth in commercial lines is that you recall that we said one of the big improvements we made was to property underwriting when Tom got here.
Well that's also improved our ability to reduce our cost of reinsurance on property which has pretty meaningful impact to net written premium this quarter.
So we're getting the benefit of those reduced reinsurance costs.
And your treaty renews in Q4.
Is that what you said? I'm sorry say that again Amit? The reinsurance treaty it renews in Q4? January 1.
With no additional questions in the queue that does conclude CNA Financial's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
We appreciate your participation.
Thank you.
Good day everyone and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Full 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Nancy Bufalino.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Dana.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2011 fourth quarter and full year financial results.
With us this morning are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig's remarks about the quarter and annual results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday February 6 2012.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
Now I'll turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
Before Craig reviews our financial results I would like to share a few highlights of the quarter and the year.
CNA's 2011 net operating income was $614 million as compared to $660 million in 2010.
Our operating results were influenced by lower net investment income a higher level of catastrophes and reserve charges in our Life &amp; Group runoff businesses.
Craig will provide more detail in his remarks.
We continued to be pleased and encouraged by our progress on improved underwriting profitability and premium growth in our core property casualty businesses.
In Specialty we continued to produce superior underwriting results with combined ratios of 77.8 in the fourth quarter and 89.9 for the year.
In Commercial we achieved more than 3 points of combined ratio improvement before the effect of catastrophes and development.
While there's more work to do on our underwriting margins we are encouraged by favorable rate trends and premium growth across both of our Property Casualty segments.
In Specialty rates increased 1% in the fourth quarter.
Commercial rates continued to decline reaching 3% in the fourth quarter with some lines clearly exceeding that level.
Retention was solid in both segments throughout the year.
We are pleased that the market is accepting rate increases after a long period of negative rates.
Our Property &amp; Casualty combined ratio continued to benefit from favorable prior year development 7 points in 2011 and 10.6 points in 2010.
We are also pleased to note that in the year of significant natural catastrophe losses for the industry CNA's combined ratio included only 3.7 points from catastrophes which reflects our disciplined cat management strategies.
Excluding the impacts of reserve development and catastrophe losses our full year combined ratio improved 1.7 points to 101.7 from 103.4.
This improvement was driven by a decrease of nearly 2 points in Commercial's non-cat accident year loss ratio.
Property &amp; Casualty net written premiums grew 5% in 2011 7% in Specialty and 4% in Commercial.
2011 is the first year we have grown in both segments since 2006.
Beyond the progress in our Property Casualty business we took action on a number of fronts to improve our earnings power financial stability and shareholder value.
We completed the acquisition of a minority shares of CNA's Surety increasing the scale of our profitable Specialty business.
We sold our 50% ownership interest in First Insurance Company of Hawaii continuing our efforts to simplify our organization and focus on core businesses.
Finally we increased our quarterly dividend to $0.15 from $0.10 per common share.
With that I'll now turn it over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter CNA's net operating income was $191 million and operating return on equity of 7%.
Operating income available to the common shareholders was $0.71 per common share.
Period-over-period comparisons were unfavorable primarily as a result of the reserve charges in our runoff Life &amp; Group business and lower net investment income.
As you heard from Tom we are encouraged by the momentum of our core P&amp;C business.
The results there reflect our focus on improved margins scale and financial stability.
We continue to sustain our disciplined reserving practices.
In the fourth quarter our core P&amp;C businesses benefited from $250 million of pretax favorable prior year loss development.
We now have had 20 consecutive quarters of favorable prior year reserve development.
The major drivers of the favorable development in the fourth quarter were as follows: We recognized favorable development in our Commercial segment generalized liability lines both primarily and umbrella for accident years 2007 and prior driven by improved claim outcomes and lower claim frequency.
Specialty segment recognized favorable development in medical professional liability D&amp;O E&amp;O and Surety in accident years 2008 and prior.
This favorable development was primarily driven by favorable large claim outcomes as well as lower large loss frequency.
All of these reserving decisions we're based on analyses completed in the fourth quarter.
We also completed our annual fourth quarter review of GAAP reserve adequacy for the runoff Life &amp; Group business line.
We made 2 adjustments to our reserves as an outcome of that review.
In our payout annuity business line which consists of single premium group and structured settlement annuity we recorded $115 million after-tax increase to reserves primarily to unlock actuarial assumptions which have now been revised through current best estimates.
The 2 main drivers of the increase were our estimates of future mortality improvement as well as the impact of the continued low interest rate environment.
One other important matter to note is these charges were GAAP only reserve increases and they did not have any statutory impact.
Total net GAAP reserves for payout annuities at year end were $2.7 billion.
In our Long-term Care business line we strengthened claim reserves by $33 million after tax.
Neither the deferred acquisition cost assets nor the active life reserves in the line needed adjustment at the present time based on our current best estimate assumptions.
However our estimates at the level of GAAP margin remaining in the active life reserves was reduced again largely because of lower mortality and interest rates.
This margin estimate reduction did have a follow-on negative effect on book value per share which I will discuss further in a minute.
Total net GAAP reserves for long-term care at year end were approximately $8 billion.
These reserve increases were the primary drivers of the $157 million net operating loss from the Life &amp; Group segment in the fourth quarter.
We've added a new page in our financial supplement that provides a summary of net reserves by the major businesses of our Life &amp; Group Non-Core segment.
In addition our 10-K will include new disclosures quantifying the estimated impact of hypothetical changes in key assumptions for both the payout annuity and long-term care blocks of business.
Overall we continue to build on our financial strength and stability.
All our capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our target levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
Book value per common share at year end was $42.92 a 2% decrease from the end of the third quarter driven by adjustments for unfunded pension liabilities and shadow reserve adjustments related to our Life &amp; Group business.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $2.6 billion at year end 2011 a slight increase from the end of the third quarter.
While net unrealized gains did not change significantly at the fourth quarter the after-tax amount of Life &amp; Group related shadow reserve adjustments increased approximately $265 million in the quarter.
As discussed last quarter net unrealized gains on the longer-term assets supporting our Life &amp; Group liabilities were mostly offset by shadow adjustments that reduced debt or increased reserves with the offset reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income.
The quarterly change was largely driven by the reduction of longer-term care margins that I mentioned earlier.
We will adopt the new accounting guidance on deferred acquisition costs as of January 1 2012.
We currently estimated this change in accounting will reduce book value by approximately $7 million or $0.26 per common share.
Our common shareholders’ equity excluding AOCI was $11.1 billion or $41.17 per common share up 4% for the year.
Our statutory surplus at year end was $9.9 billion.
We did not make any repayments on the surplus notes this quarter.
The outstanding balance on the note remains $250 million at year end 2011.
Our primary insurance operating company continues to maintain approximately $1 billion of dividend capacity.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $290 million at year end and the full $250 million of our credit facility also remains available to us.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 operating cash flow excluding trading activity improved to approximately $900 million.
Additionally we received approximately $600 million of cash principal repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities.
Net investment income was $523 million pretax in the fourth quarter as compared to $624 million in the prior year period.
The decrease was primarily due to our limited partnership investments which produced fourth quarter pretax income of $16 million in 2011 as compared to $113 million in 2010.
For the year pretax LP income was $48 million as compared to $249 million in 2010.
These investments produced the fourth quarter return of slightly under 1%.
On a full year basis our LP investment return was approximately 2.1% on par with the S&amp;P 500.
Net investment income from fixed maturity securities declined 1% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 reflecting today's lower market yields.
We made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio sector allocation this quarter.
The investment-grade corporate bonds sector continues to have the largest allocation of invested assets.
Small increases in the allocation to the U.S.
Treasury and municipals were offset by reductions in below investment-grade corporate bonds and non-agency mortgage securities.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well-diversified liquid high-quality and aligned with our business objectives.
The current allocation of assets is in line with our established longer term target.
The average credit quality of the fixed maturity portfolio will remain at A.
Fixed income assets which support our long-duration of lifelike liabilities had an effective duration of 11.5 years at year end up from 11.4 years at the end of this year's third quarter and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which supports our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 3.9 years at year end down from 4.0 years at the end of this year's third quarter.
The increase in our common stock dividend reflects our measured approach to capital management.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thanks Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to close with some observations.
A year ago at this time we said we would continue to focus on underwriting and pricing discipline while continuing to build the balance sheet.
Our progress on these priorities is evident on many fronts.
Margin improvement across the portfolio driven by more than 3 points of combined ratio improvement in Commercial before catastrophes and development.
Positive rate and solid retention across our Property Casualty businesses.
Net written premium growth of 5% favorable prior-year loss development for our fifth straight year improvement in our capital position reflected in a 4% increase in common shareholders equity excluding AOCI.
The acquisition of the minority shares of CNA Surety and the sale of our 50% ownership interest in First Insurance Company of Hawaii.
Lastly a $0.05 said per common share increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.15.
Looking ahead we expect that market conditions will be similar to the past few years with no letup in the competition for good business.
We also expect overall rates to continue to rise.
Clearly the most significant increases will be in lines affected by catastrophes as well as in workers compensation.
Although Specialty rates have begun to improve they have a long way to go.
At CNA we will continue to focus on the fundamentals which we believe will drive improved earnings and shareholder value in 2012 and beyond.
Now we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Just a question on the capital.
You've had good underlying trends in P&amp;C.
You also raised the dividend which is a good first step.
But if I look at your premium to surplus it's at a much lower level than others and the under pled capital pressures ROEs compared to other commercial players.
I'm wondering what specific steps on your capital do you anticipate to get the ROEs to let's say high single digits or even low double digits? I'm not sure I'm following the question Amit.
Are you asking what the next steps will be? Yes to get the ROEs to go up further.
I'm talking about the undeployed capital versus other larger commercial players.
Well we've been asking your question answering it exactly but I think that we've been pretty consistent in both our answer and our behavior relative to capital that we've taken in a very measured approach although we have been active.
We used excess capital to buy a minority share of the Surety.
We sold our 50 percentage interest in the Hawaiian company to further simplify the place.
We established or reestablished the common shareholder dividend a year ago.
We just raised it 50% this quarter.
And like when we talk at the board level and in the management among the things we like to be that we're really focused on the capital side.
It's just creating our company that is known for creating a common shareholder dividend that's sustainable and consistently increasing.
So that's really been the focus and really the extent of the discussion on the capital side.
I guess there is no near-term thought process that they should try to get the ROEs higher.
That's what I'm trying to get to if you look at Travelers or Chubb.
Is there some sort of a comparative thought process which is saying that we do have this undeployed capacity? Maybe we should look at acquisitions special dividend or things of that nature.
Or is it more about let's just fix the balance sheet.
Let's keep on slowly yet incrementally improving the operation.
Is that what the thought process is? I would say this Amit we look at everything.
We also believe timing is everything relative to what you try to achieve when you try to achieve it.
But we have a clear focus on improving the underwriting results improving the loss ratio improving the returns on the P&amp;C business in a low investment yield environment.
So clearly this is about improving our margins and creating better returns that way.
If you look at our ROE you're correct we're behind some of the other competitors that we see in the market.
But I can at least -- as I read the data as their combined ratios take some hits their returned ROEs are going down as well.
So it's about underwriting margins these days and we've got to get that fixed.
That's our priority.
But we look at everything and if there's something out there that makes sense we'll do it.
But at the same time remember 1 1.5 years ago we had no dividend.
So that's the start and we'll keep looking at other opportunities.
And is there a specific ROE target which you have? Well clearly in this environment where rates have been pressured it would be hard to deliver those kind of returns.
However we believe as the rate environment improves and we improve our underwriting margins our ROE will eventually start moving up.
Into the double digit range? I'd love to see that happen.
Okay.
I guess just one more question then I will re-queue.
Can you just talk about -- you talked about pricing.
You talked about margin.
Maybe just talk about the loss cost trends.
I'm looking for some sort of specific numbers.
Are you seeing loss cost go up by 3% or 4% in Specialty or Commercial? Maybe just expand on the difference between pricing versus loss cost point of view.
Yes.
What I would say is on an overall basis we look at loss cost running anywhere from 2% to 4% depending on the line of business or industry segment.
We would believe that we are getting in the fourth quarter 3 points of rate in Commercial and that is exceeding our loss cost trends in Commercial.
In Specialty we're at about 1% rate.
We are lagging on loss cost trends in Specialty.
But I'd say we're moving up.
If January has any indication of the future rates continue to improve.
So we think we're kind of on the cusp in Specialty and Commercial we think we're doing just fine.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Bob Glasspiegel with Langen McAlenney.
I think I was with you for most of the long-term care discussion Craig but I lost you at the end on the balance sheet.
Did you say that the $254 million balance sheet adjustment was for the lower margin or in long-term care or did I misunderstand the number? No.
And I think I said $265 million.
$265 million? Yes after tax was the -- were the increase in shadow reserves.
For long-term care you said primarily? Primarily.
Okay.
Do you have the pretax number? Is it 35%? You can use 35%.
Okay.
Was there any pension adjustment on your book value at year end? Yes.
We did adjust a minimum pension liability and that had a $211 million after tax impact on book value per share.
So about $0.78.
Okay.
Is there an interest rate number used for either of those 2 things so that they'll be helpful? Well I can tell you it's got to be -- you'll see it in the 10-K and we'll be -- in fact we'll be buying that in the next couple of weeks.
But the discount rate assumption we used on the benefit obligations for pension was 4.6%.
And on the long-term care just what sort of discount rates are we using now? Well we're using -- and you'll see this well in the K when you get it so you need to parse and I would say pay attention to the detail of the reserves and the makeup of the Life Group segment.
So the payout annuities and structured settlement reserves have discount rate based on 2012 cash flows of about 7.4% that will be then declining down about 5.5% over time.
And the discount rate in the long-term care is something around 6.4% 6.5%.
And not to belabor this I mean you're sort of matched on your asset and liability duration as I understand is that a fair statement? That's a fair statement.
But remember we attempt to match the best we can from the assets and liabilities.
But recall that the durations of these liabilities would exceed that asset duration we have about 11.5 years.
11.5 years versus what? Our asset duration is 11.5 and liability duration of payout annuities is a little over 10.
I think long-term care is 16.
Okay.
Getting to a more pleasant conversation.
Tom do you think that on the PC side rate increases now are keeping up with underlying loss cost? Where are underlying margins sort of heading trend line based on pricing? Yes.
On the Commercial side we think that our overall rate achievements is exceeding loss cost trends.
On Specialty we are just moving into positive territory on rate increases one point in the quarter.
So we're behind in Specialty but we like the momentum we're seeing.
January was both good on rates for Commercial and Specialty.
So we think that's going in the right direction.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take a follow-up from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Just sort of cleanup questions.
First of all can you talk about what sort of pressure do you expect on retentions going forward as you try to raise rates? Some other companies have talked about experiencing near-term pressure on retentions as they try to charge higher rates on the business.
I guess Amit you have to go back in 2009.
We started pushing rate increases in Commercial back in 2009.
So in '09 and '10 we did suffer some drop-off in retention particularly in Commercial not in Specialty.
But I would tell you this in the fourth quarter retention actually improved slightly.
So we've been at this awhile.
We've been re- profiling the book.
So I think the longer you are in this you get a stabilization of retention.
We're seeing that in Commercial.
We're going to continue to push hard not only in Commercial but Specialty for rate increases so it is foreseeable there may be a slight drop off on the Specialty side relative to retention.
But we've had some quarters going back a year or 2 where the retention would have been 5 points less than what it is in the fourth quarter today.
So yes.
Got it.
That's good to know.
The second question is you talked about pricing in Q4.
I'm wondering what sort of prices did you see in the first 2 months of 2012? Well considering it's only early February I can only give you one month.
Then I won't give you an exact number.
But if we look at the month of December which was a good month for us on rate it was higher than November and October.
So we gained momentum in the month of December and January is higher than December.
Got it.
Okay.
And then final question on the reinsurance treaty.
I think there was a mention that the reinsurance cost sell.
Can you just expand on that? And I know that your regions treaty renews on 1/1.
Is it the same? Is it different? Did you pay less? Or did something change on that? Well first remember we had several treaties out there.
So is there anything specific you're looking for which treaty? Yes.
There was some discussion on the last call that one part of the treaty renewals on 1/1 and I don't have those notes with me but something that renew on 1/1.
Is that right? Yes.
This is Craig Amit.
And so we did renew our property cat treaty 1/1 and we renewed it on the same terms same coverage same retention and the prices were up slightly.
I'd say actually about something like -- and this is going forward in '12 -- about 9% some exposure and some rate.
But I think what you're referring to is in earlier calls we said that part of the increase in net written was lower reinsurance cost and that was really -- that was a function of the property for risk in the property cat last year in 2011.
We had lower cost as we improved the portfolio and as our results improved.
So that helps the net written which was growing at a faster rate than the gross written which is what we're trying to describe in some of the earlier conversations in the call.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Peter Seuss [ph] with Surveyor Capital.
Just a question on Commercial lines underwriting.
It looks like the accident year ex cat combined ratio or loss ratio I guess improved by a couple of points this year and I assume most of that is due to the re-underwriting of the book.
I'm just wondering if you could provide some color as to how much improvement remains from the re-underwriting initiative.
Four.
We continue to press.
We continue to improve our metrics in tools so that we can get more granular relative to pricing of any particular risk whether it be by industry segment or line.
But clearly we don't retain 100% of the book.
We retain roughly 80 high 70s.
So we're always churning the book looking for better business and we're pushing rates pretty hard.
The other thing is there's really very little exposure growth in Commercial these days.
It's less than 1 point which is a reflection of the economy still being fairly flat.
But you always underwrite the book or re-underwrite the book.
But we're making good progress and we're very pleased with the new business.
We're writing as going into the segments we really want to be in.
And the other thing is actually in the fourth quarter where we saw a lot of competition for new business our new business writings went down a little bit.
So the fact is we're only writing the business at the right price to bring it in the door the first time and then we're constantly looking to push rate once it's in the door.
Would you say that a lot of the low hanging fruit from the re-underwriting has been accomplished? Or can you continue to sustain these types of improvements going forward? Our expectation is we will continue to see these kinds of improvements over time.
Got it.
And then finally just on the expense ratio about 33% this year.
What kind of growth do you think you need in order to see improvements in that ratio? Yes.
I think kind of 6 points would be a good number to keep in mind.
But clearly you mentioned 33% we kind of look at it as being 33.5%.
It's been kind of bumpy for various one-time events.
But we need to grow the business 6% a year.
That would be a good number.
6% 8% would be helpful.
And of course keeping our controllable expenses pretty flat which we've done.
We've really done a good job on expense management from a controllable perspective.
So 6% to 8% would result in an improvement.
And do you think that that type of growth is achievable in this rate environment? Yes.
I think it's clearly achievable.
And we'll go next to Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
Craig you mentioned I think a $1 billion of dividend capacity I assume that's from the main underwriting annuity.
I was curious is that entity paying any ordinary dividends? Or is that just sort of a going forward capacity and you've not been pulling dividends on a regular basis ordinary dividends out on a regular basis? And also what are your thoughts about dividending the maximum amount of ordinary dividends or choosing not to? Well first Rob you're correct.
That's the dividend capacity -- Ron it's the dividend capacity in our operating company so kind of [indiscernible].
We have not been distributing dividends from the operating company to the holdco.
Over the past year we've been holdco.
Cash needs have been met more than met by repayment of the surplus notes that we've established.
We still have $250 million of the surplus notes so the uses for cash we have at holdco are debt service payments and common shareholders’ dividends outwards which as we look at it will be met by first by continued repayment of the surplus note and then likely later in the year we get to take some dividends from the operating company.
But there's no particular advantage for us that we see in taking surplus from the operating company and putting it -- holding it at holdco actually it might be a hurt to investment income that we increase the amount of short term assets.
I'm sorry the holder of the surplus note is that the holding company or is it...
That's the holding company.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
See you next time.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's  conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Marie Hotza of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Roxanne.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our first quarter 2012 financial results.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom's and Craig's remarks about the quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday April 30 2012.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
Now I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you Marie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Before Craig reviews our first quarter financial results I would like to share a few highlights.
We are pleased to report improved net operating income of $226 million up from $213 million in 2011.
The improvement in our first quarter results was driven by lower catastrophe losses and strong investment income.
First quarter net income improved to $250 million from $220 million in 2011.
Our Specialty business continues to deliver solid underwriting results with a first quarter combined ratio of 97.3%.
We are pleased by Specialty's 4% growth which was driven by improved rate and solid retention as well as the new to loss business ratio of 1.5:1.
Rates in Specialty increased 3% with retention holding steady at 87%.
Specialty hit ratios were down 1% reflecting our continuing focus on selective underwriting increase in rates and disciplined new business pricing.
In fact new business pricing is stronger than on our renewals.
In Commercial our first quarter combined ratio was 106.2% an improvement of nearly 2 points over the prior year period due to lower catastrophe losses.
Commercials non-cat accident year loss ratio improved modestly from 2011 full-year results a reflection of ongoing improvements in both earned rate and risk selection.
Commercial's combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 105.4% up 2.8 points from the prior year period.
The unfavorable period-over-period comparison is due to a large insurance receivable recovery in the 2011 period which significantly decreased the expense ratio.
As with Specialty we are encouraged by Commercial's rate increases and premium growth.
Commercial rates increased 5% with renewal retention down 1 point to 78%.
The rate gains were broad-based with some lines achieving substantially higher rate gains.
As we have said on previous calls we are willing to accept lower retention to improve our margins and are pleased with the trade-off as well as the differentiated mix.
We have now had positive rate increases for 6 consecutive quarters in Commercial.
In addition rate increases accelerated over the course of the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of the sale of First Insurance Company of Hawaii in last year's fourth quarter Commercial net written premiums grew 6%.
Commercial new business was strong with a new to loss ratio of 1.3:1 our pricing on new business is consistent with our renewal pricing.
Commercial's first quarter submission activity increased 13%.
Hit ratios increased 1% overall in Commercial.
We believe this is indicative of improved appetite clarity with our agents and brokers.
Last week we were delighted when the shareholders of Hardy Underwriting Bermuda approved our proposed acquisition of Hardy.
We expect the transaction to close by the end of the second quarter subject to regulatory approvals.
Acquiring Hardy brings us deep expertise in specialized markets.
We will also be gaining a proven management team whose underwriting philosophy is similar to ours.
We are very pleased that Hardy's senior leadership will continue to manage Hardy's operations.
Craig will have a few more comments about Hardy in his remarks.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
We had a solid first quarter from a financial and operating perspective.
Earnings improved our core P&amp;C business demonstrated steady progress and we moved ahead on important acquisitions.
First quarter net operating income was $226 million an operating return on equity of 8.1%.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $0.84 per share.
Period-over-period comparisons were favorable primarily as a result of lower catastrophe losses and increased investment income.
We're encouraged by the improved rate and the continued net written premium growth trend in our core P&amp;C businesses.
We continue to emphasize specialized expertise in underwriting claim and risk control which we believe are the keys to profitable growth.
As you heard from Tom we are excited to be moving forward with our proposed acquisition of Hardy.
The addition of Hardy will provide an important expansion of our geographic and product reach including access to the $35 billion Lloyd's marketplace.
Hardy brings us deep expertise in certain chosen market and product segments which aligns very well with our specialized approach to underwriting.
Hardy also brings diversification in terms of both distribution and product.
Their 2011 gross premiums of approximately $430 million were predominantly short tail lines which will complement CNA's casualty driven book.
Overall the proposed acquisition will provide a solid platform for CNA's future international growth and an attractive opportunity for CNA to deploy capital.
First quarter results of our core P&amp;C businesses continue to reflect our sustained disciplined reserving practices.
We had a modest amount of favorable prior year loss development on par with last year's first quarter.
First quarter results from our Non-Core Life &amp; Group and corporate segment were consistent with the prior year period and the longer-term trend.
CNA continues to build on financial strength and stability.
All our capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our target levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
Book value per common share increased to $44.48 up 4% from year end reflecting first quarter earnings and an improvement in our investment portfolio net unrealized gains position.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gains stood at approximately $3 billion at quarter end an increase of approximately $400 million from year end 2011.
Our common shareholder's equity excluding other comprehensive income was $11.2 billion or $41.64 per common share up approximately 2% from year end 2011.
As previously announced we adopted the new accounting guidance on deferred acquisition cost.
The application of this new accounting change reduced book value by $69 million or $0.26 per common share.
Our statutory surplus increased to $10 billion at quarter end up from $9.9 billion at prior year end.
During the quarter our primary insurance operating company made a $100 million repayment on a surplus note issued in 2008 as well as declared and paid a $150 million dividend.
Those funds were earmarked to fund the Hardy acquisition.
The outstanding balance on the surplus note is now $150 million.
We continued to maintain approximately $850 million of dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $270 million at quarter end.
We continued to target cash at the holding company equal to about 1 year of our looking-forward corporate dividend and debt obligation.
Our liquidity profile also includes a new $250 million 4-year revolving credit facility finalized in April.
This credit arrangement replaced an existing facility of the same amount that was scheduled to expire in the third quarter.
In the first quarter of 2012 operating cash flow improved to approximately $300 million.
Additionally we received approximately $700 million of cash principal repayments through pay down bond calls and maturities.
Net investment income was $648 million pretax in the first quarter a 5% increase over the prior year period.
Our limited partnership investments which had a strong first quarter last year had an even stronger first quarter this year helped by both favorable equity market returns and the overall improvement in the credit markets.
In 2012 pretax income from these investments increased to $130 million a return of 5.8%.
Net investment income from fixed maturity securities increased to $516 million from $506 million.
This increase reflects a larger base of invested assets and favorable prepayment speed adjustment for asset-backed securities which more than offset the effect of lower market yields.
We made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio of sector allocations in this quarter.
The investment grade corporate bonds sector continues to have the largest allocation of invested assets.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high-quality and aligned with our business objectives.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
The fixed income assets which support our long-duration lifelike liabilities had an effective duration of 11.7 years at quarter end inline with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.2 years at quarter end.
With that I'll turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to close with some observations.
All in all we had a good first quarter.
Net operating income and net income improved 6% and 14% respectively.
Investment results were strong and our capital position continued to improve.
Positive rate momentum continued to build across our Specialty and Commercial businesses with solid retention.
Submission activity is strong while hit ratios reflected selected underwriting and disciplined new business pricing.
Net written premiums for our Property and Casualty businesses grew 5% excluding the impact of the sale of First Insurance Company of Hawaii.
Lastly Hardy's [ph] shareholders approved our proposed acquisition.
We are delighted to have completed another important step in the acquisition process.
Lastly we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15.
With that we'd be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
I guess let's start with a few questions on the Hardy acquisition.
I was looking at the premium mix and they have a property treaty book which has been more volatile and it has reported an underwriting loss for 2010 and 2011.
Can you talk about Hardy's business mix? You mentioned a premium base number of $430 million.
How much of that do you think you intend to renew going forward? I think I would start with probably a little bit different look.
First of all if you look at Hardy excluding the last 2 years where natural catastrophe has impacted the global insurance industry this is a highly profitable franchise.
So if you go back and you look at 2007 to 2010 most recent years combined ratio under 90% probably pretty close to 87%.
So the one segment where they encountered some difficulty was the property treaty business.
They have already scaled that back in their 2012 Lloyd's plan.
And as you know from other calls reinsurers are getting significant rate increases on property treaty business around the globe whether that's Japan or Australia Asia et cetera.
So they have identified weakness.
They are dealing with it and we're pretty confident that over time they will go back to historic profitability levels.
So the other businesses have all done very well through all the years all the recent years.
And if you go back Hardy's been around for 35 years.
So this is not a bunch of new underwriters getting together.
They have a very proven track record in all their segments albeit the property tax has got away from the industry the last 2 years.
So we're pretty pleased that they're dealing with it.
I agree with your comments regarding the rest of the book.
I'm just wondering it does introduce a new level of volatility in your results.
And are you okay with that? Amit remember 2 things here.
They had cut that debt to 50% of where they were so that's a significant cutback.
And #2 if you look at CNA 79% of our business is Casualty only 21% is Property.
They are much short -- more short-tail oriented or first-party oriented.
So we kind of like the blend.
We think [indiscernible] as you know this is a business of risk and reward and sometimes you take a little bit more risk in something like property tax reinsurance.
But I don't have to remind you if you look at CNA's catastrophe loss ratios over the last few years they are very low on a percentage basis compared to our competitors.
So it's introducing a little bit more I prefer to call it complexity.
But we think we've got a great group over there at Hardy and they will manage it effectively going forward along with the CNA portfolio that we manage here.
Got it.
And what's your view on their loss reserves? I mean when you look at their book did you walk away with a great degree of comfort? I would say we are comfortable.
But as -- when you look at an acquisition and you make an offer or you make a price you build in various assumptions as to loss reserves expected growth et cetera.
So we had built that all into our purchase price and we are very comfortable with what they're doing and we're okay.
Got it.
And I guess the next question is you mentioned in the opening comments that the senior leadership will remain.
Is there some sort of an earn-out period which will result in them sticking around for the next few years? Maybe just expand on that.
First of all they want to stick around.
They're a very close group very loyal.
We have built certain things into the transaction and going forward relative to compensation and benefits which we think will be helpful.
But as you also know in the London market there's something called garden leave.
So when people leave they don't go to work for 6 months or 1 year.
And we believe that these people want to stay on board and they'll be treated well compensated well.
And quite honestly their senior management stays in place which should give them great comfort that they're going to be managed and led by the same people that have managed and led them over time.
I mean are there any -- the reason why I'm asking is there have been several acquisitions of Lloyd's entities where the senior management has in fact walked away.
And I'm wondering if there is anything specific in the contracts which would prevent them from moving to another shop down the road.
Is there like a specific lock up or some sort of a specific requirement which would prevent them from moving on apart from the garden leaves.
They don't have any contracts.
We don't have any contracts here.
You either want to work for us or you want to work for Hardy.
That's the way we run the place.
So is it conceivable that somebody could leave? Yes that's true.
But I can tell you a lot of people have left CNA too and some of that has been desirable.
So the reality is we think we've got a good business.
They've been around for 35 years and we believe they're committed to continuing to build  their business.
And with our capital they have a lot of room to do things that they were unable to do before.
And that's what was attractive about them selling to us.
Got it.
Last question and I will requeue.
Can you talk about some of the expenses apart from the acquisition price associated with this deal near term and maybe expense benefit of some sort going forward.
Is there any expenses we should be thinking about regarding this deal apart from the deal deed price? Amit this is Craig.
So I assume you're asking what sort of earnings impact it might have within the year and [ph] longer and I would say so I would expect the -- nothing expecting nothing material either positive or negative in '12 because there will be transaction costs and integration costs and we're not really even certain yet exactly the close date and we haven't settled in on some purchase accounting adjustments.
So I think the best way to think of it nothing material one way or the other in '12 and it will be moderately accretive in '13.
We'll take our next question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick number's question I missed when you said it on the call.
The cash at the holding company level? It's $270 million.
Research Division</strong> And did that include the dividends that were just paid from the P&amp;C sub? Well it would have -- it does include it Jay.
But actually if you're trying to reconcile where the money that's been put aside for the Hardy acquisition that's actually shown in cash and short-term investments on the investment schedule.
So that $270 million does not include the $250 million earmark for Hardy.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's what I was trying to get at.
Okay next when I look at the statutory surplus when you break out the surplus from the Life company and runoff what would be the key differences in the statutory surplus of the Life business and the GAAP equity associated with that business as well? Well it would just be the -- when we cost new -- first remember that the Life company houses the majority of the payout annuity and structured settlement reserves.
But the Life company does not house the liability associated with long-term care.
So just keep that in mind as a starting point.
So other than -- with that starting point so you've got about $2.5 billion of structured settlements from institutional market and other reserves so $2.5 billion to $3 billion are reserves.
Then the key difference would just be the discount rate on the reserves which would be more conservative in the stat results than they would be in the GAAP results.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And do we know the amount of statutory surplus associated with the long-term care business? Is that just locked up in the P&amp;C stat surplus? Yes.
Research Division</strong> It's not a separate company is what I'm saying.
It is not a separate company correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I know in the past you have not given out sort of the GAAP equity associated with the runoff businesses.
Is that something you'd consider doing? We haven't at this point considered doing it.
I know we've been asked at it on several occasions.
But we have not disclosed that at this moment.
Research Division</strong> From our standpoint held from an analytical standpoint to really get a better sense -- because clearly your ROEs are a lot lower than your comps this a big reason why.
And even though we know it's an issue it's hard for us to quantify that issue.
Understood.
Research Division</strong> Just one other question.
Obviously you talked about the pricing trends and those are encouraging to see them moving in the right direction.
From a claims standpoint just I guess talk about some of the major lines of business and some of the claims trends you're seeing and specifically if there's been any changes in those trends.
Boy that's the big question.
Yes I would say overall...
Research Division</strong> Take out the big lines of business then.
Yes I would say overall when we look at claim costs they're going up 2% to 3%.
So when we look at written rate clearly higher in Commercial and we believe we're exceeding our loss cost trend in Commercial on an earned basis that's starting to come through.
On Specialty the written rate is pretty good it's up 3% but it hasn't earned-through.
Once again lost cost kind of 2% to 3%.
[indiscernible] I'd say frequency is down.
Severity is up a little bit in Commercial auto and workers comp.
Probably if there was 2 other areas where frequency might be up a little bit it's employment practices liability that doesn't appear to be something strictly occurring at CNA.
It seems to be a market issue.
And then we have attorney's errors and omissions that has kicked up.
And I think those 2 really relate to the economic lows they're just starting to come through.
So overall frequency down severity up a little bit in some places loss costs are pretty benign 2% to 3% and the rate is coming through.
So we don't think we're losing ground if that's what your question is.
We think we're gaining on it.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
I've got a few questions.
We've heard this from your peers as well at least a couple of times that new business rates are exceeding renewals.
Could you discuss that just a little bit more and help me understand or help us understand this phenomena which I sort of feel is from a -- brainwashed the other way for 7 years as market rates went down.
I can understand why you're perplexed.
Probably the easiest way to look at it is if you look at our Specialty business new business pricing is stronger than renewal pricing.
And I think that's just because we've been pretty insistent at writing new business at adequate rates so that we don't come back to customers and say "By the way we didn't charge you enough.
Let's get more this time." So we're trying to be tougher on new business pricing and really write the right kind of business.
And quite honestly if you look at our Specialty business whether it's HealthPro area or some of the Commercial program business where we have significant market share and competency we are able to deliver higher new business pricing because customers recognize as Craig mentioned earlier the claims skill the risk control skill and the underwriting knowledge.
So we think it's important that if you're not talking about a commodity and you're talking about a specialized approach from an underwriting and service standpoint you should be able to get better new business pricing.
Now what always happens is as your renewals go up the strength of your book goes up.
And therefore you don't want to dilute the strength of your book so you push new business pricing harder.
So that's what we're seeing in Specialty alright? If you go to Commercial our new business and renewal business is pretty comfortable pretty close.
But then of course the renewals are stronger.
Renewal rate increases are stronger in Commercial than they are in Specialty.
So you might say on the new business it's a longer bridge to cross because the renewal book is getting stronger and stronger.
So I think that's how you have to look at it.
And the new business whether it's Specialty or Commercial Tom is it -- how is the rate you're quoting -- and you told us that the win the new to loss was 1.3.
So it's quite attractive the ratio you're winning a lot of new business I guess.
What is the rate level on your new business compared to the legacy rate that the insured was paying prior? Do you have any insight into that or that's data you're not privy to? If you're asking about new business pricing relative to the renewal book it's about 2.5 points better.
No no.
I was asking sort of you have a health care account they're coming to you you're getting more than your like-for-like health care account.
That health care account is coming to CNA because their legacy carrier is pushing rate even more aggressively their legacy carrier is capital impaired like...
I have no idea what they're doing.
So we just we look at it from an individual risk selection perspective.
So when you look at it account by account you look at what the technical price is what  do you really need to generate your return.
And that's what we do.
And we're not to answer it another way we're not writing it on the cheek just to get it that's not our intention.
Okay.
And another business question.
It's sort of this question about lapping we will soon be lapping renewal rate increases so the companies will be -- the insureds will be facing their second renewal where the rate that carriers are asking to increase will be up further.
So maybe they went from minus 3 points 2 years ago to a renewal where they paid plus 1 or plus 2 for their insurance and then we're approaching a point where it looks like we're trending to then asking the insured to pay plus 3 plus 5 I don't know plus 7 depending upon obviously the type of coverage.
Is it easier as we -- to lap the second time a second increase than it was going from negative to positive? Or am I  overthinking it? A couple of points.
#1 yes the industry and CNA is getting rate increases today first quarter of 2012.
We've got -- we were basically flat in Specialty last year.
We were up a couple of points in Commercial.
So this hasn't been going on a long time let's be clear about that.#2 we have as an industry been giving back rates since about 2004 '05.
So customers have been getting rate decreases year after year.
So on a cumulative basis they have gotten significant rate increases -- or decreases.
You can go back and look at what's happened over those 6 7 years they've gotten major decreases compared to the 2% to 3% you're talking about today from an increase perspective.
So if you look over the cycle they are paying prices today that are more equivalent to the early 2000's.
So they've gotten a heck of a deal.
And if rates are going up by single digits they're still way ahead of the game over the last 6 7 8 years.
Did I answer your question? I think most agents and brokers are going out there and saying "Look the market isn't giving the product away anymore.
They want more and you've got a heck of a good deal for the last half dozen years.
So if you're happy with the service if you're happy with the product you want to stick with that company." Okay I'm going to move onto a couple of questions about Hardy.
Hardy recognizes sort of over its long history as you said really a top-tier performer albeit with 2 rough years.
Some would say they diversified and I presume in fact that they did and the mix included a growing amount of property cat and maybe international property cat.
And you mentioned a 50% reduction.
I assume you mean 50% reduction in property cat writings.
Would the number be more dramatic if -- the reduction would it be a much even more significant number if you said the people refer to it as international property cat sort of non-U.S.
non-peak zone? Well much of their loss activity was international non-U.S.
And that was true really of the industry.
Now I assume that they've paired that back because they had to prepare for continuing on their own balance sheet.
Now they're part of a much much larger group whose mix could support a meaningful amount candidly of volatility.
As it relates to their dialing back now inside of the CNA or soon to be inside the CNA umbrella might we go back the other way in that you'll actually welcome them reversing themselves sort of again on property cat exposures? Or you like this current level to start out at for the I don't know for the coming year or maybe next year? Okay.
First of all you have to remember that Hardy is part of the Lloyd's world and Lloyd's approves their business plan every year.
So whatever the strategy becomes for 2013 and beyond it would have to be approved by Lloyd's.
So that's #1.
#2 we're not going to tell you how we're going to manage our mix of business in Hardy today.
That would be premature.
The deal has not closed yet.
And clearly we continue to have ongoing discussions on how we build the Hardy brand as well as the CNA brand.
But don't expect any wild and crazy things coming out of Hardy or coming out of CNA.
Okay.
And just last question could you just remind us is it one syndicate? Is it more than one syndicate? Is it 100% corporate owned or not? And then I'll bow out.
Well it's just one syndicate.
But at the moment remember that they're trading on capital support from a couple of other venues.
So I think in '12 25% of the capital support is coming from third parties.
Via reinsurance? Yes essentially.
And so that sort of comes up for renewal at 1/1/13? Correct.
So it's 75% corporate capital and 25% third party capital? Is that generally right? Right.
We'll now take a follow-up from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Just a few follow-ups.
Just going back to Ron's question.
For Hardy the property treaty book 60% is international and 40% is U.S.
I didn't quite catch what proportion are you going to roll back by how much? When you were discussing.
.
.
We're not going to get into that right now.
You're asking us to talk about strategy.
And we're not going to talk about that right now.
Okay.
Maybe this might be an easier question.
In terms of the price paid for the acquisition the 1.5x tangible book I'm wondering what sort of ROEs did you factor in for Hardy going forward on a normalized basis if you take out '10 and '11.
Internally what do you think they can earn? I think we Amit we think they can earn some very attractive returns.
Remember it was -- we bought this strategically because it fit our specialized underwriting expertise.
We bought it because it brought a highly competent management team.
We bought it because it came with we thought a great group of core underwriters who were capable of producing superior returns.
And they've been as Tom said and even in the '10 and '11 years when they had a property cat treaty the treaty kind of blew up on them internationally if you look underneath it the other businesses are Aviation Marine Specialty the other segments they are -- they have including the other property Direct impact property business they had written they performed superiorly.
Superior to the market and superior to others.
So I think you can look at kind of those historical numbers and that's what -- we think our expectation was we were investing in and providing capital to a group that had -- was highly confident and has some very attractive prospects.
I mean would you say mid-teens returns? Is that what very attractive return is? Well Amit I think you can kind of calculate it yourself on looking at those kind of ratios they did in the past versus what we paid.
But we do not give earnings guidance.
No I was just wondering what your definition of "very attractive return" was.
Anyway just moving on.
I guess 1 or 2 cleanup questions.
We did not touch upon the reserve releases during the quarter maybe just refresh us and I apologize if I missed that in the opening comments did you mention what time period those releases came from? No I didn't.
And Specialty releases -- I mean they were pretty modest right? But special releases came from medical liability and the years were '08 and prior.
And in Commercial lines the releases were '01 and prior and related to actually workers comp whole [ph] year's workers comp.
Okay.
Final question just on the expense ratio.
I know you mentioned that the comparison was obviously skewed.
How should we think about the expense ratio from here? I mean does it stay at this level? Or I presume it will diminish going forward.
Maybe just expand on that.
Sure.
And I think we've said in the past there's really there's no asterisk in the expenses this quarter or the other ratios.
I think in the past we've kind of said you want to look at run rate expense ratio at the moment or P&amp;C overall at 33% 5% and that's pretty much exactly where we are this quarter.
And in Commercial lines 35% 5% which is where we are this quarter.
So there's nothing unusual to take out of those.
And to the extent we drive improved top line and rate and continue to manage those in a disciplined fashion we expect those to decline over time.
We'll take another follow-up from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
The first is when does the board consider the common dividend again? Well we talked about it -- we talk about capital management every quarter Jay.
Research Division</strong> So there's no not necessarily some seasonal time period with it so as discussed it could -- any board meeting this comes up every board meeting I should say this comes up? Yes.
You should think that every quarter as Craig said we talk about capital management and that includes shareholder dividends.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly with the sale of First Hawaii was there any notable seasonality in that business? And if you can just give us a kind of a run rate of net written premiums quarterly that that business was generating that would be helpful just for modeling purposes.
Sure.
That last -- it was pretty even Jay.
And lastly in the first quarter I think the net written was $35 million.
So second quarter last year was maybe a touch above that.
But it was in the -- you expect that it was $35 million and then it was like somewhere between $35 million and $38 million each of the next 2.
And then in the fourth quarter we sold it midway so it was small or probably below $20 million in the fourth quarter of '11 as far as comparisons.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Motamed I'll turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
That conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Marie Hotza of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Lea.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our second quarter 2012 financial results.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom's and Craig's remarks about the quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday July 30 2012.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call maybe accessed on CNA's website.
Now I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you Marie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I would like to start by saying that I am very encouraged by a number of positive trends that we believe are well established across our businesses.
We are pleased by the growth momentum across both our Property &amp; Casualty businesses.
Excluding the effects of last year's sale of First Insurance Company of Hawaii net written premiums increased 5% this quarter consistent with the level of increase in our first quarter of this year.
We are now achieving rate increases across all lines.
The aggregate 6% rate increase in the quarter was up from the 4% we reported in the first quarter and well above the 1% achieved in last year's second quarter.
The second quarter Property &amp; Casualty non-cat accident year loss ratio of 67.3% improved more than 2 points from last year's second quarter and was 1.5 points lower than where we ended 2011.
As you know catastrophe losses were again a big story for the industry in the second quarter.
While CNA incurred significant wind and thunderstorm losses of $68 million we believe that our 4.4 points of catastrophe losses reflect well on our disciplined approach to catastrophe management.
Our Specialty business continued to deliver solid underwriting results with a second quarter combined ratio of 94.4.
Specialty sustained its growth momentum with a 5% increase in second quarter net written premiums.
Specialty continues to build upon its positive rate trend.
A 5% increase in the second quarter was 2 points better than this year's first quarter while retention held steady at 86%.
Specialty's non-cat accident year loss ratio improved modestly this quarter to 67% as rate increases achieved over the last 5 quarters begin to earn into the results.
In Commercial our second quarter combined ratio was 108.1 this year.
Catastrophes represented 8 points of Commercial's combined ratio and this year's second quarter.
Excluding catastrophes and development Commercial's second quarter combined ratio improved to 102.9 from 107.6 last year.
We are pleased with Commercial's continued growth.
Excluding First Insurance Company of Hawaii net written premiums increased 5%.
Commercial continued a positive rate trend that began in late 2009.
The 7% rate increase in the second quarter represented a 2-point improvement over this year's first quarter.
Retention decreased slightly reflecting rate account period and other underwriting actions geared toward improving profitability.
Our efforts to improve Commercial's margins are reflected in the consistently improving non-cat accident year loss ratio which is now 3 points lower than second quarter 2011 and has sequentially improved more than 2.5 points from where we ended 2011.
With that I'll turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
The second quarter was marked by a meaningful progress toward our longer-term objectives.
Improved underwriting margins across our core P&amp;C businesses driven by both broad-based rate increases and underwriter risk selection as well as steady revenue growth were significant positives.
In July we completed the acquisition of Hardy Underwriting Bermuda.
The acquisition aligns well with our specialized approach to underwriting.
The integration work is now well underway and we remain excited about our prospects.
In addition we trust you saw Moody's recent announcement about CNA.
In addition to upgrading our senior unsecured credit rating Moody's affirmed our financial strength rating and revised the outlook on our financial strength ratings to positive from stable.
In the second quarter CNA's net operating income was $152 million and operating return on equity of 5.4%.
Our year-to-date operating ROE is now just under 7%.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $0.56 per share.
Period-over-period comparisons were favorable driven by improved accident year underwriting results in our core P&amp;C operations and lower losses in our runoff businesses.
Second quarter net income also improved from the prior year to $166 million or $0.62 per share.
P&amp;C operations produced net operating income of $163 million in the second quarter as compared to $151 million in the prior year period.
Lower catastrophe losses and improved non-cat accident year loss experience more than offset a decrease in investment income.
We have modest amount of favorable prior year development in the quarter on par with last year's second quarter.
Our Non-Core Life &amp; Group segment produced a small profit this quarter and a loss in the corporate segment narrowed.
The current quarter's results include several favorable items apart from which our runoff businesses continued to perform as expected.
CNA continues to build on a solid foundation of financial strength and stability.
Our capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our target levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
Book value per common share increased to $45.34 per share up 2% from the end of the first quarter.
The increase reflects earnings and improvement in our investment portfolio's net unrealized gains addition.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $3.5 billion at quarter end an increase of approximately $470 million from the end of the first quarter 2012.
Approximately $330 million of this quarterly change was generated by the longer-term assets supporting our Life &amp; Group segment.
The impact of those gains were offset by additional shadow reserve adjustments that were also reflected in other comprehensive income.
Our common shareholders equity excluding AOCI was $11.3 billion or $42.12 per common share up approximately 1% from the end of the first quarter.
Our statutory surplus stood at $10 billion at quarter end essentially unchanged from the end of the first quarter.
During the quarter our primary insurance operating company repaid the $150 million remaining balance on the surplus note issued in 2008.
We continue to maintain more than $800 million of dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $410 million at quarter end.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to about 1 year of our annual net corporate obligation.
We have a small amount of corporate debt $70 million that matures in August that we intend to retire.
Our liquidity profile also includes a $250 million 4-year revolving credit facility.
In the second quarter of 2012 operating cash flow excluding trading activity was approximately $340 million up slightly from this year's first quarter.
Additionally we received approximately $900 million of cash principal repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities.
Net investment income was $470 million pretax in the second quarter as compared to $517 million in the prior year period.
The decrease was driven by our limited partnership investments which produced second quarter pretax losses of $35 million in 2012 as compared to pretax income of $11 million in 2011.
As a point of reference our LP investments produced a negative return of approximately 1.4% in the; second quarter while the S&amp;P 500 total return was a negative 2.8%.
Year-to-date our LP investment return was approximately 4.2% as compared to 9.5% for the S&amp;P 500 total return.
Net investment income from our fixed maturity securities in the second quarter was $505 million pretax essentially flat with the prior year period as a higher level of invested assets offset decreased yields.
We made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio of sector allocations this quarter.
The investment grade corporate bond sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Fixed income assets which support our long-duration life-like liabilities at an effective duration of 11.7 years at quarter end unchanged from the prior quarter end and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 3.9 years at quarter end down from 4.2 years at the end of this year's first quarter.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to summarize our second quarter highlights.
Rate increases of 6% with increasing rate momentum across all lines; sustained growth of net written premiums at 5% excluding last year's sale of First Insurance Company of Hawaii; meaningful progress on margin improvement particularly in our Commercial segment; increased net operating and net income of $152 million and $166 million respectively; increased book value per share of $45.34 up 6% from year end 2011; lastly we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15.
With that we would be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll hear first from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
My first question relates -- this is probably a numbers question.
In the Life &amp; Group Non-Core you talked about the gain related to a benefit on Life settlement contract.
Did you quantify that in the opening remarks? Did I miss that? Or maybe just expand on that a bit more.
This is Craig Amit.
No I didn't mention the number but it was approximately $8 million after tax was the impact.
$8 million.
So I guess a related question would be how is the mortality shaping up in the third quarter in the sense that could there be something else like this in the third quarter too? Maybe just expand on the mortality trends in third quarter.
Well remember that that was a pay out of part of our Life settlement business.
We haven't talked about that very much.
It's relatively small pieces of runoff business and to give you some context I think we have about 500 lives still insured -- excuse me about -- more like 800 lives are in policies insured in that business and they pass up maybe about $500 million of face value of life insurance there.
So if you think about it most of the policies aren't representing more than $1 million per person.
Now the value of those obviously declines over time as people live.
And that's been pretty lumpy business running off so that's not anything particularly material in the future.
And the other things that affected us that business this quarter where we did see improved morbidity as well as improved persistency in the health business.
Now I wouldn't -- you'll also recall that in first quarter our morbidity trends were negative in health so I wouldn't really draw any conclusion from that.
They're pretty steady.
We are getting some very small modest improvements because of rate increases and some modest improvement in that businesses as a result of persistency improvements but very much on the margin.
Margin? Okay.
That's actually very helpful.
The second question relates to I guess the broader discussion on capital.
And this might be a question for Tom.
The Hardy acquisition is done now.
You've talked about the dividend the special dividend other options.
I guess what I'm trying to think is how do you view putting to use excess capital going forward? I mean do you say to yourself that pricing is getting better or let me focus on the core book? Or are you saying that while there are may be many other properties out there which I should be looking at.
Maybe just help us sort of elaborate on that a bit and sort of figure out where you stand on those issues.
I think Amit I'd start with my probably the first conference call that I had when I came to CNA was it's about improving margins in our ongoing operating company business.
So clearly we have been committed to that.
We have spent a lot of time energy human capital dollars to make us a better underwriting company and improve margins and over time continue to add to surplus.
So the reality is that's first and foremost our goal at the same time we have our eyes and ears open.
So we -- you mentioned Hardy so just to bring that up again from our perspective we thought that was a great opportunity that would help us grow our platform around the globe as well as improve profitability.
This is a company that's been our syndicate it's been out there for 35 years.
Historically combined ratios in the 80s which is better than CNA a specialized portfolio predominantly a short tail business unlike CNA which is much more casualty long-tail driven.
So we thought that was a great opportunity to once again contribute to scale and margins.
So and what we liked about it was what it's what we call bolt on just basically say "Okay you've got new owners and here are the expectations and go at it" obviously with lots of direction and control.
So clearly we look for bolt-ons if there was something like that we would do it.
With the remainder of CNA Surety a business that we do well and that's contributing to earnings.
So clearly that's our first and foremost objective.
Secondly we did reinstate the dividend and we have raised it over time.
So we will continue to look at that but no good dividend before it's time.
When we're ready we will be prepared to address that.
So other than that I think we're going to say Amit we're playing this pretty close to the vest and this is about building a better company over time.
And I agree.
Final question I'll requeue.
This goes back to the discussion on the pricing momentum.
Obviously you had good rates in this quarter.
There is this bigger debate that pricing is flattening.
If you look at some of the other carriers Q2 versus Q1 seemed to have flattened for some of them.
I'm curious as you look towards year end in the absence of let's say any hurricane losses for the industry or any other capital-depleting event how do you think about pricing for year end 2012? We continue to be optimistic about the pricing environment.
Quite honestly as we've said earlier in the call we are seeing momentum in some lines.
Some lines are getting double-digit increases others are in the high single digits some are in the low single digits.
But we are getting rate increases in every line and we see the momentum continuing.
And it has and you see how the written rate has turned into earned rate that it's now starting to help the underlying net accident year combined ratio x cat x development.
So from our standpoint we still are pushing out there.
We believe we can continue to push.
I'd say if you want to say it's flattening be careful what you wish upon yourself we are not wishing that on us.
We continue to push and we think July is any indication too early to tell but July was a very good month for us relative to rates.
So we are not prepared to accept flattening at this time.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move next to Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question more of a numbers question can you talk about the difference between new money yields as your portfolio is constructed now versus your book yields?  I just wanted to get a sense of what kind of the rollover risk here is.
This is Craig.
So the -- and you'll see the when you get the Q which we expect to file later -- tomorrow you'll see the maturity profile in the Q in terms of the time forward.
But we -- in the next just to give you some context in the next 1.5 years we've got a little over $4 billion that we would expect that would mature prepay and the reinvestment rates are anywhere 150 to 200 basis points lower than the book yield that's running off.
So now those numbers don't reflect the additional cash flow that's being reinvested which is about $2 billion a year as well.
So generally those are -- those are going to dip the headwind but not significant and manageable.
We do have the maturities starting at '14 and '15 a little higher rate more like $4 billion a year.
So it would begin to become more of a problem in the outer years.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
I guess related to that you obviously have a very sizable unrealized gain in the portfolio and some of that's in the runoff business but is your strategy regarding recognizing some of these gains changed or realizing some of these gains? I would say no.
I think in that effect that one of the things that we've said repeatedly is that we didn't get overly excited.
We had unrealized loss in the portfolio in '08 because we were highly unlikely to need to do anything there nor do we get overly excited about the gain in the portfolio now because that we'd be actually welcome rising interest rates as we reinvest the positive cash flows coming out of the business.
Now keep in mind that the gains particularly in the Life business that you'd have to be able to if you're going to sell them over we'll invest them at rates that were -- that didn't create a premium deficiency and given the current yield environment it's very hard to think about where would be a good point to put money at money to work and meet those expectations.
Research Division</strong> Yes I know.
that makes sense.
And if I can maybe one bigger picture question for Tom.
So you're clearly making some progress and your efforts and rates beginning to help you more and you're pushing for rate seemingly pretty hard I guess the question is as you look forward what is -- maybe really it's 2 questions Tom.
What are the key things on your list your management teams list of left to do and then secondly what do you see as your greatest risks today as you look at whether it's your income statement or your balance sheet? So what's left to do what are the greatest risks? Big picture stuff.
I would say things left to do we'd start with keep doing what we're doing stay focused on our strategy and our execution.
I think the other thing is we have certain segments of our business that we've identified called them customer segments which we think can be built out.
Some of them are pretty small compared to our competitors and we think there's a lot of opportunity there to grow out these segments.
What I can tell you is that we are pushing hard in these segments and what we're finding is in the Commercial space where we look at these segments new business is up 10% the retention is better we're just writing better business and more of it.
And I would say as we push harder in these segmented approaches we have a great opportunity to grow.
We've said for a long time that we don't think we have an expense ratio issue.
We think we have a scale issue.
So we will continue to grow in a very controlled way once again.
We kind of like where we are at 5%.
We think we could grow higher than that but we want to do that with a combination of rate increases and new business in the specific segments where we believe we can develop scale and profitability over time.
So I would say that's always -- or I should say that's kind of the opportunity as well as Hardy.
We think Hardy is going to give us some pretty good opportunities and specialties that currently we don't have that they have such as energy and aviation and a few other things.
So from our standpoint we see that as something that has to grow profitably over time.
As for risk we kind of look at the glass being half full rather than half empty.
So I would say you're always worried about what's going to happen on the investment returns standpoint I mean everybody has to deal with that.
But I don't think that's an issue.
That is a CNA issue.
I think that's relative to the insurance industry as a whole.
But other than that we see lots of upside.
We don't see a lot of downside.
Research Division</strong> And it sounds like that the run off business isn't presenting any looming risks if you will means you can be running off as expected.
It's been here for a while.
This business didn't show up last night.
So we've been managing it through the years we'll continue to manage it.
We will continue to look at options and/or solutions for it over time.
But as you know Jay timing is everything.
The right time is not today.
It will be sometime in the future but clearly we're managing that business more aggressively.
We're very pleased with some of the steps we're taking to do a better job in that area.
So we keep working on that waiting for our moment on the stage to do something.
[Operator Instructions] We'll hear next from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
And glad to see all the progress that's continuing on rate and retention holding and margins improving I mean most importantly.
I had a question about Hardy and I just wanted to ask on sort of the cat exposure front could you give us some metrics and figures as to what sort of additional cat exposure we're taking on? I don't know if you want to if you can or you're willing or if it's relevant to talk about sort of the incremental exposures for a 1 in 100 windstorms in a certain part of the world or a quake or what have you.
But I just sort of thinking ahead there'll be a day when there's a storm on the horizon or a quake happens or a storm hits and we're all going to be sort of wondering what the addition of Hardy to the portfolio means or doesn't mean.
But could you help us there please? This is Craig.
It does add some and we certainly considered that in the purchase and the due diligence.
But it doesn't add meaningfully to CNA's 1 in 100 or 1 in 250 numbers.
We're still well inside the tolerances we've established in the addition to Hardy which right now they still trade on this sort of 25% third-party capital.
But even after that you'll do at the end of '13.
At least at the moment and the way their portfolio is constructed it wouldn't add more than $50 million to our 1 in 100 cat loss so the volatilities are not meaningful for CNA.
So incremental $50 million and I assume that's the high number.
So what peril what sort of event and that's 1 in 100 Craig? Yes.
And what peril would that be? And can I assume that the other peril so if you'd -- what peril is that? Windstorm? North Atlantic windstorm? That's all.
All and any but most to us will be U.S.
wind.
[Operator Instructions] You have a follow-up from Mr.
Jay Cohen.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to see in the third quarter obviously you closed on Hardy.
Will there be any accounting adjustments that need to get reflected in the financials that are material in any way? Well I mean we're working through the purchase accounting adjustments now Jay.
And again there'll be some small enough kind of framework detailed in the Q when you see you it tomorrow.
And so we are finalizing that.
I think what I said last quarter and I'll say it again so we will begin reporting Hardy actually as a separate operating segment in the third quarter.
I wouldn't expect anything material one way or the other in terms of earnings from Hardy for the second half of this year.
And that's because of some of the purchase accounting adjustments related to Hardy in terms of the -- and that amortization and I would expect it to be modestly accretive to EPS starting in '13.
Also of course there are costs associated with the integration work on the IT integrated financial system side that will be under way or already well underway that will happen over the next 6 months and probably into the first half of '13.
Research Division</strong> It'll be a separate segment that you'll break it out separately from Specialty and the Commercial business.
That's our intention.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude today's presentation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Marie Hotza of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Drew.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our third quarter 2012 financial results.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom's and Craig's remarks about the quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday October 29 2012.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the financial supplements.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
Now I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you Marie.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
We reported net operating income of $216 million much improved over last year's third quarter and driven primarily by strong results from our limited partnership investments.
This quarter CNA's results include the Hardy group for the first time.
Hardy contributed significantly to our accident year loss ratio improvement.
The third quarter Property Casualty non-cat accident year loss ratio was 66.3% 1 point lower than this year's second quarter.
We continue to achieve meaningful rate increases across our Property Casualty business with retentions holding firm.
The 6% overall rate increase in the third quarter was broad-based and while consistent in the aggregate with the second quarter we did achieve improved rates across our Commercial segment.
Our Specialty business delivered solid underwriting results again for the third quarter combined ratio of 93.7%.
Specialty achieved a 5% rate increase in the third quarter.
Retention remained unchanged.
Specialty's non-cat accident year loss ratio was relatively flat as compared to earlier periods.
In the quarter Specialty net written premiums decreased 4% reflecting a lower level of new business as we tightened pricing and underwriting standards.
In Commercial our third quarter combined ratio was 106% which included 2.8 points from catastrophes.
Excluding catastrophes and development Commercial's third quarter combined ratio was 102.9%.
Our Commercial non-cat accident year loss ratio was 67.4% relatively consistent with this year's second quarter.
Commercial rate increases continued to rise.
8% rate increase in the third quarter was a 1-point improvement over the second quarter while retention also improved 1.79%.
Commercial's third quarter net written premiums decreased 3% for the quarter.
Before the impact of last year's fourth quarter sale of First Insurance Company of Hawaii Commercial grew 2% in the quarter.
Before turning it over to Craig I wanted to spend a moment on the Hardy group our newly acquired Lloyd's operation.
Hardy produced net operating income of $3 million on net written premium of $56 million.
Premiums were down approximately 17% reflecting their increased reliance on third-party capital and the reprofiling of Hardy's property treaty portfolio.
Hardy's combined ratio was 85.8%.
Excluding catastrophes and development the ratio was 94.7%.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
CNA had a solid third quarter from a financial perspective much improved level of earnings 4% book value per share growth and continued improvement in financial stability and flexibility.
CNA's third quarter net operating income was $216 million and operating return on equity of 7.5%.
Our year-to-date operating ROE was 7%.
Third quarter operating income available to common shareholders was $0.80 per share.
Period-over-period comparisons were favorable driven by improved results in our Property &amp; Casualty Operations segments.
Recorded net income also improved on the prior year to $221 million or $0.82 per share.
Our Property &amp; Casualty business produced net operating income of $264 million in the third quarter as compared to $130 million in the prior-year period.
The improvement was driven by strong limited partnership investment results improved accident year underwriting results and lower catastrophe losses.
We had modest amount of favorable prior year development in the quarter $35 million pretax or 2.6 points on the P&amp;C combined ratio.
This compares to $90 million pretax or 5 points on a combined ratio at last year's third quarter.
As you heard from Tom the Hardy group made a modest but meaningful contribution this quarter.
You should be aware that Hardy utilized third-party capital for the 2011 and 2012 years of account.
That reason the Hardy segment results exclude the external capital providers proportionate share of Syndicate 382's results.
The third-party capital percentages are 7.5% and 25% for the 2011 and 2012 years of account respectively.
The 2013 year of account CNA's results will include 100% of the Syndicate results.
As a result of the purchase accounting for the acquisition we recorded $81 million of finite lives intangible assets will be amortized over various lives up to 15 years.
Total amortization in the third quarter was $24 million of which $6 million was above normal run rate back amortization.
Our Non-Core Life &amp; Group segment produced a $22 million third quarter operating loss driven by unfavorable claim experience in our individual long term care business.
We continue to pursue rate increases on our long term care business and to evaluate the overall effectiveness of our run off operation.
As we've said before we are taking an active approach to managing all our Non-Core businesses as opposed to simply administering them.
We will conduct our annual review of livelihood[ph] reserves in the fourth quarter of 2012 consistent with prior years.
Our corporate segment primarily includes corporate expenses largely interest on corporate debt.
The $26 million third quarter operating loss was consistent with our expectation and included no significant unusual items.
CNA continues to build on a solid foundation of financial strength and stability.
Our capital adequacy[ph] metrics remain at or above our target levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
Book value per common share was $46.99 at the end of the third quarter an increase of 4% for the end of the second quarter.
The increase reflects earnings and improvement in our investment portfolio net unrealized gain positions.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gains that are approximately $4.4 billion at quarter end an increase of approximately $900 million from the end of the second quarter 2012.
Approximately $545 million of this quarterly change was generated by the longer-term assets reporting our Life &amp; Group segments.
The impact of those gains was largely offset by additional shadow reserve adjustments that were also reflected in other comprehensive income.
Our common shareholders equity excluding other comprehensive income was $11.5 billion or $42.80 per common share up approximately 2% from the end of the second quarter.
Our statutory surplus stood at approximately $10 billion at quarter end up modestly from the end of the second quarter.
We have nearly $700 million of dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level after having upstreamed a $150 million dividend in the third quarter.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $435 million at quarter end.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to about 1 year of our annual net corporate obligations.
We retired $70 million of corporate debt that matured in August.
In third quarter of 2012 operating cash flow excluding trading activity was approximately $340 million in line with this year's second quarter.
Additionally we received approximately $1.1 billion of cash principal repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities.
Debt investment income was $601 million pretax in the third quarter as compared to $394 million in the prior-year period.
The increase was driven by our limited partnership investments which produced third quarter pretax gains of $89 million in 2012 as compared to pretax losses of $93 million in 2011.
Our LP investments produced a return of approximately 4% in the third quarter.
Year-to-date our LP investment return was approximately 8.4%.
Net investment income from our fixed maturity securities in the third quarter was $507 million pretax a $13 million increase from the prior-year period.
Higher level of invested assets more than offset the effect of lower new money yields.
We made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio sector allocations this quarter.
The investment-grade corporate bonds sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
And overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high-quality and aligned with our business objectives.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Fixed income assets which support our long-duration lifelike liabilities had an effective duration of 11.4 years at quarter end a decrease from 11.7 at the end of this year's second quarter and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liability of 3.8 years at quarter end a slight decrease from 3.9 years at the end of the second quarter.
With that I'll turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to summarize our third quarter highlights.
Increased net operating and net income of $216 million and $221 million respectively a combined ratio of 99.7% in our core Property &amp; Casualty business rate increases of 8% in Commercial and 5% in Specialty.
1 point of improvement in the Property Casualty non-cat accident year loss ratio a combined ratio of 85.8% from the Hardy group our newly acquired Lloyd's operation.
Increased book value per share of $46.99 up 10% from year end 2011.
Lastly we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15.
With that we'd be glad to take your questions.
We'll take our first question from Amit Kumar.
Just quickly starting with the Hardy acquisition and I'm not sure if I missed this.
But on Page 11 if I look at the acquisition expense ratio why is that elevated? And would that normalize going forward? Or is that how we should think about the expense ratio for Hardy going forward? This is Craig Amit.
I think there's nothing unusual in the expenses for the quarter.
It was affected by the earned premium declines as I mentioned in my remarks.
Remember that Hardy was relying on third-party capital for the 2011 and '12 years of cap.
This year about 20% of the earnings or this quarter about 20% of the earnings went to those third-party capital providers.
A little bit the effect of that a little bit the effect of the decline and then we've changed the accounting and the reporting somewhat so that we really account for all the operating expenses at the Hardy group level in the underwriting and acquisition expenses which wouldn't be traditional for what they report in the past or what you usually see as Lloyd's.
But I think that is what you have to look at going forward at the moment.
Got it.
Since I guess once we gross up the earned premium those numbers will obviously fall.
Right.
Got it.
Then the second question is the discussion on pricing and maybe it's a 2-part question pricing and margins.
Pricing was -- it's still strong but I think it looks like it was relatively flat versus Q2.
And then I know we've talked about this in the past how you were ahead of the curve in terms of pricing increases for your book.
Maybe just talk about and this question is for Tom just talk about the sustainability.
Do you think these numbers start trending down as we go forward or you think that you'll keep on getting rate-on-rate into 2013? Well we're optimistic about getting rate in the fourth quarter and beyond.
I think the industry needs rate whether it's in the commercial sector and in particular in the Specialty segment.
We think there's a lot of rate to be had there.
It just hasn't followed the commercial space.
So we continue to be optimistic.
We did improve a bit in Commercial.
And when we looked at the individual lines of business most of them improved.
And we did have 2 that were double-digit and 1 that was right on the verge of double-digit.
So we are getting rate in the places that we think we need to get rates.
So we're pretty confident about that.
And Specialty we're getting rate there.
I think if you go back Amit in time we've been getting rate increases in Commercial now for 8 quarters in a row.
We've been getting rate increases in Specialty for 6 quarters in a row.
So the fact is even if you took that out a little longer in Commercial we were getting rates beyond 8 quarters.
We just -- 1 quarter we fell behind a little bit.
But we have been building this gradually over time and I think what the market is showing is nobody is being very aggressive in getting rate.
It's much more moderate and we believe that if it stays moderate we'll be able to continue to get rate increases.
But if you compare third quarter of '11 with third quarter of '12 Commercial's gone from 2% to 8%.
And if you look at Specialty basically slightly positive in the third quarter of '11 5 points today.
So it's been moving up.
I don't expect that it's going to move up a lot from where it is but there's certainly areas that will need more rate worker's comp being one and we'll see what this storm does to property rates and that would be not only monoline property but also the package business which has a property portion.
So we think there's some legs in this market.
That's helpful.
And then -- and I guess maybe the only other question and I'll reach you after this.
Can you talk about the contribution of new business in the lines and the pricing the new business is getting versus your renewal business? If we look at our Specialty business we believe that the new business is priced much stronger than the renewal business.
And quite honestly as I just said a moment ago we think the Specialty business needs rate increases.
So we'll continue to push in Specialty.
But the good news now is while we're writing on the new side is better priced in our renewal book and we are becoming more selective in Specialty.
And that's why you saw a drop off in their growth in the quarter because we really cut back on the new business that we were writing because there are some problems in employment practices for the industry and certain other professional liability lines.
So positive on Specialty.
Commercial it's pretty flat with the renewal business slightly negative.
But then we are getting more rate increases in Commercial.
So 8% is a pretty good number for us.
So we're going to keep pushing on that but we're not giving anything away.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Jay Cohen.
Research Division</strong> I guess several questions.
First is the review of the life insurance reserves which you do I guess every fourth quarter.
Is there anything in the macro environment this year that seems more adverse whether it's lower interest rates? In other words as you look at that -- the reserves this quarter should we be expecting a more likely charges given the macro environment? This is Craig Jay.
So I'd say not --  nothing really changed dramatically in the macro environment.
It certainly hasn't gotten better.
And I think that the 2 big drivers would be claims.
We have seen slight increase in claim activity this year.
This quarter was about $10 million more than we would have expected.
Last quarter was actually very light claim quarter.
First quarter was a bit heavy on the claim.
So right now it's tough to see if that's a trend or just some kind of random variability and outcomes so we're looking closely at that.
Although I say that October looks to be running closer to what the third quarter ran in terms of claim.
So that'll be a key decision to make and judgment to bake in what direction that's going in the future.
And then we'll have to wrestle with the low interest rate environment and make some estimate about how long we think that persists or doesn't persist.
So it's a pretty tough and difficult topics and if that's not much different it's just I would say all are a little or slightly worse than they were a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second question I guess really just given the storm activity going on right now as we speak could you just remind us what your cat program looks like? I would normally look it up but I don't have my files here and if you can give us that that'd be helpful.
Yes.
As we buy our retention in our cat is $300 million and we buy $600 million of protection over that $3 million.
Research Division</strong> Is that fully placed at $600 million? No.
The first $100 million layer is 50% placed and the rest is fully placed as I remember.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly when I look at Hardy -- when I look at the net to gross that difference that reflects I'm assuming the third-party capital as well as reinsurance purchases? Yes.
So I guess you've really got to make a couple of steps.
First the -- a portion of the third-party capital actually gets deducted from the gross before you even see it like 10%.
And then the other 50% is deducted from the gross in that.
And then they buy third-party reinsurance somewhere between 20% to 25% reduction of the gross.
Research Division</strong> Yielding that it goes away next year as you have it modeled now would be the third-party capital? That's correct.
And do remember though Jay that because that's a year of account on a basis that will kind of gradually change over the course of the next couple of years.
So as premiums are continued to be collected for the '11 and '12 years of the account it will only be the premiums on the '13 year of account and the earned premium on '13 that will be 100%.
So that will be a pretty gradual transition over the next couple of years.
Research Division</strong> So it has to be earned in.
Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly on Hardy again I'm sure you've talked about this before but I don't have notes in front of me.
The seasonality of that business how should we think about that? I think it's really more the property treaty that's a little more seasonal.
So -- and that business has been pretty significantly curtailed and we're in the process really of rebuilding and reprofiling that business.
So in the future you should expect that to kind of follow the seasonality you would see in any other kind of property treaty reinsurer.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we look at the third quarter gross premiums obviously some of that will get moved up because that gradually the third-party reinsurance goes away.
But is that a decent run rate for us to look at as far as modeling purposes going forward? I think that's a bit depressed in terms of the written but not significantly.
I think it's reasonable enough as a starting point.
And you have a better view of that when you see the fourth quarter year end I think.
And we'll take a follow-up question from Amit Kumar.
And just very quickly going back to the discussion on your cat program.
Can you remind us what your Hurricane Irene losses were? Is that number handy? Yes it's top of mind unfortunately.
So we reported $44 million of losses from Hurricane Irene.
Now this storm looks to be a bit broader based and slow moving so -- but...
And I guess maybe just expand on that and I'm sure you're getting some reports.
Do you have any view what Hurricane Sandy will look like? Or are you hearing anything from the people on ground? No.
Not really.
We won't get our really first model back[ph] until late this afternoon or tomorrow morning until we have a better sense of storm track from RMS and some others.
So really the only measures we have to look at is kind of our own judgment so ask like you were asking about.
So what was Irene or Irene's losses we know our market share is between 1/2 of 1% so depending on where the industry loss is maybe that's another little marker.
Those are pretty kind of I don't know how helpful those are necessarily but that's as about as far as we can take it at the moment.
That's very helpful.
And then what are the split in your Hurricane Irene loss between Commercial and Specialty? And can you remind us of that? It is almost all Commercial.
There's very little Specialty losses.
If you look back at the -- to see the Specialty cat losses over the -- in any of the number of the last years had been relatively modest and fairly insignificant -- and fairly insignificant.
So less than half a point.
I don't think it's been more than 1 point in any quarter.
And actually in our overall cat losses have been we think stacked up really well compared to the industry comparison.
Got it.
But I guess if the losses turn out to be a much bigger deal then definitely some of those will start flowing through Hardy right? Some do.
But as we said in earlier calls this P&amp;L impact of Hardy is not that significant.
Okay.
And the only other question I guess I had was and I know we talk about this every quarter and probably with the same answer.
But just in terms of the impending fiscal cliff any thoughts or any sort of revisitation on the possibility of a special dividend? We again appreciate you asking the question.
But as we said we made a practice of not talking about or telling what capital actions we might take future.
So we'll naturally look at everything.
We talk about it every quarter.
We'll discuss capital plans again at the end of the year after we look at the full year's earnings and earnings estimates.
And we consider our outlook for '13 and all those things we talked about in the past are certainly on the board as far as uses for capital.
But it's not off the table? Same answer as last quarter and the quarter before that.
You said it correctly right at the beginning of it.
We'll take our next question from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
Calling in from an undisclosed location on the storm centered East Coast.
I just had a question about loss picks in Commercial and maybe Specialty as well.
As rates declined in the last I don't know 5 6 years maybe '07 '08 '09 '10 and '11.
Just curious for those years how the loss picks holding up? And you want to know for '09 '10 '11? I think that we think about maybe starting with Commercial.
'09 actually has held up pretty well.
'10 and '11 what we've seen and you kind of see it in the reserve or views and reserve outcomes is that largely Property and General Liability lines have performed slightly better than we expected and auto and comp have been a little bit worse than we've even expected.
But those have been kind of on the margins.
I think that it was an example of comp over the last 2 -- for the last 2 years this quarter we added less than $20 million comp reserves.
In Specialty those picks have moved up because we've seen pretty significant increase of comps and frequency and employment practices liability in a number of professional liability lines that we think were generated by the economic prices and the outcomes on that.
So we've seen a pickup in frequency as an example in the lawyer's books.
If they move they move pretty modestly and on the margin.
I think you can kind of see those in the numbers they report over time.
And Craig you answered it by focusing on '09 '10 '11.
I asked for a broader window.
Did you focus on '09 '10 '11 because those are the ones that are really noteworthy? I thought you were asking '09 '10 '11 Ron.
But you wanted something larger than that? Well I was just curious.
Since you focused on '09 '10 '11 because of the miscommunication sorry anything noteworthy about '06 '07 and '08 where rates were declining but maybe they were still well more than adequate so it's less of an issue or...
Those have all continued to develop favorably.
Okay.
So '09 '10 '11 are really the ones worth noting.
And we have a follow-up question from Jay Cohen.
Research Division</strong> Yes just move I guess more towards the bigger picture view.
Can you talk about what your eventual ROE target is for the company? I think right now Jay in this kind of interest rate environment we'd like to do better than where we are today and the name of the game is improving the underwriting contributions that's key.
So I would say we're at I guess we're 7.5% this quarter.
In the near future we'd like to get close to 10%.
We think that would be reasonable all things considered.
But the underwriting side is going to have to contribute.
And Hardy has helped buying the rest of Surety.
It has been a good deal for us.
We're seeing improvement in Commercial.
We're tightening the hatches in Specialty.
Specialty had very good ROEs until recently.
So I think that's probably get the double digit before you declare you want to go off in the clouds.
So I think that's where we want to try to get to right now.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you can get to 10% without doing some sort of restructuring on the runoff business? Is that -- does that have to be part of it to get to that kind of ROE? I think if we can really get the underwriting stuff much improved I think we can get there.
Since you brought it up yes we're always thinking about these runoff businesses and what we can do and we came up with a solution on asbestos.
These things take a lot of time.
They take a lot of diligence.
We continue to look for solutions in that business.
But at the same time we're an underwriting company and we have to improve our results so we think we could certainly get to those or get to 10% if we get loss ratios down from where they are today and we're working on that and it's getting there.
We've seen the results so we're pleased.
I can't tell you when it's going to happen but that -- we said "Short term what am I looking at?" I think that would be a number that we'd be happy with today in this environment.
It appears to have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
That concludes today's conference ladies and gentlemen.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
James Anderson Senior Vice President and Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon.
Good morning everyone and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2012 fourth quarter financial results.
With us on this morning's call are: Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom's and Craig's remarks about the quarter and annual results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call today.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday February 11 2013.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the financial supplement released today.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Today CNA reported a fourth quarter net operating loss of $11 million and a net loss of $9 million as compared with net operating income of $192 million and net income of $193 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Storm Sandy had a $190 million after-tax impact on CNA's fourth quarter results including reinstatement premiums.
This compares to $11 million impact from catastrophes in the prior year period.
The Sandy loss while a significant event for us was not oversized given our market share in that region.
For the year net operating income was $587 million and net income was $628 million as compared with a net operating income of $610 million and net income of $612 million in 2011.
The 2012 full year impact of catastrophes including reinstatement premiums was $270 million after tax as compared with $144 million in 2011.
We've been hearing for years that the Northeast was due for a major event and now we've had one.
Loss estimates of as much as $25 billion put storm Sandy among the top 5 U.S.
catastrophes on record.
Numbers alone do not do justice to the devastation across the region nor to the courage of first responders and the resilience of those who are putting their lives back together as we speak.
I am extremely proud of the CNA claim team.
Their tireless efforts on behalf of our policies and producers exemplify CNA at its best.
On a positive note our core Property &amp; Casualty operations produced net written premium growth of 7% in the fourth quarter and 3% for the year.
We continue to achieve rate increases across our Property &amp; Casualty portfolio 6% in the fourth quarter and 6% for the year.
This was our second consecutive year of rate improvement.
Not only did the pace of improvement pickup in 2012 we sustained our rate momentum through the fourth quarter.
We expect our sustained progress on rates should continue to drive improvement in our non-cat accident year loss ratio.
Unfortunately in the fourth quarter rate-driven improvement was offset by several large losses.
For the full year the ratio improved 1.1 points to 67.7%.
With respect to the combined ratio the fourth quarter and full year ratios were 116.1% and 105% respectively.
Excluding the impact of catastrophes and prior year development our fourth quarter combined ratio increased 1 point to 103.2%.
This increase was largely due to higher acquisition costs and some seasonality in our technology spend.
Our Specialty business delivered another solid underwriting result with a reported fourth quarter combined ratio of 93.9%.
Specialty's net written premiums grew 3% in the fourth quarter and 2% for the year.
As we've said before we continue to increase pricing and tighten underwriting standards to address the unfavorable loss trends we have mentioned in earlier calls.
In that regard we are encouraged by the favorable rate trajectory in Specialty reaching 6% in the fourth quarter with retention holding steady in the mid-80s.
Specialty's new to loss business ratio was approximately 1:1 consistent with recent quarters.
Specialty's fourth quarter non-cat accident year loss ratio increased over the prior year period by 2.6 points to 68.4%.
The increase reflects the continued unfavorable loss trend in Professional &amp; Management Liability.
For the 2012 full year Specialty's non-cat accident year loss ratio was 67.7% up modestly from the 67.2% we booked in 2011.
Commercial's fourth quarter apart the combined ratio was 132.7%.
It was heavily affected by storm Sandy losses which added over 28 points to the combined ratio.
Commercial's fourth quarter non-cat accident year loss ratio improved over the prior year period by 1.2 points to 69.6%.
For the 2012 full year the ratio was 68.6% a 1.6 point improvement over 2011.
Commercial's net written premiums grew 3% in the fourth quarter and 1% in 2012.
These growth rates include the effect of the sale in November of 2011 of the First Insurance Company of Hawaii.
Excluding this effect Commercial grew 5% in the quarter and the year.
We have had 3 consecutive years of rate increases in Commercial reaching 8% in the third and fourth quarters of this year with retention running at 78% in both quarters.
New-to-loss business ratio was 0.9:1 in the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011.
Now I would like to spend a moment on Hardy the Lloyd's operation we acquired in July.
Hardy reported a net operating loss of $26 million in the fourth quarter on net written premiums of $61 million.
The loss was almost entirely attributable to the after-tax impact of $25 million from Sandy including reinstatement premiums.
Catastrophes increased Hardy's combined ratio by 45.2 points in the fourth quarter and 21.4 points since the July acquisition.
Excluding catastrophes and development Hardy's combined ratio was 105.8% in the fourth quarter and 100.1% since July.
Hardy's non-cat accident year loss ratio of 51.4% in the fourth quarter and 47% since the closing contributed modestly to the improvement in our Property &amp; Casualty non-cat accident year loss ratio.
With that I will now turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
In the fourth quarter CNA's results were dominated by the after-tax loss of $190 million from Sandy.
The losses produced by the storm along with the reserve charges in our Life &amp; Group segment resulted in CNA reporting a net operating loss of $7 million.
P&amp;C operations produced fourth quarter net operating income of $60 million.
Operating income excluding the effect of storm Sandy was $250 million consistent with prior quarters.
In the fourth quarter our core P&amp;C businesses continued to benefit from favorable prior year development $67 million pretax or 4.1 points on the combined ratio this compares to $244 million or 16.1 points in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In our Non-Core Life &amp; Group segment we completed our annual fourth quarter review of GAAP reserve adequacy for the runoff Life &amp; Group business lines.
The resulting reserve adjustments while a negative were significantly less than last year.
In our payout annuity business line which consists of single premium group and structured settlement annuities we recorded a $24 million after-tax charge related to unlocking actuarial reserve assumptions.
The reserve charge and the assumption change were driven by the current low interest rate environment and our expectations about future investment yields.
This charge compares to a $115 million reserve charge in the prior year period.
In our long-term care business line we increased claim reserves by $20 million after tax as compared to a $33 million claim reserve increase in the prior year period.
The claim reserve increase was driven by an increasing duration and severity claim trend.
We of course reviewed and updated all of our assumptions to reflect our current views on interest rates morbidity and persistency.
We continue to believe our reserves are modestly redundant although the amount of redundancy was meaningfully reduced.
This margin contraction was reflected in additional shadow reserves associated with this segment.
These details are further laid out on Page 19 of our financial supplement.
Excluding reserve adjustments in both years fourth quarter Life &amp; Group results were essentially flat to the prior year period and generally consistent with prior quarters this year.
Our corporate segments which primarily includes corporate expenses reported a $15 million fourth quarter after-tax operating loss as compared to $4 million in net operating income in the prior year's fourth quarter.
The prior period included a $22 million favorable tax benefit.
Both periods benefited from a small amount of favorable reserve development associated with our runoff on CNA Re and other related reserves.
Our decision to increase our dividend this quarter reflects our confidence as we continue to improve our earnings power and build on our balance sheet's financial strength and stability.
All our capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our target levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
The value per common share at year end was $45.71 a share a 3% decrease from the end of the third quarter reflecting the lack of net income as well as increases in shadow reserves and minimum pension liability.
Year-over-year book value per common share increased 7%.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gains stood at approximately $4.5 billion at year end 2012 a $100 million increase from the end of the third quarter.
Our common shareholders’ equity excluding other comprehensive income was $11.5 billion or $42.62 per common share at year end a year-over-year increase of 4%.
Our statutory surplus at year end was $10 million after the payment of a $150 million dividend to the holding company in the fourth quarter.
We continued to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $450 million at year end 2012.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to about 1 year of our annual net corporate obligations.
Operating cash flow excluding trading activity during the fourth quarter was approximately $270 million as compared to approximately $900 million in the prior year period.
The fourth quarter of 2011 included cash inflows of $565 million from commutations.
Cash principal repayments through paydowns bond calls and maturities were approximately $1 billion and $3.7 billion in the fourth quarter and full year respectively.
Net investment income was $563 million pretax in the fourth quarter as compared to $523 million in the prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to our limited partnership investments which produced fourth quarter pretax income of $67 million in 2012 a return slightly under 3%.
For the year pretax LP income was $251 million a return of approximately 11%.
Net investment income from fixed maturity securities was $494 million pretax a $12 million decrease from the prior year period.
The decrease reflects the effect of investing at lower yields.
We made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio sector allocations this quarter.
The investment-grade corporate bonds sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
The fixed income assets that support our long-duration lifelike liabilities had an effective duration of 11.3 years at year end a slight decrease from 11.4 years at the end of this year's third quarter and is in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets that support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 3.9 years at year end a slight increase from 3.8 years at the end of the third quarter.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high-quality and aligned with our business objectives.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thanks Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to summarize our 2012 accomplishments: positive growth in Commercial &amp; Specialty for 2 years in a row; rate increases in Commercial of 7% and in Specialty of 5%; 3.3 points of favorable development in our core Property &amp; Casualty business; a favorable impact from Hardy on growth and the non-cat accident year-loss ratio; improvement in our capital position reflected in a year-over-year increase in book value per share of 7% and lastly a 33% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.20 per common share.
Now we would be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Mr.
Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had one quick question.
On the -- in the Commercial business in the press release you highlight a kind of a one-off large loss.
And I'm wondering if you can give us a sense of how big that was.
Well there were several large losses Jay.
We typically always account for a couple in that particular quarter.
But we probably had twice as many as before a total of 5 large ones.
And we consider a large loss $5 million or more.
So the 3 in excess of what we normally look at were probably about $16 million.
Research Division</strong> That's just in the Commercial segment? Correct.
Research Division</strong> And that's overall? Commercial.
In Specialty we had a large dental malpractice loss as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess the underlying question of course is when I look at this underlying loss ratio you've taken Specialty it looks like it ticked up in the fourth quarter relative to the first 3 quarters.
Can we assume a lot of that has to do with some of this large loss activity? There was nothing underlying in there that we should be addressing is there? No think about the large loss impact.
Jay this is Craig.
If I could just add on take a look at the full year Specialty loss ratio which was 67.7% and you can see that's roughly equivalent to what it was at the end of last year's full year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I guess related to that would you suggest that in that business -- and I would also think in the Commercial business that the kind of earned price increases you should see in 2013 is it fair to say they are above what you would expect for normal claims inflation? We're certainly seeing that now in Commercial.
It's favorable.
When you look at written rate earned rate loss trend yes we have a positive margin in Commercial.
We don't have that yet in Specialty it's slightly negative.
But as you know we have been raising Specialty rates.
The market is a little slower in that regard versus Commercial.
But we expect Specialty rates to continue their upward swing.
Research Division</strong> So at 6% rate increase that you don't think materially exceeds your claims inflation? I think what Tom was referring to Jay is just the earned -- at the moment the earned rate increase is more in the 3% slightly over 3% range in Specialty.
Yes the 6% that we said in the conversation was written rate right? So of course earned rate lags.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I -- actually the question was more in '13.
So I guess assuming this price increases continue even at this levels in '13 your earnings increases I would assume certainly by the second half of the year your earned rate would be exceeding your expected claims inflation? Yes.
Our next question comes from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just a few quick questions.
First of all you mentioned the uptick in non-cat AYLR for Specialty and you referenced some trends in Professional &amp; Management Liability.
You had talked about this trends even in the third quarter.
Is this the same trends we're talking about? Or was there something new this quarter? No.
If you look at the Specialty business what we would call large lawyers program lawyers and employment practices are 3 hotspots for us and we continue to push on the pricing.
And there's a falloff in retention as we push for pricing.
But we like that tradeoff.
So we'll continue to push on that.
But the claims don't go away after 1 quarter so we're on top of it.
But we'll continue to push rate and we are getting good rate in that business.
Okay.
The second question relates to Hardy.
We've talked about how CNA will be providing 100% capital support for 2013.
We talked about the expense ratio even last quarter and my question is does that sort of normalize immediately for Q1 2013? Or is there a lag where the expense ratio will fall over the next few quarters? The answer Amit is it will fall over the course of the year.
So we're still -- remember we said earlier that we expected marginal to any positive negative out of Hardy this year.
We'd expect a small positive in '13.
We still have some purchase accounting adjustments unusual ones running through operating expenses.
You'll see that in the K when you get it but it's about $5 million of unusual.
We still -- most of the money we'll spend on the financial systems integration which will be spent this year so that should start -- that expense there should trend down by more than 10 points over the course of 2013.
That's helpful.
And similar to that how should we think about the retentions for 2013 for Hardy? Well Hardy is -- I'm not sure exactly how to answer.
Remember Hardy is a little bit lumpier business because it's specialization and one-off coming as well as the -- just how the business really is conducted there.
So I think it's a little less -- a little less meaningful in terms of looking at retention honestly.
Okay.
The other question I had -- this is the final question it's sort of a big-picture question and this goes back to the prior discussion.
Just based on I guess the margins on rate you're getting what do you think -- and again I'm not looking for a specific guidance what do you think is now an achievable ROE goal for 2013? Well I think you're going to -- maybe the right way to answer -- right now we're probably running at about somewhere around 6% on a run rate basis.
If you kind of look back at P&amp;C ops improvements over the course of '12 that might be a reasonable thing to think about as you think of '13.
So -- and it's also important when you think of '12 that you kind of look back -- and it's in the financial supplement by the way the way we look at '11 today.
So the way we look at '11 today in terms of non-cat accident-loss ratio is probably 1 point higher recall that we increased comp medical severity and auto frequency was up.
So if you looked at that you'd see that P&amp;C probably got close to 2 points better in combined over the course of the year.
Maybe that's a reasonable way to look at it.
We do have some headwinds naturally out of investment income because of lower yield rates which will slow -- to a certain extent slow the progress.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Oh I’m sorry.
We have a question.
It comes from Ryan Butkus with Citi.
Could you talk a little bit about your upcoming debt maturities? I know it's 2014.
But just curious to see how you're thinking about that as we head into 2013.
Right.
We don't have any debt maturities as you've suggested Ryan until fourth quarter of '14.
It's like $550 million.
And we'll take a look at that over the course of '13 likely in terms of where interest rates are.
And we looked at refinancing but it's really on -- and has been uneconomic as we've looked at it.
It would help the future income but it's not really helping the overall book value of the place.
And remember we've got a $46 billion investment portfolio that also benefits from any rise of interest rates.
So we'll be paying attention to the direction of rates over the course of '13 but no real anxiety here about when we might act.
[Operator Instructions] And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2013 First Quarter Financial Results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides which we are providing for the first time.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com under the Investor Relations menu.
In keeping with our expanding disclosures over the past few years the slides are intended to provide further insight and transparency into our efforts to improve underwriting margins enhance our financial strength and increase shareholder value.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom's and Craig's remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I'd like to advise everyone that during the call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday April 29 2013.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K as well as in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
With that I'll turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
CNA's first quarter net operating income of $231 million and net income of $250 million were strong financial results and consistent with last year's first quarter.
We're especially pleased with the premium growth accelerating rate increases and stable retentions reflected in this year's -- this quarter's results.
We still have work to do on the loss ratio but we believe our strategies are coming together.
Investment results were good and our capital position continued to improve.
CNA's book value per share excluding other comprehensive income increased 2% from year-end 2012.
Our core Property &amp; Casualty operations produced net written premium growth of 10% in the first quarter largely driven by rate increases across the portfolio.
Hardy contributed 3 points of this growth.
In addition as shown on Slide 13 our target customer segments continue to represent an increasing share of total new business.
The first quarter combined ratio was 101.5%.
Excluding the impact of catastrophes and prior year development the ratio was 101 which was approximately 1 point better than both first quarter last year and full year 2012.
Overall rates increased 8% in the first quarter extending a trade of rate increases that began in early 2011.
Our Specialty business continued to deliver solid underwriting results with the first quarter combined ratio of 95% more than 2 points better than last year's first quarter.
The loss ratio before catastrophes and development improved nearly 1 point from last year's fourth quarter to 67%.
We are pleased by Specialty's 5% growth.
Rate increases in Specialty rose to 7% with professional liability leading the way at 9%.
Retention remains steady at 86%.
In Commercial our first quarter combined ratio was 106.8% as compared with 106.2% in the first quarter of 2012.
Commercial's combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 103.7%.
This was 1.7 points better than last year's third quarter -- first quarter due to our improvement in the noncat accident year loss ratio.
Commercial's underwriting margin improved approximately 0.5 point over full year 2012 in spite of some sizable noncatastrophe weather-related losses during the quarter.
Commercial's net written premiums grew 9%.
Rates also increased 9% while retention improved 1 point from the prior year quarter to 78%.
We had double-digit rate increases in small business and middle market which represent approximately 64% of the total Commercial book.
Hardy reported a net operating loss of $8 million in the first quarter on net written premiums of $55 million and a combined ratio of 105.5%.
Excluding catastrophes and development the ratio was 104.1% as compared with 105.8% in last year's fourth quarter.
Hardy's first quarter loss ratios x cats and development was 47.3% 4.1 points better than last year's fourth quarter.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
First quarter net operating income was $231 million and operating return on equity of 8%.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $0.86 per share.
Our overall financial results were solid driven by strong investment income and improved margins across all our businesses including our Life &amp; Group runoff business.
We are encouraged by the first quarter rate increases and margin improvement as well as continued net written premium growth in our core P&amp;C business.
We continue to emphasize growth in targeted segments where we have specialized expertise and underwriting claim and risk control.
Our core P&amp;C operations produced first quarter net operating income of $257 million on a par with some of our best recent quarters.
Rate increases steady retention and disciplined expense management were the key drivers of margin improvement in our Specialty and Commercial segments.
The presentation slide we posted on our website for the first time provide some additional perspective on our rate and retention trends.
In Specialty we are driving rate increases across the portfolio.
As you can see on Slide 8 of those -- of that additional information not only are the increases improving over time but our most aggressive rate actions are in lines where loss trends have pressure on margins such as private company management liability and lawyers professional liability.
As for Commercial Slide 10 shows rate and retention trends that reflect our disciplined risk selection.
As Tom mentioned small business and middle market reached double-digit rate increases in the current quarter.
Our underwriting expense ratio improvement from year end reflects the growth in earned premium coupled with a lower level of spend after adjusting for the addition of Hardy.
Sustaining this improvement will be a major focus for us this year.
Beyond a very active approach to managing the portfolio the first quarter results of our core P&amp;C businesses continue to reflect our sustained disciplined reserving practices.
We had a modest amount of favorable prior year loss development on a par with last year's first quarter.
In our Non-Core Life &amp; Group segment improved results were attributable to favorable experience in our long-term care business driven by improved morbidity and persistency.
We did benefit from favorable mortality results this quarter across all of the Life Group businesses.
While the results were welcomed we do not think they reflect a longer-term trend at this time.
We continue to actively manage our runoff business for improved operational effectiveness.
In addition we continue to evaluate the pricing on our long-term care business and seek rate increases where appropriate.
Our Corporate segment which primarily includes corporate expenses reported a $26 million first quarter net operating loss consistent with the prior year's first quarter.
We believe our first quarter results reflect our progress as well as our potential to further improve our earnings power.
Meanwhile we continue to build on our balance sheet's financial strength and stability.
All our capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our target levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
Book value per common share at the end of the first quarter was $46 a modest increase from year end 2012 driven by earnings but partially offset by a small decrease in our investment portfolio's net unrealized gain.
Our pretax unrealized gain position at quarter end was approximately $4.3 billion.
Our common shareholders' equity excluding other comprehensive income was $11.7 billion or $43.30 per common share at quarter end a 2% increase over year-end 2012.
Our statutory surplus at quarter end was essentially unchanged from year-end 2012 at approximately $10 billion.
This is after a $100 million dividend paid to the holding company during the quarter.
We continue to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $460 million at quarter end.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to about 1 year of our annual net corporate obligations.
Operating cash flow excluding trading activity during the quarter was approximately $240 million including approximately $125 million in Sandy-paid losses.
Cash principal repayments through pay-downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $870 million in the first quarter.
Net investment income was $633 million pretax in the first quarter as compared to $648 million in the prior year period.
Our LP investments performed very well in the first quarter of 2013 delivering pretax income of $131 million which was consistent with last year's first quarter.
The first quarter rate of return in 2013 was 5.4%.
In Slide 17 you can see historical data on the performance of our LP investments which on a 10-year annualized basis have outperformed the S&amp;P 500 by approximately 160 basis points with less volatility.
Net investment income for fixed maturity securities was $499 million pretax a $17 million decrease from the prior year period.
The effect of investing at lower yields was partially offset by the year-over-year increase in invested assets.
We made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio sector allocations this quarter.
The investment-grade corporate bond sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
The fixed income assets that support our long-duration life-like liabilities had an effective duration of 11.1 years at quarter end a slight decrease from 11.3 years at year end 2012 and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets that support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.1 years at quarter end a slight increase from 3.9 years at year end 2012.
Our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high-quality and in line with our business objectives.
One last point we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share.
Now we will be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Thanks for the expanded disclosure on the slide show it's very helpful.
Using Slide 13 as a backdrop how would you quantify what percent of your P&amp;C book is focus versus nonfocus? You're saying the segments? No just as an overall percent.
What would you say is your focus just looking at the P&amp;C portion? Not looking for exact numbers.
I'm just looking for a percentage.
Yes.
Right now Amit I would say in terms of what's in -- what's written about 2/3 is in focus segments.
Okay.
I guess related to that would be what would be the loss ratio bench if you will for the focus versus non-focus portion? Well the loss ratio has been improving.
It's roughly I'd say this year it's roughly equivalent has become equivalent.
Over past years there had been about a 5- to 10-point loss ratio disadvantage from the non-focus segments.
But as we've shrunk the segments the non-focus segments as well as repriced those non-focus there's not a big loss ratio differential.
And then eventually does that keep on diminishing or as you take underwriting actions as you just said that the loss ratio is equivalent.
Did this -- the non-focus end up becoming focus over time? No I think we just -- we would drive more growth as we said.
And that's really been our strategy has been to specialize.
Remember as we've said in the past and right so that we sell outward through producers and to customers that fit our specialized appetite.
So we would expect the percentage of focused business meaning where we think we have the expertise the price and we can deliver a distinctive solution beyond just price in terms of risk control and claims become a larger and larger portion of our business.
And that's what we would expect to drive the growth and to drive improved profitability in the business.
Got it.
The second question is you've talked about in the press release non-rate underwriting actions for 2013 and 2014.
I know we've spent a lot of time talking about this in the past.
What other specific actions do you foresee for 2013 and 2014? Well I think what we talk is managing the mix.
So we are looking at problematic lines in Commercial like auto and workers' comp and addressing those.
We address them by line we address them by geography.
We have told you on prior calls that we've had a bit of a temperature in lawyers professional liability so we're kind of reevaluating our approach in that not only from a pricing standpoint but risk selection.
So I think going back to Craig's earlier comments we're focused on customer segments which we believe over time will be profitable for CNA.
And within those segments managing the mix from a line of business perspective we believe will improve our returns over time.
Got it.
And the final question and I will requeue.
This is a broader question on excess and surplus lines marketplace there has been a lot of chatter about a team moving from the leading surplus lines writer to another company.
If you look at sort of the broader excess and surplus lines and I think you're the seventh or eighth largest writer how do you expect this to play out and how could this possibly impact your business going forward? Yes I think first of all we have some funny business in the E&amp;S business that you quoted us being eighth.
We have some cell phone warranty business and some other things right now.
And also we have the malpractice would be in there.
But from our standpoint what you are talking about that pipe of business is pretty small for us.
What we call CNA Select it's pretty small.
It's been a weak performer over time.
We're reunderwriting the book.
We've gotten out of habitational property.
We've told you in the past.
We've gotten out of transportation.
So it's very very small to us.
So we don't think this has any impact.
Now I would tell you this.
We are getting rate increases in the low teens in our surplus lines business the -- what I'd call the casualty business that you're reading about.
So I think for us we're trying to improve that.
We like our medical malpractice business that's a good business.
So -- but that's not what they're talking about that you're describing.
So I think that's probably the story.
And then what is the large account business as a percent of your surplus lines? I don't know surplus lines.
We -- of the other if you looked at the other number on the slide it's 17% of the other premium.
About $50 million I think.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
I guess starting with Hardy.
We don't have a great history with the numbers obviously.
I guess in a quarter where there's no major catastrophes I found it a little disappointing to see that number the combined ratio comfortably over 100%.
What's going on there? What would be your expectations for a business like that over the course of a year? Well I think remember Jay we had said we're still relatively early in.
And most of the integration effort and expenses will be reflected in 2013.
So you do have some integration expense and still PGAAP amortization expense running through there.
And recall that given the year of account underwriting and we're taking 100% of the 2000 year of account you really just start to earn that premium and that increase kind of slowly over the course of the year.
So what we've said in the past is don't expect a material either positive or negative for the majority of this year.
But we would expect that to improve pretty considerably late in '13 and we'd expect Hardy to make a meaningful contribution to both growth and earnings starting in '14.
I think what we had also said to you is that the loss ratio that you're seeing there is a reasonable expectation and that we thought the expense ratio would come down about 10 points over the course of the time as we finish the integration if that helps you.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
Yes good reminder.
Numbers question.
The investment income from P&amp;C operations.
Do you have a breakout between limited partnerships and fixed income? You use to break that out separately.
I don't see that in the supplement.
Do you happen to have that data? Well I would tell you that all of the limited partnership income is attributed to the P&amp;C.
And I think you ought to be able to see in the P&amp;L I think you'd be able to see in the P&amp;Ls of the -- that are in the supplement and the press release and we can go back and find it for you Jay exactly what the pretax investment income.
As I recall the pretax investment income in Life &amp; Group is a little over $200 million like $204 million.
So if we add $490 million something almost $500 million the remainder would be in P&amp;C and Corporate.
Research Division</strong> Now you break out the investment income for P&amp;C and Corporate we just modeled just the P&amp;C.
And I was wondering the breakdown between that number which you do give that number between limited partnerships and other but I can work offline on that one.
That's not a big deal.
And I think you had mentioned in one of the segments and the call you had said that non-cat weather was a little elevated.
I just -- I didn't catch where you were talking about.
There were a couple of storms in the Southeast that didn't qualify for the ISO definition of cat but they were weather related.
They added about just over 1 point to the loss ratio.
That will be the Commercial lines.
Research Division</strong> The overall...
Commercial lines.
Commercial lines.
Research Division</strong> Commercial lines loss ratio.
Got it.
And then lastly overall claims trends can you talk about what you're seeing and if there are any changes in what you're seeing? No I'd say that general claim trends are -- have been pretty steady.
Elevated a little bit in auto which I think we mentioned before.
But if you're looking for claim trend percentages we think in Specialty lines something around 3% or 3.5% in the general inflation trend.
And in Commercial lines somewhere between 3.5% to maybe 4% as a general claim inflation trend.
But relative to frequency no particular upticks or changes in frequency from what we've seen in the past.
I think the point too Jay when you look at loss trends.
In Commercial earned rate is clearly exceeding the loss trends the same thing is happening in Specialty and that kind of what we would call improvement on the margin really didn't start until the second half of 2012 but is now picking up.
So pretty good differential between earned -- earned rate and loss trends.
So we're pleased with that.
But that's going to take a little time to kick in.
We'll go next to Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
LLC</strong> I want to follow up on Jay's question about Hardy.
I'm looking at the slide Page 11.
The $3 million of pretax development items the impact is that $3 million favorable? No that was unfavorable.
LLC</strong> Okay unfavorable.
And then my -- just so I understand your comments Craig 10 points of improvement I think you were sort of saying on the expense ratio from here or from some earlier point in time as far as the expense ratio.
I mean so I think of 10 points lower than 57%? From here.
From here Ron.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So obviously I take 10 points off of 104% it's a 94% we had no cats thankfully but we had some adverse development.
But did you really -- is the target really for Hardy over the cycle or over the course of the year to be at a 94% when my basis got no cats in it? It just seems surprisingly high from what I believe is a severity writer.
No and we would consider that to be with cats loaded in Ron in terms of what we'd expect.
LLC</strong> So you expect to do -- okay with some cat load at a 94% but that -- okay I'm surprised your target isn't lower.
Well I think that you're -- maybe you're thinking of -- I mean Hardy is not a heavy -- they are Lloyd's participant but they are not a heavy cat writer.
They wrote a small amount of property treaty and they are heavy first-party writer so they do have cat-related exposures to their property business.
But we're not talking about a property cat reinsurer here.
That's a very small component of their book of business.
LLC</strong> With my understanding it was definitely a Specialty writer but it was sort of severity minded whether it was writing marine and other lines book.
We'll go next to Kevin Shields with Pine River Capital.
I had a couple of questions.
Could you give us anything that was unusual in the paid losses this quarter and give us the paid losses for cat this quarter and last? Well first of all Superstorm or Hurricane Sandy that's why you're seeing the paid to incurred being higher in Commercial.
It's clearly related.
We're paying those claims now so that would be the answer.
I think I'd said in the -- go ahead Kevin.
Do you have a reestimated C&amp;D loss estimate and the percentage that's been paid at this point? We do not have.
We have not reestimated or we haven't changed our estimate I should say see of Sandy.
And what I said in my remarks is we paid about $125 million of claims over the course of this quarter.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take a follow-up question from Amit Kumar.
A few follow-ups.
Just going back to I guess Slide 8 and Slide 10 regarding the new business production.
Can you sort of talk about which segments is that going into for -- I guess which subsegment is it going into for those 2 segments? Is that in some specific segment? Just remind us or refresh us where that is coming from.
All right.
So Amit just so we understand the question are you looking for...
The distribution of new business amongst the subsegments.
Between HealthPro management liability international surety? Yes yes yes.
Okay.
Well we have not provided that disclosure.
I don't think I have this right here with us to give you.
But we did share with you on the later slide what percentage were going in -- what percentage of that total were going into identified customers segments which would include small business.
So I don't have a breakdown of new business by each of those subsegments here today.
Maybe I can follow up offline on that.
The second question is the prior discussion on I guess professional liability and maybe I missed this.
Was there any adverse development in this quarter which was more than offset by prior period reserve releases? Order in professional liability? Yes or any other segments specifically which was more than maybe adverse development in the recent years more than offset by prior period reserve releases? No really I would tell you that in general both the '11 and '12 years where -- when we looked at them relatively unchanged.
We did have -- and we did have a small amount of prior development most of that in Commercial was general liability lines but those are owed to in prior years.
And in professional liability I should say in Specialty the favorable development was really driven by Med-Mal and that's more prior years.
Current years that's been a little worse than prior.
But as kind of things bump around I don't think anything that's significant -- wouldn't point out I think anything significant trend wise.
And some of the Specialty businesses we write the property casualty covers alongside and a couple of those segments particularly aging services and some of the HealthPro segments and we had some positive development out of health -- really out of the property-related businesses in the HealthPro.
So those were where the favorable development was.
But I don't know if that's exactly your question there.
There's always going to be a little movement here and there but nothing significant.
Got it.
So that's what I was looking for if anything had changed just based on I guess commentary coming out of one other company.
The only -- the last question I had was on the runoff segment.
You said in your opening remarks you're evaluating pricing and I guess seeking rate increases where appropriate.
Can you just expand on that and maybe give a specific example? Well we have been as you know most of that older generation business you've heard it from other writers has been underpriced.
And as those products have come off rate guarantees we have looked at those products' performance and we filed for rate increases where they had been appropriate and where we've -- so far I'd say we've been generally successful with regulators at getting those or at least getting a portion of those.
The only really -- and maybe the most meaningful contribution you could look at is you could look at the net written premium in that noncore health segment which is about $151 million both this quarter and last.
So really that's about $6 million of rates increase in this year's quarter which is the reason it's flat despite the fact we've had lapses in debts that come from past.
So we continue to push additional rate increases through the book.
And we think that will make -- should make a more meaningful contribution going forward.
But it's a little early to count that.
And we'll take our next question from Vinay Misquith.
Research Division</strong> Question on the ROE.
This quarter we saw an 8% ROE for the company.
What do you think would be a reasonable ROE for the company given the low interest rate environment and given the competitive landscape right now? Well I think that we -- is that a target or where are we today? Research Division</strong> What would be a target and when do you think you can get there? Well I think that what we said in the past was that we thought the run rate -- I mean last quarter I said the run rate was about 6.
I would tell you that we're trending more closer to 7 at the moment.
And we believe we could even in this low interest rate environment and with the drag get close to 10.
I don't think we have given exactly a time period for that.
It will be up over the next several years.
And it appears that there are no more questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to today's speakers for any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Lexi.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2013 second quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com under the Investor Relations menu.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom's and Craig's remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday July 29 2013.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I am pleased to report on a very good second quarter.
Our margins as defined by the combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development improved 3.4 points as compared with the first quarter of 2013 and 3.6 points as compared with 2012's second quarter reflecting meaningful improvement in both loss and expense ratios.
Our overall growth momentum continued.
Net written premiums increased 7% driven by Hardy Specialty and rate increases.
We continued a meaningful level of rate achievement and it was consistent with the first quarter for both Specialty and Commercial.
We produced solid operating income and operating ROE.
We received an upgrade in our financial strength and unsecured credit rating from Standard &amp; Poor's.
We believe these results reflect the meaningful progress we are making in the execution of our strategic priorities.
We are seeing real demonstrative benefits from our focus on targeted customer segments and products as well as disciplined expense management and of course from improved market conditions.
As you know we have been actively managing our Property &amp; Casualty portfolio.
This is evident in our progress in targeted customer segments trimming exposure in classes outside of our appetite and strong rate achievement.
We are taking aggressive and appropriately differentiated underwriting and pricing actions on our businesses that we believe are necessary in order to improve margins.
In the second quarter for our targeted customer segments we are achieving 8% rate and 81% retention.
For business outside of our targeted segments we're obtaining higher rates 11% and retention is 10 points lower at 71%.
We continue to stick to our guns and push rate over retention in order to improve our margins.
In addition in the fourth quarter we decided to exit a transportation program.
And this quarter we've decided to exit a recreational watercraft program.
These actions are consistent with our strategy to focus on customer segments and products with attractive growth and profit prospects and to move away from areas that do not match our appetite or expertise.
Our Specialty business continued to deliver solid underwriting results with a combined ratio of 90.4.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 95.6.
Net written premium growth was 5%.
Rate and retention remain strong.
Rate was 7% in each of the last 2 quarters and retention was relatively constant.
The Commercial combined ratio was 111.7 which included 7.1 points of catastrophes.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 101.2.
Second quarter rate at 9% is strong and consistent with the prior quarter.
Revenue and retention declined in line with our rate stance and underwriting decision making.
Hardy reported a net operating loss of $2 million in the second quarter or net written premiums of $138 million.
The combined ratio was 98.4.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 81.
I am now going to turn the call over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Before I get into the results let me remind you that presentation slides have been posted on our website to provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
Second quarter net operating income improved to $204 million a 34% increase over the prior year period.
This produced an operating return on equity just under 7%.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $0.75 per share up from $0.56 per share in the second quarter of 2012.
Net income was $194 million or $0.72 per share which also compares favorably to the prior year period.
We are encouraged by the improved underwriting margin generated across our core P&amp;C businesses reflecting targeted underwriting actions and broad-based rate increases.
Our core P&amp;C Operations produced net operating income of $258 million in the second quarter up 58% as compared with the prior year period.
Improved net investment income and non-cat accident year underwriting results drove the increase.
Our second quarter P&amp;C Operations loss ratio was 68.4% compared with last year's second quarter at 67.9%.
Excluding catastrophes and development the loss ratio was 64.5% a 2.9 point improvement over last year's second quarter.
We believe that comparing year-to-date loss ratio performance with where we ended the full prior year is a better measure of our progress.
On that basis our 2013 year-to-date loss ratio excluding cats and development of 65.7% is 2 points better than full year 2012.
Our second quarter expense ratio also improved to 32.9%.
This reflects our expense management discipline and the growth in earned premium.
Improving our expense competitiveness continues to be a major focus for us this year.
Specialty second quarter net operating income improved to $148 million with a calendar year combined ratio of 90.4%.
Specialty's result benefited from 5.9 points of favorable development.
Excluding catastrophes and development Specialty's loss ratio was 65.8% a 1.3 point improvement over last year's second quarter.
The year-to-date loss ratio of 66.4 is also 1.3 points better than full year 2012.
The improvement was driven by both rate achievement and targeted underwriting actions that continue to refine the portfolio mix.
The Specialty expense ratio improved to 29.7% well under the prior year period.
Commercial's second quarter net operating income significantly increased to $112 million up 96% from the prior year period.
Commercial's results were affected by 2 one-time events.
The first is $35 million of pretax adverse loss development in workers' compensation related to the New York Fund for Reopened Cases legislation.
Adjusting for the impact of this law change Commercial's prior year loss development would have been slightly positive.
The second event involved the beneficial $46 million pretax legal settlement related to workers' compensation residual market litigation.
This benefit is reflected within other revenues and is not included in the Commercial combined ratio.
Excluding cats and development the Commercial loss ratio was 66% a 1.7 point improvement over last year's second quarter.
Comparing the year-to-date loss ratio of 67.3% with full year 2012 shows an improvement of 1.3 points.
Rate and retention trends as shown in the presentation slides on Page 10 reflect our disciplined risk selection and strong rate achievement.
Commercial has attained 9% rate in each of the first 2 quarters of 2013 following 7% rate in each of the preceding 3 quarters.
Retention of 75% in the second quarter is reflective of targeted underwriting actions on portions of the portfolio as Tom discussed.
Our Non-Core Life &amp; Group segment produced a $36 million operating loss in the quarter primarily due to higher individual long-term care claim frequency.
We continue to evaluate the pricing in our long-term care business and are actively seeking rate increases where appropriate.
Our Corporate segment reported an $18 million second quarter net operating loss compared with a $14 million loss in the prior year's second quarter.
We continue to build on our balance sheet's financial strength and stability.
Our capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our targeted levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
Book value per common share decreased to $44.29 down 3.7% from the end of the first quarter.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $2.5 billion at quarter end a decrease of approximately $1.8 billion from the end of the first quarter 2013.
Approximately $900 million of the decline's impact on book value was offset by a decrease in Shadow reserves related to our Life &amp; Group run-off business.
In addition I would note that while the increase in interest rates had an adverse impact on our unrealized gain position during the quarter at current interest rate levels it should have a favorable effect on earnings going forward.
Our common shareholders' equity excluding other comprehensive income was $11.8 billion or $43.81 per common share up slightly from the end of the first quarter.
Our statutory surplus at quarter end was $10.2 billion up 2% from the end of the first quarter.
This was after a $100 million dividend paid to the holding company during the second quarter.
We continue to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $470 million at quarter end well above our 1 year of annual net Corporate obligations target.
In the second quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was approximately $340 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay-downs bond calls and maturity were approximately $950 million.
Net investment income was $578 million pretax in the second quarter up 23% from the prior year period.
The increase was driven by our limited partnership investments which produced second quarter pretax income of $79 million in 2013 as compared with a pretax loss of $35 million in the prior year period.
The second quarter rate of return in 2013 was 3.1%.
Net investment income from our fixed maturity securities in the second quarter was $498 million pretax essentially flat with the prior year period.
While we made relatively minor changes to our investment portfolio sector allocations this quarter towards the end of the quarter and more recently we have taken advantage of attractive yield opportunities in the tax-exempt municipal bond market.
Overall the investment-grade Corporate bond sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
The fixed income assets which support our long-duration life-like liabilities had an effective duration of 11.2 years at quarter end a slight increase from the prior year quarter and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.3 years at quarter end up from 4.1 years at the end of the first quarter.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high-quality and aligned with our business objectives.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thanks Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to close with some observations.
Operating and net income of $204 million and $194 million increased 34% and 17% respectively compared with the second quarter of 2012.
Our 2013 year-to-date loss ratio excluding cats and development of 65.7 is 2 points better than full year 2012.
Our expense ratio declined to 32.9 in the second quarter.
We have grown Property &amp; Casualty net written premiums 9% year-to-date.
We are actively managing our mix of business and it is seen in our results.
We have strong investment results and improved capital position and our book value per share excluding AOCI has increased.
We are pleased that Standard &amp; Poor's recently announced that it had upgraded CNA's financial strength ratings to A with a stable outlook.
This enhances our competitive position in many Specialty and long-tail businesses.
S&amp;P also upgraded the credit ratings on CNA Financial Corp.
to BBB.
These upgrades validate the work we have done to enhance our financial strength.
Lastly we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.20.
And with that we would be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question maybe I'm misinterpreting.
I'm sensing maybe an increased sense of urgency for a lack of a better word on your behalf to improve margins.
You saw the -- in the standard business you saw the growth slip quite a bit.
You seem to be more focused on your better businesses.
Am I misreading that? No.
I think we've been focused on improving margins for a long time but it's a complicated process particularly when you change your underwriting strategy you're changing your mix.
There are a lot of things that have been in play over the last whatever it is 3 4 years.
So I don't think it's a greater sense of urgency Jay.
I think it's always been there but you know it's pretty hard to turn numbers around in this business overnight.
And we think we've put a lot of things in place that are starting to reap those kind of benefits on margins.
And clearly if you look at the strong written rate in Commercial and Specialty we are improving margins.
So we're pretty pleased with that and we expect that that's going to continue.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
You did notice that the renewal retention on the standard business did slip and I think it's a reasonable trade-off.
I'm wondering if you can qualitatively describe the market conditions and what you're seeing.
Are you seeing any increase in competition among your competitors? Okay.
Let me kind of first comment on the -- as you've described the premium decline in Commercial.
We exited a personal watercraft program that I mentioned in my remarks.
We actually transferred the earned premium reserve to another underwriter.
That was 5 points of the negative growth if you will.
And the transportation that I also cited in my remarks was 2 points.
And we have been over time reducing our exposure to what we would call international work comp that's about 3 points.
So if you add that up that's about 10 points that is based on underwriting decisions that we have taken of I'll say fairly recent vintage.
But if you take those out the reality is we were really -- I guess we were up 3 points in Commercial.
So we're taking strong underwriting action and that's what's reflected on the Commercial side.
Plus if you look at new business to lost we're getting a little pickier relative to pricing on new accounts.
So we're just getting I'd say a lot tougher as we continue to execute and drive margin improvement.
As far as competition it never goes away and we see plenty of competition both in Commercial and Specialty.
I don't think we have seen anything unusual in the second quarter on competition.
I think it's been pretty consistent.
If there is one thing that I would think has kind of shown is that's some of the underwriters who may have been sticking to their guns have kind of let up a little bit to not lose the business.
So people are more picky on new and trying to protect their renewals where they have knowledge as to the account profitability and performance.
And we'll take our next question from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just a few questions here.
First of all maybe a numbers question.
Do you have the paid loss number handy? Yes.
In Commercial it was 116% driven by Sandy.
Sandy had at $40 million we paid in the quarter as well as some large casualty work comp reserves.
And Specialty was 91%.
And was there anything unusual in that or no? We just had higher-than-expected reserve releases.
Okay.
That's helpful.
The other question and this sort of goes back to the prior question.
As you look forward I guess in both Specialty and Commercial and you think about margin improvement how do you think about margin improvement as it relates to improvement in loss ratio versus improvement in expense ratio going forward? Well first of all risk selection has a lot to do with it.
So we are focused on the customer segments which quite honestly outperformed the rest of the portfolio.
So the more we drive into the customer segments the better I'd say risk selection and pricing.
At the same time we continue to push for rates.
They did not fall off in Commercial.
In the second quarter they were I think we've used the term consistent.
But it's kind of interesting.
Rates did go up in the second quarter in ocean marine automobile workers' comp our small package business fidelity and medical malpractice.
So there are some lines that rates are continuing to move up.
The other thing that we kind of look at is the range of rate increases.
And in Commercial at the low end we have 8% at the high end 14%.
So there's nothing that's getting 1% rate increases.
We're getting pretty good what do you call high-single digit or low-double digit.
And in Specialty it's kind of running between 6% and 11% depending on the line so we think that's all pretty good.
And we also are pretty vigilant on rate decreases.
We only had 9% of our accounts in Commercial that actually got a rate decrease.
Specialty was a little higher than that about 15%.
So we try to minimize the rate decreases.
We try to push rates up in every line of business in every segment.
And we continue to keep pushing.
And as we've traded we've gotten rate and we've given up some retention.
But we think that's the right trade-off going forward.
And then -- and what about the expense initiatives going forward? Do you think you've sort of squeezed out whatever you could or could there be more improvement on sort of the expense side? We are expecting more improvement over time.
I think Amit this is Craig that as we looked at our expense competitiveness we were about 2 or 3 points higher than our better peers who operate similarly.
In the expense ratio we've reduced that gap by about 100 basis points this year.
I think you should expect us to probably sustain that current level.
This year we have a number of plans in place where we would expect to have that difference again in '14.
Got it.
And I guess the only other question and I will requeue after this.
The adverse development in Hardy on the New Zealand and the flooding.
Just remind me what's sort of the delta between now and I guess the upward sort of range of the limit? I guess what I'm trying to ask is what is the probability that this could develop further? And why did it develop this quarter? Let me start with the second part of your question why.
It was a surprise.
It came out of actually the non-marine property so it's not the property reinsurance treaty part that's been fully developed.
I wouldn't expect anything further beyond this quarter.
And those related really to 2 individual losses that were surprises in terms of the extent of the eventual outcome of the loss.
And beyond that you are satisfied with the quality of the book? Yes.
And how should we think about retentions on that book going forward? Well as you can see they are kind of running in the mid-60s now.
And I think clearly the competitive environment in that book is different particularly on the International side.
So think about how we're very much focused on the Property business non-marine property and marine and aviation energy.
So there is some pricing pressure on international property and on aviation which you read about.
So I think you should expect that retentions to stay kind of where they are this quarter.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney.
Research Division</strong> Your commentary on the various 3 segments seems to make sense with what you're -- it's a square with what you're reporting for Specialty and Hardy.
I mean the rate increases are -- that you've priced through have earned through in underlying improvement.
But I'm a little surprised that in Commercial where you're getting 9 points of rate you're only getting 1.7 points of margin.
Is your underlying loss costs in this segment that's a lot higher than the others is this adverse selection? Is there some other factor explaining why the rates aren't -- which have been going on for a full year aren't showing themselves as much in underlying improvement as your other segments? I think Bob if you look at Commercial in the second quarter and I'm rounding numbers here written rate was about 9% earned rate was about 7% loss trends say 3% so that's a 4% margin in Commercial in the quarter.
If you look at Specialty in the quarter now written rate was about 7% earned rate was about 6% loss trend about 3% so margin probably 3% maybe a little bit more.
If you look at it year-to-date Commercial 9% written rate earned rate about 8% loss trend about 3% margin probably 4.5% a little more than that.
And Specialty year-to-date 7% on the written 6% on the earned loss trend about 3% 3% margin.
So I don't know where you came up with 1.7% margin improvement.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
I was using your combined ratio x cats and development 101.2 versus 102.9.
And that squares sort of with your year-to-date number that you've been reporting a little bit less than 2 point improvement in combined ratios.
So I guess the difference for between the 4 and the 2 is you're looking at what? The difference is Bob we've been recognizing rate over trend as we earn it quarter-by-quarter.
So we haven't readjusted the full year accident year down to what we expect the full year to be.
So you should see us all things being equal written rate and trend and earned continue at that pace that we should replicate really double that margin improvement over the -- meaning in loss ratio over the second half of the year now.
And then remind you that in the first quarter we did have a non-cat large property loss that added about a point so that -- and there is some residual from that loss in the first quarter which also has a little bit.
So I think if you thought about all those pieces you'd see the math works.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're saying if we modeled better than 2 point underlying improvements in Q3 Q4 you wouldn't think we were crazy based on terms in Commercial? I never think you're crazy Bob so no.
That's a reasonable expectation.
Research Division</strong> Craig your speech didn't really make mention about what 70-basis-points increase in interest rates does to long-term care and some of your run-off Life businesses.
It seems like you've had a pretty good environmental change.
Maybe it just sort of takes one of the bad risk factors you listed in the 10-K off the table.
But is there any sort of significant -- and you didn't mention you're going to earn more investment income which is good for earnings.
But you didn't really comment on what this means to your long-term care and annuity businesses.
Well I think what I'd say is -- in May we've asked them you can't remember whether it was the last quarter we've been on other calls.
But our -- the market yield in our portfolio is now -- and the reinvesting -- the rate we're reinvesting is still about 100 110 basis points under the current market yield of the book.
So that has improved by 60 or 70 basis points from what the outlook was last quarter.
So the -- I would say Bob that the change is more in terms of its impact on the long-term care and help as it removes or begins to mitigate the risk in that business.
And we have been -- as you can see we have been outearning the increase in reserve discount unwind over the -- keeping pace with over the course of the year.
So that will help us as we're moving forward to do that.
But I don't think it changes the outlook in terms of on an upside improvement.
Research Division</strong> So 70 basis points doesn't change the earnings picture but it takes the risk factor off your Life in the run off pieces? Exactly.
And we'll take our next question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> One question on Hardy and that is the net to gross.
You've reported 4 quarters the number seems to be kind of all over the place.
It was much higher than the past 3 quarters.
Can you offer any guidance of what that number might look like going forward? Is the second quarter a reasonable number to look at? I think we kind of expect the net to gross to be something like 70% going forward on a normal kind of run rate.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Okay.
That's what I have in the model so that's good.
Secondly I guess just a follow-up on Glass' question who I do think is crazy most of the time by the way.
I'm sure I will hear from him later.
The run-off business.
Clearly you've been at least examining ways of permanently reducing your exposure to this business.
And obviously the conditions have not been conducive to doing a deal.
I know structurally there's some challenges as well.
But do higher interest rates make a difference in formulating potentially at some point some sort of transaction that could eliminate that exposure? Well I think the higher interest rates help in every regard Jay.
They help the outlook for the business itself in a meaningful way first and foremost and naturally they would also make any transaction more attractive.
Research Division</strong> I assume you're not getting any closer on such a transaction versus what you've said in the past? No.
We don't have anything to really talk about.
I mean we don't -- we make a point of not speaking about future capital actions.
But I don't have anything to tell you about or offer.
[Operator Instructions] And it appears there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Thank you.
We'll see you next time.
And this concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jessica.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2013 third quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com under the Investor Relations menu.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom's and Craig's remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday October 28 2013.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
I am pleased to report that the trend of consistently improving financial performance continued through the third quarter.
Last quarter I talked about our margin improvement our disciplined underwriting pricing and expense management actions and our meaningful rate attainment.
Each of these trends has continued in the third quarter and the impact is evident in our bottom line results.
CNA produced operating income of $269 million an increase of 25% compared with the third quarter of 2012.
Operating ROE was 9% for the quarter and 8% year-to-date.
Our Property &amp; Casualty calendar year combined ratio was 94% for the quarter a 5.7 point improvement from the third quarter of 2012.
We believe our concerted efforts to actively manage our Property &amp; Casualty portfolio are clearly having a positive impact.
Our underlying underwriting margin as defined by the combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development has now improved 3.8 points on a year-to-date basis as compared with full year 2012 reflecting material improvement in our loss ratios.
Our Specialty business had an outstanding third quarter with a combined ratio of 85.3.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 93.5.
Net written premium growth was 8%.
Rate was 6% and retention remained constant at 85%.
The Commercial combined ratio was 103 which included 2.9 points of catastrophes.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 99.3.
Third quarter rate at 8% was strong.
Revenue and retention is in line with our expectations as we continue to build and manage a profitable book of business with attractive growth prospects.
Hardy reported net operating income of $12 million in the third quarter with a combined ratio of 85.1.
And excluding catastrophes and development it was 84.6.
Net written premiums grew 45% to $81 million.
I'm now going to turn the call over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Before I get into the results let me again remind you that presentation slides have been posted on our website to provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
Third quarter net operating income improved to $269 million a 25% increase over the prior year period which produced an operating return on equity of 9%.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $1 per share up from $0.80 per share in the third quarter of 2012.
Net income was $272 million or $1.01 per share which also compares favorably to the prior year period.
We are encouraged by the improved underwriting margin generated across our core P&amp;C businesses reflecting targeted underwriting actions and continued strong rate increases.
Our core P&amp;C operations produced net operating income of $330 million in the third quarter up 25% as compared with the prior year period.
Improved non-cat accident year underwriting results drove the increase.
Our third quarter loss ratio for P&amp;C operations was 60.9% 4.5 points better than last year's third quarter.
Excluding catastrophes and development the loss ratio was 62.8% a more than 3.5 point improvement over last year's third quarter.
However we believe that comparing year-to-date loss ratio performance with results for the full prior year is a better measure of our progress and the quarter-over-quarter comparison.
On that basis our 2013 year-to-date loss ratio excluding cats and development of 64.7% is now 3 points better than full year 2012.
Our third quarter expense ratio was 32.9% consistent with our second quarter reported result and more than 1 point better than full year 2012.
This reflects expense reductions enhanced productivity and the growth in earned premium.
Improving our expense competitiveness continues to be a major focus for us.
Specialty's third quarter net operating income improved to $187 million from $136 million in last year's third quarter with a combined ratio of 85.3%.
Specialty's results benefited from just under 10 points of favorable development.
Excluding catastrophes and development Specialty's loss ratio was 63.8% more than 3.5 points lower than last year's third quarter.
The year-to-date loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development of 65.5% is more than 2 points better than full year 2012.
The improvement has been driven by both the rate achievement and targeted underwriting actions that continue to refine the portfolio of mix.
The Specialty expense ratio improved more than 1.5 points year-over-year to 29.4%.
Commercial's third quarter net operating income increased to $131 million up 5% from the prior year period.
Excluding catastrophes and development the Commercial loss ratio was 64.2% an improvement of more than 3 points over last year's third quarter.
On a year-to-date basis the loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 66.3% an improvement of over 2 points versus full year 2012.
Rate and retention trends as shown in the presentation slides on Page 9 reflect our disciplined risk selection and strong rate achievement.
Commercial has attained 8% written rate this quarter following 9% in each of the first 2 quarters of 2013.
Retention of 71% in the third quarter is reflective of targeted underwriting actions on portions of the portfolio.
As shown in the slide on Page 10 these underwriting actions had a 4-point impact on retention in the quarter and a 3-point impact year-to-date.
Hardy made a meaningful contribution to earnings this quarter with a calendar year combined ratio of 85.1%.
Hardy's combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was just under 85% reflecting superior loss ratios and an improving expense ratio.
Our Non-Core Life &amp; Group segment produced a $35 million operating loss in the quarter primarily due to higher long-term care morbidity modestly offset by the effect of rate increase actions and a favorable persistency in that business.
Our corporate segment reported a $26 million third quarter net operating loss unchanged from the prior year period.
Our balance sheet continues to reflect CNA's financial strength and stability.
Our capital adequacy metrics remain at or above our targeted levels and our liquidity profile remains very strong.
Book value per common share increased to $45.06 per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income book value was $44.64 per common share.
Both measures are up just under 2% from the end of the second quarter.
Our investment portfolio's pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $2.2 billion at quarter end a decrease of approximately $350 million from the end of the second quarter 2013.
Approximately $250 million of the decline's impact on book value was offset by a decrease in Shadow reserves related to our Life &amp; Group runoff business.
In addition as I've noted before while the increase in interest rates had an adverse impact on our unrealized gain position during the quarter at current reinvestment rate levels it should have a favorable effect on earnings going forward.
Our statutory surplus at quarter end was $10.4 billion up nearly 2% from the end of the second quarter.
This was after a $100 million dividend paid to the holding company during the third quarter.
We continue to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $500 million at quarter end well above our 1 year annual net corporate obligations target.
Our liquidity profile also includes a $250 million revolving credit facility as well as access to over $325 million of additional liquidity from Continental Casualties recently completed membership with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago.
In the third quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was approximately $340 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay-downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $680 million.
Net investment income was $597 million pretax in the third quarter.
Income from our fixed maturity securities was $504 million pretax essentially unchanged from the prior-year period.
Income from Lyttelton Partnership investments was $93 million up 18% from this year's second quarter and 4% from the prior year period.
The third quarter 2013 rate of return for our limited partnerships was 3.5%.
While our overall portfolio allocation did not change significantly in the third quarter we did continue to take advantage of attractive yield opportunities in the tax-exempt municipal bond market.
The investment grade corporate bond sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Fixed income assets which support our long-duration life-like liabilities had an effective duration of 11.4 years at quarter end a slight increase from the prior year -- from the prior quarter end and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.4 years at quarter end up from 4.3 years at the end of the second quarter.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well-diversified liquid high-quality and aligned with our business objectives.
Before turning the call back to Tom I did want to encourage you to get involved in the current debate about insurance accounting standards and the changes proposed by both the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the International Accounting Standards Board.
While there is some theoretical merit in several individual aspects of the proposed update the practical effect if adopted would significantly increase complexity reduce transparency provide less meaningful financial reporting results and make comparability between periods and peers exceedingly difficult if not impossible.
The proposed models would require significant changes in operational and actuarial processes that would be extremely coiffed to implement difficult to maintain and are not consistent with how we manage the business.
While comment letters were due last Friday October 25 the FASB has indicated an openness to consider comments beyond that date.
Your opinion as investors and analysts carries considerable weight with the members of these boards.
If you don't take the time to express your opinion others will decide for you.
Tom? Thank you Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to close with some highlights.
We are especially encouraged by our continued progress in our Property &amp; Casualty portfolio.
Specifically growth in customer segments and products reduced exposure in classes outside our appetite and strong targeted rate achievement.
Our 2013 year-to-date loss ratio excluding cats and development of 64.7 is 3 points better than full year 2012.
Our expense ratio remain just under 33% in the third quarter down from 34% at year end 2012.
We have solid investment results and improved capital position and our book value per share excluding AOCI has increased 4.7% since the beginning of the year.
Lastly we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.20.
With that we'd be glad to take your questions.
.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Just 2 quick questions.
First is on Hardy looking at Slide 11 of the slide deck the loss ratio excluding cats and development is there a reason why that number moves around quite a bit from one quarter to another? Yes just remember Amit that it's -- that they are property -- first part of property related -- predominant I should say company and underwriter.
So those results are going to be affected by outcomes within the quarter could be affected less a lot by changes in attritional results could be affected by changes in some variability in large results.
Also obviously could be affected by some change in our in [indiscernible] terms of the outcomes.
So all those things are intertwined with the decisions made about the quarter.
I guess what I was trying to ask is it jumped from I think 36.5% to 40% and I understand you said that don't look at quarters look at the year-to-date.
But was there a reason for that increase to 40% in this quarter? Well you look at the quarter before was 47.3%.
So it was down 7 points and the quarter before that was 51%.
So it's down 11.5% from that.
So I wouldn't get hung up on change in the quarter.
Just means there was a slightly higher level of large losses in this quarter than there was in the third quarter of 2013.
I still think that's a very attractive loss ratio to be producing.
Got it.
And then what sort of a normalized number would you think exiting out all the noise? I don't think you should be looking for a normalized number there given that there's going to be some noise in those results.
Okay that's fair enough.
The only other question and I'll stop and requeue is going back to the discussion I guess on the Non-Core assets.
And -- can you talk a bit about the profitability metrics on the payout annuity business? And maybe also address there was recently a story which talked about that business.
Can you just expand on that a bit? But we don't -- there's really no profitability metrics in specifically that we have disclosed on payout annuity.
You could see within the Life Group segment you know that it's about -- that business has about $2.7 billion of reserves.
That's -- I mean stat surplus that's associated with that is disclosed.
But beyond that we don't have any comment about the press reports.
.
We'll go next to Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Yes a couple of questions.
This first one is the Federal Home Loan Bank news.
What is the rationale behind that action? It just simply gives us additional flexibility capital management flexibility Jay.
So it's a relatively inexpensive source of liquidity.
Research Division</strong> And I assume it doesn't bring on any other regulatory burden? No.
Research Division</strong> Okay second question I guess if I look at Commercial lines and Specialty the underlying accident year loss ratio improved quite nicely from the first 3 quarters of the year.
And clearly you've been taking appropriate action to drive that.
Is there anything that you can see unusual in the quarter a low level of property losses a low level of non-cat weather losses that may have helped that number more than we would expect? Well I think what maybe just -- it's just the math probably more than anything Jay.
So that's why we were pointing everybody to the year-to-date numbers because as we have been -- as we said before as we earn the rate in excess of trend we've been recognized that as we're kind of marching forward.
So right now overall the loss ratio P&amp;C total was 3 points on a year-to-date basis better.
But as we would then readjust that for the quarter there's a 3 quarter catch-up.
So essentially those loss ratios has just looked at for the quarter about 2 points lower than the run rate is.
So I think that's probably what's surprising you.
.
We'll go next to Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk about normalized run rates for the expense ratio of the company excluding Hardy and then normalized run rate expense ratio for Hardy.
And how much time it will take you to get to those levels in your mind.
Well I think the Hardy adds only about half a point to the total company's expense ratio.
So...
Research Division</strong> But it skews things.
It's easier to talk about x Hardy I guess.
That's my thinking.
So it's a half-point lower x Hardy.
Hardy 44 you can see it's come down considerably over the course of the year and I mean that is the normalized today.
Although I'd tell you Hardy management has suggested overtime the target would be something closer to 40 which is would be in line with Lloyds peers.
But that'll take us some time to get there.
Research Division</strong> A year 2 years? That sounds reasonable enough.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And for the rest of the company I guess on a trailing 12-month basis you're around a 32.6.
The other quarter was at 31.9 this is excluding Hardy.
Was that at near-normal or do you think that will be going lower? Well I think that for the quarter it was 32.9 right so take half a point off I'd say 32.5.
I wouldn't expect -- given the actions we've taken and also the actions we're taking on the underwriting side in Commercial don't expect any real change in that through the rest of this year.
Like what we mentioned last quarter's call was that we did have actions that we've already taken or in the process of being taken to improve that further in '14.
Research Division</strong> And did you guys have an internal target that you would share with us or it's not really a target number? No we don't have an internal target but we did -- I think -- we have said before that the run rate today is about -- used to be 2 or 3 points higher than peers.
It's now 1 to 2 points higher than peers and certainly we need to get it to be equal to peers to eliminate that disadvantage.
At least my...
We'll go next to Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> A couple of different questions.
I mean it's great to see the loss ratio core loss ratio coming down.
Could you talk about some of the underlying trends in the key markets professional liability workers' comp excess liability? I mean what's the I guess general loss trend just from a number standpoint? But even underlying we just continue to see not a lot of core cases or anyway you can illuminate would be helpful.
Well I think that you ought to -- maybe Tom want to add some color here but just see.
The loss trend that we assume long term in Commercial lines is around 4% and a loss trend that we expect longer term in Specialty professional and management liability is more like 3%.
Now obviously there are differences inside that.
Maybe you can -- let's go line by line pick a line and we can talk about it.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
What about workers' comp? Okay.
So if you look at workers' comp we have a couple of key strategies: the first is #1 we're looking by geography so that we tend to avoid those states that really have adverse results; #2 we are moving much more into what we would call white-collar workers' comp which runs at much better loss ratios than what we call the blue collar kind of business.
We continue to get strong rate increases in workers' comp just under 10%.
So the fact is we're pushing rate we're re-profiling the book.
All of that is going to impact the loss ratio over time.
So we're pretty pleased with the direction on that.
And clearly the written rate is turning into earned rate increases which exceed as Craig mentioned the loss trend; so margin improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How about professional liability? Professional liability we continue to get significant rate increases on our D&amp;O business just under 10% and as Craig said loss trends are more in the 3 to 4 range.
So once again margin improvement there.
E&amp;O we would find that rate increases exceed the loss trends there as well and those are big part of the book.
So once again I think we can point to almost any line and see that we continue to earn very good written rate increases and that's turning into earned rate increases in excess of loss trends.
So all of them are improving.
Research Division</strong> And a different topic.
As far as growth you have some core targeted areas.
Do you think you'd be able to have growth next year given the market environment? Yes we think we can grow.
We think we have some differentiated product and strategies in the 7 segments as we call them and they are all doing very well.
In fact new business today is 74% of the total coming from those areas; on an overall basis it's 72% of the book.
Those numbers continue to climb so we continue to push those.
So yes we like the segments.
We think they are performing pretty well.
And we expect to get growth and we're getting really good rate increases in those areas.
So if you look at something like package we're doing very well in the package business.
So I'd say yes we expect it to continue.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally -- I mean you're generating a nice level of cash flow.
You've got some expanded cash capability.
How are you thinking about uses of cash as we go into 2014? Well that's something that we'll reconsider are going to step back as we come to the fourth quarter Adam more likely and that's more the normal time to kind of reassess the accumulation of cash and capital and reset expectations for going forward.
We'll go next to Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just following-up on Adam's question on capital you've traditionally been a quarterly dividend payer.
Would a special dividend at all be a possibility of something you'd consider the board would consider? I think we get asked that question every quarter and we say we would prefer to do something with the quarterly dividend.
That's our strategy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're saying the fourth quarter is when you review where your annual dividend is.
So what Craig's comment suggested? You want to get through the fourth quarter? Yes that's when we look at it.
You're correct.
And we will look at it again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could you quantify what the adverse morbidity in long-term care in the quarter was and what drove that? Well it was both individual and just increased claim frequency in the long-term care business both group and individual mainly individual.
So that's just increased frequency of claims.
We saw it both this quarter and in the second.
If you recall in the first quarter morbidity was way down driven by really improved mortality across all the businesses.
So we've seen an increased level each of the last 2 quarters and that's what's kind of pushed that losses up from the 20s range to the mid-30s range.
Research Division</strong> So a $15 million after-tax sort of swing from that? Because you said that there were some positive things that offset that so could it be more than that? No that's reasonable.
Bob there is also so much other lumpiness in that business.
Remember we had this viatical settlements business it kind of depends on individual debt from the quarter that drive a little variability there.
But that's -- the math that you just did is a reasonable quantification of the impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe walk us through what pricing that you're getting on that book.
You mentioned there is an offset in positive consideration.
We have filed for price increases of about 40% of the book over the -- that came off of rate guarantee over the last year and we filed for rate increases ranging from 0 to 80%.
We're probably about halfway through the states and have been working with state regulators on that.
We're certainly not achieving or getting all of that or getting a good portion of that.
But it does -- I just cautioned you it takes a considerable amount of time and I guess take that 40% against about $550 million of net written premium that we would generate on an annual basis.
But that 40% takes a long -- or that percentage takes a long time to be approved and then implemented authorized and then implemented.
It's about an 18-month I'd say transition period before you see it.
Research Division</strong> Any rough guesstimate on just how much has been earned today 5 to 10 or...
That's actually very reasonable.
Good guess.
We'll go next to Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
LLC</strong> I just had a couple of questions.
I'm taking a look at the CNA Commercial production metrics the rate and retention chart.
And the retention in the small business obviously it's slid fairly significantly in the last few quarters as rates have -- that you've gotten have steepened.
Are you going to sort of modify your approach to small business? I'm sort of really sort of getting at what do you think of the 73% retention in small business Commercial? And I know it's obviously has to be looked at in the context of 11% which is quite good.
I think Ron our objective here is to make this a profitable book.
We are pushing rate very hard.
We are I would say becoming more selective on the types of business we want to write whether that be by geography or whether it be by line of business.
So clearly there is underwriting action as we like to describe it going on in small.
But we think that's necessary to get to a more profitable book and that's the plan.
So I don't think the retentions that far out of line with what we're doing on the underwriting side.
LLC</strong> And Tom or Craig is the slide from 80% to 73% is that really sort of all your doing the company's doing or is there some element of competition contributing to that slide? I would say it's all us.
LLC</strong> And should I assume by virtue of the steepness of the rate increases and the slide in retention for small business of those 4 buckets small middle international and other small has been sort of the biggest unfavorable contributor to the -- basically you're running about 100 combined in this segment Commercial is small business sort of the biggest problem of the 4 buckets? Well I think clearly that's a business that's over 100 today.
We have to get that down.
But you could find other things that affect the result.
Obviously the areas that we've exited were all Commercial-related and we have addressed those.
We're addressing small in a different way.
We want to be in the small business but that's more of a fix.
And then you know you can look at a particular line like automobile and workers' comp which are not a specific plague to CNA but really the industry and we're getting kind of double-digit auto reps and workers' comp is a little less than double digit.
So those are businesses we want to be in and we're going to fix them.
And I think you're seeing that around the industry.
I don't think anybody else has said they're delighted with their auto results.
LLC</strong> I'm sorry but is small business currently running at the highest combined ratio of those 4 categories? No it's not at the highest.
It's probably but it's -- of the ongoing core segments it's at the moment at least producing the least profitable results and need some improvement as Tom said.
LLC</strong> All right.
Moving on just one other question.
I think if my memory serves me right ROI -- I think I don't want to say it was last week made mention of the increasing number of competitors in the Surety line.
And I was just wondering whether you are seeing that similarly as ROI commented? Yes I -- we're not seeing that here.
We got a great Surety business highly profitable.
It's got a unique position in the marketplace.
And I think the Surety business for the industry is down a little bit just because of the lack of construction in the U.S.
So the fact of the matter is we've done pretty well on the growth side in Surety while others were -- had negative growth where we're now slightly under 0 but I think we've weathered the storm pretty well and it's a great business.
And we're definitely committed to making it grow when it's the right time.
[Operator Instructions] At this time we'll go next to Scott Frost with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on the accounting that you mentioned.
It seems like FASB is pretty adamant on trying to get something done here and despite protests from both preparers and consumers of the statements.
What do you think it would take for FASB to say maybe this is just a bad idea.
What do you think would have to happen for them to reevaluate this and from where you think that pressure would come? Well I think they're -- I think they're certainly hearing from preparers.
I think which is the reason I mentioned it I think if more users of the financial statements both analysts and investors weighed in I think that carries more weight than a user might sound like we're complaining about it.
Now we've been active in -- with industry groups.
We've been active -- we've planned kind of meetings with FASB.
We have regular communications with them.
I think you'd be surprised at how if you pick up the phone and ask to drive up to Stamford to meet with them they don't have that many people come actually talk to them.
And you'd be surprised how influential you could be if you decided to weigh in and have a conversation and are certainly in that be a follow-up by writing your own letter to them.
I think all of those things have an impact.
Research Division</strong> Right we've seen that and we understand they say that you complain.
They typically -- or at least in the past what's happened is when the debates turned pretty acrimonious.
They accuse investors of kind of having an agenda as well and without a trace of irony say that we are conflicted.
But it seems that this debate has been going on for a long time so what it sounds like you're saying is that keep at it and it'll register.
Is that fair to say? I'd say ratchet it up and it'll register.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
One other thing on that and a related note.
At least on the fixed income side the sentiment I sense is pretty much overwhelmingly negative.
But some investors are reluctant to register opinions because they don't want to be seen as speaking for their institution on accounting matters.
How have you advised your investment professionals on the fixed income side for example to register their opinions on this issue? I'm not -- you mean as investors? Research Division</strong> Yes.
I would advise them on the same basis.
It's just difficult that if the changes were implemented it would be very difficult for you to assess cash flows it'd be difficult for you to assess when real impairments credit impairments happen and differentiate them from some averaging that's being done by some model that you're going to have to peek through about umpteen layers of assumptions to figure out what's really happening.
So I'd say absolutely the same arguments.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And last question.
Have you -- do you have any kind of estimate as to how much the new rules would cost you in terms of preparation? And also more importantly what do you think the effect will be on your cost of capital? Is there any way to quantify that? And that's it.
It's tough to quantify cost of capital and we haven't really assessed implementation.
But it would be meaningful.
That would be a meaningful reordering of all of our calculations and internal systems.
We don't capture as they're suggesting like when you quote start generating exposure and earning premium and [indiscernible] -- well we don't have anything set up to do those kind of things nor do we have systems that go to what seems to be suggested at portfolio level how they might divide at portfolio level for defining how we would reserve and how we'd assess and it would require a bunch of different models and things here.
But it would be a considerable number and definitely have an effect.
And I don't -- on the cost of capital it's difficult difficult to say.
And we go back to Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
I guess 2 quick follow-up questions going back to I guess Ron's question on pricing.
If you sort of broadly look at pricing in the Commercial and Specialty line what do you think about pricing sustainability for 2014 especially based on the meaningful rates which you have gotten in the past? Yes you never know what's going to happen that far out but I would say this: number one I think in general the property business you'll probably see rates fall a little bit because it is a short-tail business and it's been pretty quiet from a catastrophe standpoint.
So I would expect property will become a little bit more competitive now.
How you interpret that is is that on the renewal book or is that on new business.
But clearly I think you might see a change there.
I think casualty pricing needs to go up.
So whether you are looking at the Specialty lines which are volatile you can have an event and quite honestly you got to put some money in the bank for those types of events.
And I think if you look at the casualty lines in the Commercial space whether it be general liability umbrella; auto you are seeing pretty significant auto increases at least we are too.
So that would be kind of directionally the way I see it.
What's kind of interesting is we tend to look at things a lot more micro than you do.
So if I look at Commercial month-to-month September was the best month in Commercial in the quarter.
It was higher than July and August.
And if you look at Specialty it was right on every month was kind of the same number.
So the fact is specialties continues to be very consistent and I think there is probably some upside there.
And I think on Commercial we went from 9 to 8.
That's not a poor result.
And I think September looked pretty good.
So we believe there is still rate taking to be out there and we're seeing it in lines like package which is a big part of the Commercial space.
That pricing is very strong.
So we are optimistic but it's a long way out year end 2014.
Got it that's helpful.
And then secondly just going back to the discussion on capital and thanks Bob for asking that question.
Maybe we are looking at this wrong perhaps is building out the franchise more important for you right now than I guess looking at means to return capital? Are we not on the same page there when we ask the same question every quarter? No I don't think that's the case Amit.
So everything's on.
We are quite aware of and sensitive to ROEs and improving operating ROEs.
So we're looking at all the components of the business.
I think what we've said to you past is just that we consider all the options.
We've just told you what our bias is and that's -- so that's our thinking so that you got to understand our bias understand the deliberateness of the pace at which we've done things and then I hope you would appreciate that.
Of course we are sensitive to everything and we're considering everything.
I do appreciate that clarification.
And just finally on I guess going back to my question on the payout annuity book what's the tail on that -- on the reserves? What's the -- can you just talk a bit about that? It's a mid-teens duration maybe a little longer than that.
Got it.
And then - and I guess if you look at that book can you talk about the impact I guess on policyholder behavior based on the improvement in rates? Just that book separately.
How...
That because has -- no that book is in runoff.
Those prices and those premiums have been paid.
There is 0 impact on income coming out of that book.
So all the rate increases we've talked about are the long -- are the health business the individual long-term care.
None of that relates to the payout annuity business.
I guess I was asking about the impact of interest rate on the payout annuity book.
It's relatively -- well it does have an effect but it's extremely well-matched in terms of asset and liability duration.
So any effect is very much on the margin.
Okay that's helpful.
And if there is a spike in the rates do policyholders take their money out? How does that happen? No they've already -- they are paid.
These are annuity so they're paid there.
They paid a premium and we are matching an income stream to the premiums paid.
So there's really no optionality in that business.
We'll go next to -- we'll go back to Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick follow-up.
Could you guys give us an idea on the favorable development in Specialty just general ballpark? What proportion of the reserve releases came from say maybe the '03 through '07 versus the '08 through 2012? That was actually in terms of all surety and it's tenant [indiscernible].
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
LLC</strong> I guess the problem with the quarterly question on the capital is more about Bob Glasspiegel's memory and not the -- must be on the wrong page.
I just had a follow-up question on Surety.
I just wanted just to sort of confirm something.
You -- I understand there are some problems in the Spanish surety market and I just wanted to sort of confirm that you do not write there.
You're surety book is all U.S.
or substantially all U.S.
is that right? That's correct.
Our surety book is all North America.
And that was our last question.
This does conclude our question-and-answer session for today.
At this time I will turn the call back to Tom Motamed with any closing or additional remarks.
Thank you.
See you next quarter.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tim.
Good morning and welcome to the CNA’s discussion of our 2013 fourth quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides which provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com under the Investor Relations menu.
With us on this morning’s call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom’s and Craig’s remarks about our quarterly and full year results we will open it up to your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there maybe forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday February 10 2014.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q as well as in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us.
CNA’s fourth quarter provided a strong finish to a good year.
Adjusted operating income was $336 million the highest quarterly operating income in 20 years.
Adjusted operating return on equity was 11%.
We are very proud to announce that we have raised our quarterly dividend by 25% to $0.25 per share and also declared a special dividend of $1 per share.
This is the third year in a row that we have increased our dividend and is a testament to our financial strength and stability.
On a reported basis CNA produced operating income of $213 million and an operating return on equity of 7%.
Results for our corporate non-core segment include a $123 million non-economic charge related to the accounting applied to the 2010 loss portfolio transfer of our legacy asbestos and environmental pollution liabilities to National Indemnity Company.
Craig will say more about this in his remarks.
For the full year operating income was $917 million and net income was $937 million excluding the loss portfolio transfer accounting impact both net and operating income were above $1 billion.
By either measure CNA’s results were significantly better than in 2012.
As you may have seen today we announced the sale of our life insurance company to a subsidiary of Wilton Re.
This transaction when completed will reduce our Life &amp; Group gross GAAP reserves by $3.4 billion or 25% and dispose of the vast majority of CNA’s payout annuity business.
Now let me provide you with some details on our core business.
Our Property &amp; Casualty calendar year combined ratio was 95% for the quarter over a 21 point improvement from the Sandy impacted fourth quarter of 2012.
Our Property &amp; Casualty underwriting margin for the full year as defined by the combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development has improved about 5 points compared with full year 2012.
This includes an approximate 4 point improvement in our loss ratio and just under a 1 point improvement in our expense ratio.
Our Specialty business had another outstanding quarter with a combined ratio of 77.4.
Excluding catastrophes and development the full year combined ratio was 94.2% compared with 99.3% for 2012 more than a five point improvement.
Net written premium growth for the quarter was 5%.
Rates increased 5% for the quarter and retention was 85% for both the quarter and year.
The commercial combined ratio for the quarter was 111.8% and included 11.5 points of adverse development.
Excluding catastrophes and development the full year combined ratio was 100.4% compared to 104.1% for 2012 almost a four point improvement.
Rates increased 7% in the quarter and net return premium declined 3%.
Hardy reported net operating income of $8 million in the fourth quarter with a combined ratio of 90.1% or 91% excluding catastrophes and development.
Full year combined ratios were 93.4% and 89.8% respectively.
Hardy’s fourth quarter net written premium grew 16% excluding the impact of the commutation with 2012 year of accounts third party capital provider.
I am now going to turn the call over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Our reported financial results were significantly affected by the accounting for the increase in our ultimate loss reserve estimates for Asbestos and Pollution and the related recovery of those losses through our reinsurance agreement with National Indemnity Company.
There is a description on Slides 15 and 22 of the earnings presentation that we hope will be helpful to you.
As you may recall in 2010 we transferred our legacy Asbestos and Environmental Pollution liabilities to NICO through a retroactive reinsurance transaction.
At that time we ceded approximately $1.6 billion of net liabilities and paid NICO approximately $2.2 billion for reinsurance contract with a $4 billion aggregate limit.
Over the past four years the ceded liabilities have developed adversely.
In the fourth quarter the cumulative ceded loss has exceeded the consideration paid putting CNA in a gain position on the contract.
GAAP requires that a portion of gains from retroactive reinsurance must be deferred.
These deferred gains will be subsequently recognized in future periods as ceded paid losses increase.
While the accounting negatively affected our reported results during the current period by $123 million after tax there is no cash nor economic impact.
Excluding the accounting for the retroactive reinsurance contract with NICO our fourth quarter 2013 net operating income of $336 million and net income was $344 million.
On an adjusted basis we generated over $1 billion of operating income over the full year 2013 a 77% increase as compared to 2012.
Operating income available to common shareholders was $1.24 per share excluding the LPT accounting impact and $0.79 per share on a reported basis.
Our core P&amp;C operations produced net operating income of $340 million in the fourth quarter 2013 and $1.2 billion for the full year up significantly as compared with fourth quarter and full year 2012.
Improved accident year underwriting results and limited partnership returns drove the increases.
Our fourth quarter 2013 loss ratio for P&amp;C operations was 62% almost 19 points better than last year’s fourth quarter.
Excluding catastrophes and development the loss ratio was 61.3% a seven point improvement over last year’s fourth quarter.
The full year loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development of 63.8% was approximately four points better than 2012.
Our fourth quarter expense ratio was 32.8%.
The full year 2013 expense ratio was 33.1% which compares favorably to the 34% expense ratio for the full year 2012.
This decrease reflects real expense reductions enhanced productivity and the growth in earned premium.
Specialty’s fourth quarter 2013 net operating income improved to $232 million from $130 million in last year’s fourth quarter with a combined ratio of 77.4%.
Specialty’s results benefited from 13 points of favorable development reflecting improved estimates across a broad range of product lines for the years 2010 and prior.
Excluding catastrophes and development Specialty’s loss ratio was 59.8% 9 points lower than last year’s fourth quarter.
The full year 2013 loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development of 64% is almost 4 points better than what we reported in 2012.
The improvement was driven by both rate achievement and targeted underwriting actions that continued to refine the portfolio mix.
Commercial’s fourth quarter 2013 net operating income was $100 million.
This compares to a $44 million loss reported in the prior year period.
Excluding catastrophes and development the commercial loss ratio was 65.2% an improvement of 4 points over last year’s fourth quarter.
On a full year basis the loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 66% an improvement of just under 3 points as compared to 2012.
Tom referenced 11.5 points of unfavorable development in commercial.
This was primarily driven by auto and general liability reserves strengthening in recent accident years.
The changes to auto estimates reflects an increase in claim frequency while the general liability changes reflect an increase in severity for both small and middle markets business.
Slide 12 provides detail of our prior and revised loss ratio estimates for commercial lines.
Our Non-Core Life &amp; Group segment produced $13 million of net operating income in the quarter which is significantly better than the prior year results.
The fourth quarter 2012 results included $44 million after-tax of payout annuity and long-term care reserve charges.
The current quarter result includes a $22 million non-recurring benefit.
The favorable effect of rate increases in the quarter was offset by unfavorable morbidity.
Our Corporate segment reported a $140 million net operating loss in the fourth quarter of 2013 driven by the $123 million impact of the retroactive reinsurance accounting.
Both periods benefited from a modest amount of favorable loss reserve development recognized in our CNA Re and other P&amp;C runoff portfolios.
Our balance sheet continues to reflect CAN’s financial strength and stability.
This strength and stability as well as our current earnings outlook are reflected in our Board’s decision to increase the current common shareholder dividend by 25% and declared the $1 per share special dividend.
We believe today’s announcement of the sale of Continental Assurance Company is a big positive for CNA.
It meaningfully reduces risk in our Non-Core Life &amp; Group operations and further simplifies our operations.
It is currently expected that the transaction will result in net proceeds of approximately $650 million inclusive of tax benefits.
A portion of which will be received in the form of a dividend from Continental Assurance Company immediately prior to closing.
Anticipated net proceeds are slightly higher than the life company’s December 31 2013 statutory capital and surplus of $597 million.
The closing of the transaction remains subject to customary closing conditions and certain regulatory approvals and is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2014.
Book value per share increased 4% in the fourth quarter to $46.91 per share.
Year-over-year book value per share increased 3%.
Excluding accumulated other comprehensive income book value was $45.26 per share up 6% from year end 2012.
Our investment portfolio’s pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $1.9 billion at quarter end a decrease of approximately $225 million in the end of the third quarter of 2013.
Our statutory surplus at quarter end was $11.1 billion up more than 7% from the end of the third quarter.
A decrease in our pension liabilities driven by the change in the discount rate contributed meaningfully to this growth.
These numbers do reflect $100 million dividend paid to the holding company during the fourth quarter.
We continue to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash in short-term investments at the holding company were approximately $500 million at quarter end.
In the fourth quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was approximately $300 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $800 million.
Net investment income was an especially strong $642 million pretax in the fourth quarter.
Income from limited partnership investments was $148 million up more than 120% from the prior year period.
The full year 2013 rate of return from our limited partnerships was 18%.
Income from our fixed maturity securities in the fourth quarter was $497 million pretax essentially unchanged from the prior year period.
Slide 18 provides a further description of our net investment income.
You will note that our after tax income from our fixed maturity securities actually increased quarter-over-quarter reflective of our overall portfolio shift to pretax exempt investments.
While our overall portfolio allocations did not change significantly in the fourth quarter we did continue to take advantage of opportunities in the tax exempt municipal bond market.
The investment grade corporate bond sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Fixed income assets that support our long duration life like liabilities at an effective duration of 11.3 years at quarter end a slight decrease from the prior quarter end and in line with portfolio targets.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.4 years at quarter end equal to the third quarter.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to close with some highlights.
Our 2013 net and operating income were both above $1 billion excluding the loss portfolio transfer accounting impact.
Our 2013 combined ratio excluding tax and development improved almost five points compared with the 2012 results.
Rates on our portfolio increased approximately 7% for the year.
We are pleased that the commercial rate increases were over 8% and that specialty rates were up 6%.
Net written premiums were up 6% for the year.
We have solid investment results and our book value per share excluding AOCI has increased 6.2% since the beginning of the year.
We raised our quarterly dividend for the third consecutive year and declared a special dividend of $1 per share.
With that we would be glad to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes thank you.
I guess a couple of questions on the sale of the life company can you talk about the earnings impact of the sale of that business.
We don’t really see what that business had been earning or losing and that’s the first question? This is Craig Jay.
Good morning.
The life business returns have been pretty uneven and I would say relatively low.
You recall that last year we took a charge actually each of the last two years substantial – took a pretty substantial charge to unlock our assumptions payout annuity business last year that amount was in the $20 some million plus after tax year before was $100 million after tax.
The normal run rate assuming that we wouldn’t be getting any reserve charges with something in the order of say $20 million there has been $20 million or so after tax.
Per year? Yes.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
And then secondly what is the plan for the proceeds of the sale? Well just keep in mind that the company was overcapitalized and that the statutory capital in that company rolled up to CCC’s capital.
So it was used and considered in our overall capital base.
So $600 million plus of proceeds shouldn’t be the actual freed up capital it’s something more in the order of little north of $200 million.
So we don’t have any plan for that now.
That is something that we consider when it closes.
We consider that along with our current earnings and the outlook for earnings as we move forward.
Got it.
Good problem to have anyway.
And then the last the special dividend I mean other than just being a nice round number of $1 what went behind the thinking of the size of the special dividend? I don’t – nothing particularly matched but I think what I would want you to takeaway from it is just simply that it’s a testament to the financial strength and stability of the company that we have more than adequate capital to support the business to absorb the risks in the business and to support the growth of it forward that we had an excellent earnings year this year and quarter this quarter that we looked around at each other and talked to the Board and looked to the amount of earnings and did not have any first what would be if we had an opportunity to deploy it into the business we did not.
So we chose to return it to shareholders.
Got it.
Thanks for the answers.
You are welcome.
And we will take our next question from Amit Kumar with Macquarie Capital.
Thanks and good morning and congrats on the quarter and disposition and I guess the capital management actions.
A lot is going on there.
So it’s pretty good.
The first question I have is a follow-up to the last question.
Now that you have I guess achieved several of the milestones you had set out to achieve in terms of capital management in terms of the disposition of the payout book how would you sort of outline the next steps for you in this franchise? Is it more so a focus on the core book? Is it using the capital to grow via acquisitions or is it something in terms of focusing on what else could be done I guess on the long-term care book? Why don’t I start Amit.
Good morning I think number one we continue to proceed with improving our core business.
We are focused on that.
We think there is more upside relative to improving margins.
We continue to be encouraged by what we are doing on the rate side as compared to loss trend.
So we will continue to push to improve the core businesses.
So that’s number one.
We have said for a long time that if there is something out there that makes sense we maybe interested.
We did that by buying the remainder of CNA Surety.
We did that with Hardy but we are going to be very judicious in what we look at because it has to be something that contributes to better margins over time.
So those are our immediate focus today.
And I don’t think we have changed our message.
It has been very consistent for the last five years.
We are just seeing the fruits of our labor starting to show up and we are pleased with that but this is not over we have more work to do.
And now Craig you might want to comment about some of the other businesses.
Yes Amit just so it’s all the things you said.
You know we have been deliberate in our actions.
And as Tom said I think we have behaved consistently with what we have told you or the messages we have given you.
So we need to do all of those things you have said.
First and foremost we need to continue to improve the operating earnings power and consistently of the P&amp;C business.
And then we will continuously look at and do acquisitions and we will continuously evaluate prospects for disposing and mitigating the results and what's remaining of the non-core run-off businesses as we have so nothing to announce or discuss today but expect us to keep working on all three of those fronts.
I guess a follow-up to that and this is question we get often is the discussion on the other pieces of Life &amp; Group Non-Core and the discussion on how the entities are I guess co-mingled so anything near-term would be difficult is that something which would take much longer than perhaps what the perception might be out there just in terms of separating the entities and perhaps doing something down the road can you just talk a bit about that? I am not sure exactly I don’t know that I am exactly hearing your question.
But I will tell you the way we think of it is and so we are when we haven’t closed the sale of the life company yet but once we have closed the sale of life company we are essentially left with the long-term care business because we have sold the Asbestos and Environmental to National Indemnity and then the life business to Wilton Re.
That’s a business that’s going to be – we are going to be in.
At the moment we are looking at that as if we are going to be in that business for a very long period of time.
And we don’t see any viable prospects or opportunities to separate it.
So we continuously look at it and evaluate it but that’s I think you should at the moment our focus is how do we operationally improve that business and operationally improve those results while we keep our eyes open and evaluate – any other way to demise or defease those liabilities.
Got it.
No you actually did answer my question with that.
The only other question I had was the discussion on the auto NGL I think you mentioned claims frequency was higher I guess on the auto side and the loss cost severity was higher on the GL side can you sort of just expand on that just a bit more? I don’t think there isn't a whole lot more it's just that auto frequency is up slightly again ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 years.
If you take a look at the slide that if you would that I referenced in earnings and you can see that I think the way NGL severity was up slightly over those same year periods.
So I wouldn’t consider this increase to be that substantial the way I would suggest you look at it and the way we look at it is that if you look at those years we have made significant improvements over those four year period.
It's just that the starting point was just a little bit worse than we thought the starting point was when we got – when we started on this journey.
Got it.
So net net nothing unusual in terms of what you saw this quarter versus the past? No.
Awesome that’s all I have.
Thanks and once again congrats on the quarter.
Thank you.
And we will take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Good morning CNA.
Good morning.
Question on the deferred gain now for the Berkshire transaction what’s the duration of that? Well really it would be the duration of the contract Bob effectively because it gets recognized as ceded paid losses move towards ceded open on liabilities.
So that $189 million is going to feed in over let’s say six to eight years or longer or…? It should be longer than that.
I would think the duration of these liabilities are 20 years plus.
Okay and that comes through the combined ratio that will improve your combined ratio or not? That will yes that will come through with a reduction loss and so in the corporate segment.
Right okay.
And pension how much does that contributing into AOCI and what’s the sort of run rate for pension expenses perspective I think you get a little bit of a positive? We do get a little bit of a positive.
So the reevaluation of our pension liabilities I mentioned that it was very meaningful in the stats.
So it was really less than $400 million impact on stat surplus positive and with a little less than $300 million after-tax impact on GAAP equity.
That’s for the quarter or for the year? Well that it was recognized this quarter.
In the quarter? Right.
So it was recognized in the quarter but part of the reason for the increase in GAAP equity and the run rate expenses it’s a slight positive it’s not really meaningful going forward.
Okay.
Nickel dime type order of magnitude or is it going to be bigger? Yes not important.
It’s really not important and you wouldn’t recognize or noticed it in the model.
Well it’s been a pressure incrementally so just alleviating the pressure is a bigger help than that? Yes.
And congrats you warned me to be patient on the improvement in underlying that the rates would work their way through and your recommendations for patience was certainly justified with what we saw this quarter and to a lesser extent the last quarter.
So you Tom I think in your remarks you said there is expectations for improvement in underlying prospectively.
Is there anything that we should think of different than rates less loss cost growth that could mitigate the improvement prospectively? I think we are going to keep pushing rates in those lines that needed.
I think we’re doing a better job retaining the better accounts.
So our credibility is increasing at a customer level and the agent level.
Other than that I think it just continuing to focus in to drive the numbers in the right direction but we are getting good rat increases in commercial and specialty in the business that we retained.
So I don’t think you have to expect anything different out of us other than we just keep pushing it we are getting better at it.
I think that’s the story here.
We are getting better at execution.
Good answer.
One last question do you need more rate in commercial in light of sort of what you pumped up reserves or you think the current rate is adequate to get your equal returns? The more rate the better.
That’s always going to impact your margin.
I think it’s kind of interesting Bob.
We do a lot of – I’d say granularity when it comes to rate increases but if you look at our commercial business we are getting rate increases between 6% to 13% on business what really the story is that’s underlying at least we think it’s a big issue or a bigger issue is we have more rate decreases in the fourth quarter than we did in the third and second quarter.
In that I think translates into the book is getting better and as the book gets better you have some customers that actually deserve a little bit of a rate decrease.
So the number of policies that got rate decreases went up in the fourth quarter whether it was commercial or specialty but we are still getting rate increases.
So that’s good.
So yeah I think we’ll just keep pushing on it and risk selection more and more of our business is in the focus classes and that’s what we are doing.
And when it comes to new business we are writing less new business because we think there is a bunch of business out there that’s probably not that good.
That’s what shown up in the marketplace as people try to retain their best accounts.
So I think we are just becoming better at execution and recognizing what you go after and why you want to keep.
I appreciate the granularity Tom.
Thanks.
You are welcome.
And we’ll take our next question from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Yes hi there.
Good morning everyone.
I want to just walk through the commercial expense ratio you had the benefit from the favorable development and that one of there is actual underlying improvement going on in the expense ratio as well seeing you are not forecasting forward? Well I think Josh you ought to think in commercial there was probably about a 2 point benefit from the insurance assessment on that ratio but there also is some seasonality in terms of spend on the other side is a little higher.
So I think that expense ratio is approximated by 1 point – in terms of going forward and maybe 1 point or 1.5 point at the most.
Okay.
And then on Hardy the expense ratio improved year-over-year but there might have also been seasonality in that.
I realize it’s all coming off of a small base you plan to grow that business.
Was the 49ish above budget below budget or maybe it was 47% I have to go check the number again I am trying to think about how to think about that going forward? No.
This quarter the report expense ratio was 49 at Hardy but that was inflated by some one-time cost to close the Bermuda operation and also some severance expenses so quite inflated by 2 points 2.5 points from the run rate.
And I think what we have said in the past is that the long-term objective is to get the expense ratio at Hardy to 40 or better.
And I will tell you we expect to get most of the way there over the course of 2014.
Okay.
And I don’t mean to be labor expenses but it’s always easy to look at improvements there.
So there wasn’t really much improvement on the Specialty side are we at run rate operational efficiencies at CNA Specialty from an underwriting expense ratio?  Well I think when you say not much improvement there was – the expense ratio on a full year basis is 1.5 points lower than it was.
And I would say right so it’s running around 30 that’s about the right – that’s about the right number and I wouldn’t want you to think that it’s going to get much lower from there.
But we are always looking for ways for improving productivity without expenses flat.
I would tell you that our overall this total spend was down about 1% year-over-year this year if you included the impact of Hardy having been into the full year our actual spend was about 4% less on underwriting and other expenses.
So it’s something that we are mindful of but it’s – so we will continue to make – we are going to hopefully continue to make some progress there.
It’s a focus for us but the real focus right now is improving the loss ratio and that’s where we would point you as we out to look for more improvement in ‘14.
And the team is the right team you have the right people in place now this is like – anything about your organization this is the CNA team going forward? Yes this team has been in place for quite a few years with relatively few exceptions.
Yes it is the team.
Alright great.
Thank you very much and good luck in the future.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) We take our next question from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
Hi thanks a lot.
I just had a couple questions but first congrats you are obviously busy beavers.
Well I assume that’s always the case but great report.
So I had a question about the loss portfolio transfer and in essence the increase in losses.
And I am just curious that the staff responsible for reviewing the claims making the claims payments the actuaries that set these reserves are these now all in essence Berkshire employees and they are providing you this number for ultimate ceded losses? I assume there is some level of review you then sort of opine and book a number or does it come about a different way? Ron good morning.
So it’s – no these estimates are our estimates.
So our actuarial staff does a complete review as they would have in the past of all of the case reserve estimates and they interview the claim adjustors and the staff doing the claim administration.
Now what’s changed is the staff doing the claim administration are Resolute/National Indemnity employees.
We do have also a group under Jon Kantor our General Counsel Legal who in the past had managed ours who also has an oversight function in claim and claim settlement related to National Indemnity.
So we do pay attention to what they are doing.
We haven’t outsourced it and then just forgotten about it but I would emphasize that the estimates are our estimates.
Okay.
Thanks I appreciate that.
And I had a question about Hardy Tom if you comment on sort of the underwriting results in the fourth quarter whether they should have met your expectations fell short whether they exceeded your expectations.
And then if you could talk about the Hardy book of business and how it was if at all sort of reconfigured or structured at the one-one reinsurance renewal any sort of changes there or color you can provide? And that’s it for me.
Thanks again.
I will start and Craig will finish with reinsurance comment.
I think number one when we bought Hardy we were optimistic that it would be a contributor and it is contributing.
They have reprofiled their treaty reinsurance business but we continue to like the businesses they are in.
As Craig mentioned we have closed down the Bermuda operation because we don’t think we can get enough volume and margin out of there.
So we are making adjustments as we go but we are pleased it’s a very competitive market at Lloyd’s and we like the strength that we are saying relative to new business they are not following the pack so we like that.
So I could say we are satisfied with where they are but we want more and they know that they are going to work on improving the margins.
And as Craig mentioned expenses ratio we expect that that’s going to come down.
So I think there is from our perspective optimism that they can perform at a higher level just like CNA can.
So yes we are petty pleased but it is a tough environment over there and we like the fact that they are showing restraint.
Thanks.
Yes there is nothing really changed in the portfolio there Ron so it’s we did have a small property treaty reinsurance function and obviously the prospects for that are less optimistic than they would have been.
But you will recall that we never really counted and thought that much of that in the get-go.
So they like we are focused on underwriting profit and being disciplined underwriting managers.
And we think we got excellent cadre of underwriters over there managing their business.
Thanks gentlemen.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
Now I will take our next question from John Thomas with Williams Blair Hi.
The middle market in commercial has seen a decrease in rate over the past three quarters while the small business in commercial has the rate increases had actually increased could you comment on the differences there? Small business needs more rate than middle market.
I mean that’s the short answer.
So we expect that they will continue to get significant rate increases to improve their profitability.
I think if you look at the middle market we are petty pleased with the level of rate increases.
As I said earlier we are getting overall rate increases on the renewal book at the same time there are accounts in that renewal book that are getting rate decreases and we saw more of them in the fourth quarter than we did the second and the third.
And that’s probably where it is reflective of the fact that these are better accounts that we are retaining and to retain them or given back a little bit on the rate side but overall we are petty pleased with that.
And if you look at loss trends the fact is we still have a pretty good return or margin and if you want to you can look at Page 13 of the handout that will kind of tell you the story there.
Alright thanks.
And then professional liability what are you seeing with the loss trends in 2013 compared to 2012? It’s kind of flat with those prior years.
Alright thanks.
Yes.
And at this time there are no other questions in queue.
I will turn it back over to our speakers for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
And that concludes today’s conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning and welcome to the CNA’s discussion of our 2014 first quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com under the Investor Relations menu.
With us on this morning’s call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom’s and Craig’s remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up to your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made and references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday April 28 2014.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
I would also like to remind you that presentation slides have again been posted on our website to provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
In the first quarter of this year CNA produced operating income of $190 million compared with $225 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Current accident year non-catastrophe underwriting results improved over prior year but were offset by higher winter-related catastrophes and lower limited partnership investment income.
Our property and casualty combined ratio was 101.6 for the quarter in line with last year's first quarter.
Catastrophes affected the loss and combined ratios by 4.5 points as compared with 2.4 points in the first quarter of 2013.
Our property and casualty combined ratio excluding catastrophes in development was 97.2.
This was almost a four point improvement as compared with the first quarter of 2013.
This includes just over a three point improvement in our loss ratio and a 0.7 point improvement in our expense ratio.
Our results in the first quarter are consistent where we ended full year 2013.
Property and Casualty net written premium was flat in the quarter as rate increases were offset by lower retention in commercial resulting from underwriting actions including exiting classes outside of our appetite as well as continuing to focus on underwriting and pricing actions to improve profitability.
We continue to seek and achieve rate increases exceeding loss cost trends.
Commercial rates increased 6% in the quarter with retention in the mid-70s.
Specialty rates increased 4% and retention remained strong in the mid-80s.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
As Tom mentioned first quarter net operating income was $190 million or $0.70 per share and the operating return on equity was 6.3%.
Our reported net income of $13 million includes a $214 million impairment charge related to the pending sale of our life subsidiary Continental Assurance Company which we announced last quarter.
The results of that business as well as the impact of the impairment charge are now being reported as a discontinued operation.
We still expect to close this transaction sometime in the second quarter.
The majority of our business' balance strength reflects our continuous improvements.
We are pleased with the ongoing progress in our specialty hardy and long term care businesses as well as our investment results and capital management activities.
Our results in certain parts of commercial lines are not what we expected.
Continued loss caused pressure on auto and certain classes within our small business segments slowed our overall progress.
Our middle market business and customer segment strategies are taking hold and are making meaningful positive contributions to our progress.
Our core P&amp;C operations produced net operating income of $219 million in the first quarter compared with $257 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The decrease was primarily the result of lower limited partnership investment income and winter related catastrophe losses.
Our first quarter P&amp;C operations loss ratio excluding catastrophes in development was 64% a 3 point improvement as compared with last year's first quarter and consistent with our reported full year 2013 results.
Our first quarter expense ratio was 33.1% a seven-tenths of a point improvement from the prior year period and again consistent with our full year 2013 results reflecting our ongoing expense management efforts and a lower level of underwriting expenses.
Specialty’s first quarter combined ratio excluding catastrophes in development was 93.9% four points better than last year's first quarter and modestly better than the full year 2013 results.
The reported combined ratio was 94.4% which included 1.4 points of cat losses and just under one point of favorable development.
The loss ratio excluding catastrophes in development was 63.7% three points lower than last year's first quarter and slightly below the full year 2013 results.
The improvement was driven by rate increases and excessive trends as well as targeted underwriting actions that continue to refine the portfolio mix.
Commercial's first quarter combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 101.2% almost three points better than last year's first quarter.
The loss ratio excluding catastrophes in development was 66.9% an improvement of almost two points over the prior year's period but one point above full year 2013.
Non-cat weather and other large first party losses added approximately 1.5 points to the reported loss ratio.
The reported combined ratio of 109.8% included 7.5 points of catastrophe losses and compares with the prior year period 106.8% which had 4.6 points of catastrophe losses.
Hardy reported net operating income of $7 million in the first quarter with the combined ratio excluding catastrophes in development of 88.6% as both the underlying loss ratio and expense ratio improved compared with the first quarter 2013 and the full year.
Reported combined ratio was 87.1% which included a smaller amount of favorable prior period development items.
Hardy's first quarter expense ratio includes almost four points of one-time items.
The run-rate expense ratio is now in the mid-40s.
Hardy continued to produce a modest amount of organic net written premium growth and also benefited from a reduced level of reinsurance spend.
The life and group segment produced $2 million of net operating loss in the quarter slightly better than the first quarter of 2013 primarily driven by higher net investment income due to a higher invested asset base.
The results were helped by the ongoing positive impact of our rate increase actions; morbidity was generally favorable while persistency was unfavorable to recent quarter’s results.
Our corporate segment which primarily includes corporate expenses reported a $27 million first quarter net operating loss consistent with the prior year’s first quarter.
It includes a small $2 million benefit from the recognition of the deferred gain established last quarter related to the NICO retroactive reinsurance transaction.
Our balance sheet continues to reflect CNA’s financial strength and stability.
Book value per share decreased 1% in the first quarter to $46.61 per share.
Excluding accumulated other comprehensive income book value was $44.05 per share down 3% from year-end 2013.
The decrease was driven by our previously announced $1 a share special dividend and $0.25 a share quarterly dividend as well as the negative impact of the CAC sale.
Our investment portfolio’s pretax net unrealized gains stood at approximately $2.5 billion at quarter-end an increase of approximately $600 million from year-end 2013.
Our statutory surplus at quarter-end was $11 billion and we continue to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
As previously announced we completed a $550 million debt offering in February with the proceeds earmarked to retire senior notes maturing in December of this year.
The coupon on the new debt is 3.95% 190 basis points lower than the existing debts.
Cash and short term investments at the holding company level were approximately $1 billion at quarter-end up significantly due to the proceeds from the debt offering.
In the first quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was approximately $150 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay down bond calls and maturities were approximately $850 million.
Net investment income was $526 million pretax in the first quarter.
Limited partnership income of $73 million was a solid 2.7% return this quarter but lower than the exceptional return in the same period last year.
Income from our fixed maturity and other securities excluding LPs in the first quarter was $553 million pretax down slightly from the prior year period.
More importantly you will note that we generated $324 million of after tax income from these securities which is above the level of first quarter 2013 reflective of the opportunity that we saw in fees last summer and the tax exempt municipal bond market.
Our actions have enabled us to sustain an after tax book yield of 3.5% on this part of the portfolio.
While our overall portfolio allocations did not change significantly in the first quarter we did continue to increase our allocation to the tax exempt municipal bond market.
The Investment grade corporate bond sector continues to represent the largest component of our invested assets.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A with fixed income assets that support our long duration life like liabilities and an effective duration of 11.5 years at quarter-end the effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.3 years at quarter-end.
These durations are both in line with portfolio targets.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thanks Craig.
Before we open it up for questions I would like to make some final comments.
As Craig said our steady progress is evident across the majority of our businesses.
We are pleased with our progress in specialty and Hardy and with our capital position and investment income.
We know we have to work -- we have to work to do in commercial.
We remain focused on the disciplined execution of our articulated business strategy and are committed to driving further improvement in our results.
With that we would be glad to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we will take our first question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
I was wondering if you could -- good morning everyone.
I was wondering if you could expand on what sort of has changed in commercial auto within the small business segment that's causing some pressures? I think the industry is acknowledging that commercial auto is a class that's not doing very well.
And the fact is for us that would be middle market as-well-as small but particularly in the small area.
I think the good news is we're refining our underwriting and pricing strategies there Bob.
We're getting double-digit rate in small on commercial auto.
So we believe a combination of strict underwriting guidelines and pricing as well as rate increases is going to have the impact of turning that around overtime.
Well thank you.
If I could follow-up just with a numbers question for Craig I see in the Life and Group non-core on page eight you had a $32 million pretax loss and $30 million of tax benefits anything driving the sort of higher tax credit rate this quarter? That's just a reflection of the investment portfolio which you'll recall is more heavily weighted to tax exempt municipals.
Okay thank you.
You're welcome Bob.
And our next question comes from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Your one number that looked a little worse than we've been seeing was the favorable development in the specialty segment.
And I am wondering is that -- maybe it's – [I’d] move back a little it looks like there might be some seasonality there where the first quarter tends that have a lower reserve release is that what's going on or is there any underlying change what you're seeing from a claim standpoint in that segment? I think you're right in what you said Jay.
First quarter typically is lighter we had a big fourth quarter reserve releases in specialty.
It's seasonal.
The fact is we don't look at every line every class every quarter and specialty tends to be more towards the end of the year than the beginning of the year.
And I guess on the commercial business you had some very modest amount of adverse development but it was adverse.
Can you give us a kind of glimpse into what's happening with various classes of business from the reserve standpoint is that more in the commercial auto side you're seeing some pressure in those reserves? Jay I can give you just a little bit of color there.
Yes there was some adverse in commercial auto in the more recent accident years and but that was largely offset by some favorable development we had in property mixed with property cap from '13 as-well-as general liability in some older years.
And what you are really seeing there is just the residual of what's left in the workers comp aggregate discount on the line.
So I would say -- I would characterize that result as flat for the quarter.
That's fair.
Very good.
Thank you very much.
Welcome.
(Operator Instructions).
Next we will hear from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning.
No one's digging a little further on the commercial auto can you talk a little about what the combined ratio you're running at for that business right now is and I think that's probably about $300 million-$400 million of premium annually can you give us some color on that? Yeah hold on.
On an exiting year basis it's running about at $121 million and $159 million on a calendar year.
And how much premium is that? Hold on we have to get that.
Yeah it's about less than 10% it's around 10% of our commercial sales.
And can we also sort of scale the small business that’s not really a reporting category you have so I am not sure exactly what you can tell me there.
But I would be interested to know how you guys think about that as well? So you can see the scale in the earnings slide as James referred to earlier Josh you can see the general revenue as well as rate and retention so that -- I might -- I don’t know exactly that page.
Okay that category it's shown that.
There is some small commercial in and there is some commercial auto in the small business that’s a class as opposed to a line.
Yes.
Yes okay.
And so in terms of thinking about the pace of improvement if where we are today where given the rate improvements you are at how quickly do you think you will take to turn this around given the pricing right now and the trends involved? Well we are taking a pretty hard line on rate increases like I said a small low double-digit.
Retention we’ve really dropped a lot of business there retention is kind of just under 60%.
So a combination of really getting rid of the bad stuff that we don’t think we can fix plus applying rates for the remainder of the book will be helpful and we are extremely cautious on what we are writing new and really trying to write the new business at profitable level.
So it's going to take some time to get through it but I couldn’t give you an exact time on that.
But would it be and of course that even if you could hold loss cost generally flattish given double digit rate increases it would take you a couple years to get to where you want to be on commercial auto? Well I certainly think to find a couple two to three that’s probably will apply to… Oh couple two yeah.
Yeah and I think that really it's the power of written rate turning to earned rate and exceeding loss cost that will drive the margins more favorably.
So we are confident that we’ll be able to continue to get rate increases in this line.
All right well I appreciate all the color.
Thank you very much and good luck.
Yeah you are welcome.
(Operator Instructions).
And we have a follow-up question from Jay Cohen.
Please go ahead.
Yeah thank you a couple of questions.
The first is I am wondering if you can discuss the competitive conditions in the commercial segment I see which your average rate increases are -- But if you can give more color around that? And then separately you talked about non-CAT weather and some severe losses affecting the loss ratio.
So I am wondering if you can just talk about some of these severe losses what kind of losses are we are talking about? Okay on the loss side obviously was a tough winter some of it gets cataloged as CAT and we’ve kind of given you the CAT numbers.
We did have some non-CAT large losses like I say probably in the amount of $15 million so a couple of fires et cetera.
So you have that and then there is in general the fact that you have weather-related losses that are not CATs.
So we’ve had some activity there as well as I think most people so a combination of CATs large loss and weather-related claims from the severe winter.
And your other question Jay was? On competitive conditions Tom? Yeah you know it's always competitive but I think what we are seeing and probably have seen for the last six months maybe a little more is people are very protective of their renewals.
They are putting them to bed earlier they are not letting them get to market and in fact maybe cutting their or not applying rate to some of them renewing them flat.
So I think people are more protective of the renewal book which creates less new business opportunities.
We have seen less new business opportunities here at CNA and it’s not for not trying.
It’s clearly people are trying to put their stock to bed much earlier so we see that.
Our new business I would say people when a piece comes out there people are competitive and writing some of the business in commercial probably below expiring in many cases and everybody has different analytics to predict one account is better than the other.
So I think you have some trading when business comes out to the market on a new business standpoint so but that has been going on for a while.
I don't think it’s anything new.
Kind of interesting though when we look at commercial the month of March had the highest rate increases in the first quarter compared to January and February so it’s a little lumpy out there but that’s how I would describe it.
That’s great.
Thank you.
And next we’ll hear from Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So when you look through some of the weather and noise it looks like your accident year loss ratio in first quarter was better than the first quarter last year.
Do you think we’ll continue to see accident year improvement throughout this year? That’s the goal.
Okay.
Next question worker’s comp how is that trending and again do you think the accident year worker’s comp this year will be better than last year? You know I think there are couple of things going on in worker’s comp here; number one we’re getting rate increases in excess of loss cost trends so that will improve margin.
We’re moving the mix much more into we would call white collar which I probably describe as companies that have people that really want to go back to work because they’re high wage earners.
So we’re managing the mix.
We’re pretty careful on what states we’re growing in or not growing in.
So it’s multifaceted strategy; get the rate increases manage the mix manage the jurisdictions but we think we’re going to gain on worker’s comp.
We are seeing improvement there.
Okay thank you very much.
And our next question comes from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
Hi good morning.
I got on the call late so I apologize if this is ground you covered.
I was curious to hear your thoughts about what’s going on in the cyber market comp sort of broadly and then any actions or plans for CNA's participation.
And then switching to Hardy if there’s any description as far as does Hardy have a broadening underwriting appetite whether it’s geography or lines of business that you would describe any of that I appreciate it.
Thanks and helpful as well.
I’ll start with Hardy.
I think Hardy is in a competitive environment in the Lloyd’s marketplace it is quite competitive on pricing whether that be new and renewal.
They did give up about 3.0 points of rate in the quarter but I would describe them as sticking to their strategy of various areas that they want to underwrite in and I think they really have a great attitude about keeping their powder dry.
They are not going to chase the market down.
You know we’re constantly talking to them but they are pretty disciplined and I think they are not going to chase the market down.
They’re going to wait for the opportunities and we’re pretty happy with what’s going on at Hardy and they obviously contributed to the results in the first quarter.
As far as cyber we do offer cyber liability.
We have been doing that for a while.
It is a hot topic obviously what you read in the papers and I think fear sells right.
So companies are buying this product they are not sure if they are going to have a breach or not but clearly it is a hot product.
And there is a lot of competition for it.
There is a lot of people writing cyber and we would expect that to continue.
To me it's a little bit reminiscent of public D&amp;O back in the early 80s that you know we were selling the product and nobody really knew what the coverage was and there weren’t many claims.
And then all of a sudden there were claims and people started adjusting terms and conditions and policy language.
So I think Cyber quite honestly is going develop overtime till we really know what it's all about et cetera but it's here to stay.
Thanks.
Can I just go back to hardy sort of make sure because you didn't say so I assume the answer was no I didn't think you said.
As far as Hardy broadening its geographic risk profile or lines of business no great no meaningful changes planned there or currently being undertaken in fact you said it's sticking to their knitting the same lines if they had been writing historically and largely in the same geographies? Yeah that's true.
Now the only thing I would give you there is one caveat and that is Lloyds is expanding their network.
They operate out of Singapore now and the fact is we have to figure out how we're going to -- if we did go to Singapore for Lloyds we got to figure out how we're going to do that and what product lines.
But we're not going to do something we don't know anything about I can assure that's the case.
So we're going to stick to our core competency our expertise if there is business that fits that coming out of the Singapore Lloyds facility we will be interested in entertaining it if it's the right price.
Okay.
But this is not about going like a barn burner here this is cautious.
Good.
We don't want any barn burners.
No we don't like barns that burn.
All right.
Bye-bye.
And our next question comes from John Thomas with Williams Blair.
Hi some of my questions have already been asked already but can you breakdown the growth in specialty because that came in at 10% this quarter and I am just wondering what lines of business you're driving there? Yeah that's gross; the net was let's see minus one.
All right and so why were those so different? It's the Asurion cell phone captive I think we have talked about it before but it's quite been a while since we've described it.
Okay.
That's booked as gross so that does not contribute to the net.
Okay and then your exposure growth this year compared to last year are you seeing increased business activity lower? Slightly higher but I am telling you slightly less than a point.
All right.
Thanks.
Yes.
And it appears there are no further questions at this time.
Mr.
Motamed I'd like to turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
And once again that does conclude today’s conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Randy.
Good morning and welcome to the CNA's discussion of our 2014 second quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our newly designed website www.cna.com.
With us on this morning’s call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom’s and Craig’s remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up to your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made in references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning these risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-Q and 10-K on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday August 4 2014.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP financial measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
I would also like to remind you that presentation slides have been again posted to our website to provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
In the second quarter CNA produced operating income of $272 million compared with $199 million in the second quarter of 2013 a 37% increase.
Our operating return on equity for the quarter was 9%.
Our Property &amp; Casualty combined ratio was 101.3 slightly better than the second quarter of last year.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 96.3 more than one point better than the second quarter of 2013.
This improvement was driven by lower non-Cat accident year loss ratios in Specialty and Commercial improved Life &amp; Group results and higher net investment income.
Results were also positively affected by a post retirement plan curtailment benefit.
Once again Specialty had a strong quarter with a combined ratio of 86.4%.
Net written premium for the quarter was down 2% due in part to the termination of a MGA relationship due to unprofitability.
Excluding this action premium was flat.
Rates increased 4%.
Commercial’s combined ratio was 115% in the quarter which included 10 points of prior year unfavorable development.
Seven of the ten points are attributed to run off programs that we have previously exited.
Commercial rates increased 4% overall and 5% in the U.S.
and retention was 70%.
We continue to work diligently to improve the quality of the book.
In addition we strengthened reserves in small business this quarter.
We continue to take underwriting and pricing actions in certain classes in our effort to improve profitability.
These actions have also driven small business retention ratios down as well as reduced rate achievement as we non-renewed accounts that would have otherwise provided larger rate increased opportunities.
Finally as announced last week we completed the sale of Continental Assurance Company to Wilton Re.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Craig? Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
As Tom mentioned second quarter net operating income was $272 million or $1 per share and the operating return on equity was 9%.
Our reported net income was $267 million.
Our core P&amp;C operations produced net operating income of $236 million compared with $258 million in the second quarter of 2013.
The decrease was primarily the result of reserves strengthening in Commercial.
The P&amp;C operations loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 62.8% an almost two-point improvement compared with last year’s second quarter.
The year-to-date loss ratio of 63.4% has now improved nearly half a point compared with our full year 2013 results.
Our second quarter expense ratio was 33.3% essentially flat with the first quarter and the full year 2013 results.
We continue to be pleased with the ongoing progress in our Specialty business.
Specialty’s reported second quarter combined ratio was 86.4% which included more than seven points of favorable development.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 93.1% two and a half points better than last year’s second quarter.
The year-to-date results of 93.4% has now improved almost one point compared with our full year 2013 results driven by improvements in the underlying loss ratio.
The loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 62.5% more than three points lower than last year’s second quarter and on a year-to-date basis almost one point lower than where we ended 2013.
The improvements were driven by targeted underwriting actions that continue to refine the portfolio mix as well as rate increases in excess of loss trends.
Rate increases for the quarter were 4% with retention in the low 80s.
As Tom described our results in Commercial are not where we need them to be.
The reported combined ratio of 115% included 5.7 points of catastrophe losses and almost 10 points of reserves strengthening.
The Commercial reserves strengthening was driven primarily by exited programs but also includes small business.
Commercial’s combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 99.4% almost two points better than last year’s second quarter.
The loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 64.7% an improvement of more than one point compared with the prior year period.
Both the 2014 combined ratio and loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development showed improvement this quarter.
The year-to-date ratios are now slightly better than where we ended the full year 2013.
Rate increases for the quarter were 4% with retention 70%.
Hardy reported a net operating loss of $5 million in the second quarter with a combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development of 96.4%.
The underlying loss and expense ratios compared unfavorably with the second quarter 2013.
The loss ratio was affected by higher than expected attritional losses.
The impact of FX and integration costs also contributed to the unfavorable comparison.
Hardy’s reported combined ratio was 102.9% which included 4.6 points of catastrophe losses compared with no cat losses in the prior year quarter.
The two points of unfavorable development was related to premium shortfalls and not adverse loss development.
The Life &amp; Group segment had a good quarter producing net operating income of $9 million compared with a loss in the second quarter of 2013.
Our long-term care business benefitted from favorable morbidity and persistency.
Rate increases higher investment income and a gain on the life settlement contract also contributed to the improved results.
On Friday we announced the completion of the sale of our life subsidiary Continental Assurance Company to Wilton Re.
In addition to the sale we are reinsuring a block of structured settlement annuities out of our Bermuda subsidiary to Wilton.
This reinsurance transaction is being done on a funds withheld basis meaning that we will maintain legal ownership of the assets associated with the transaction but Wilton will assume the economic risk.
The market value of the assets is currently $35 million higher than the $150 million book value causing us to recognize a $35 million loss at the date of inception August 1.
This loss will be reflected on our third quarter results.
Over time we’d expect the $35 million to unwind as the assets mature and the market value approaches book value.
But until then we’ll have periodic realized gains and losses based on the market value change in these assets.
Our corporate segment which primarily includes corporate expenses produced net operating income of $27 million compared with a loss in the second quarter of 2013.
This result includes $56 million of after-tax income related to a decision that we made this quarter to eliminate a postretirement medical benefit subsidy.
The benefit elimination reduced the accrual of future benefits for a significant number of planned participants and triggered the immediate recognition of an unrealized gain in AOCI related to prior negative planned amendments.
While increasing current period income this change did not affect total stockholder’s equity.
Book value per share increased 4% in the second quarter to $48.43 a share.
Excluding accumulated other comprehensive income book value increased 2% in the quarter.
Our investment portfolio’s pre-tax net unrealized gains stood at approximately $3.3 billion at quarter end an increase of over $750 million for the quarter and 1.3 billion year-to-date.
Our statutory surplus at quarter end was $11.2 billion and we continue to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $1 billion at quarter end up significantly from year end due to the proceeds from the debt offering discussed last quarter.
In the second quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was approximately $400 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $1.1 billion.
Second quarter after-tax investment income of $391 million exceeded the prior year results.
Both our limited partnership investments and our fixed maturity and other securities contributed to the favorable comparison.
Overall portfolio allocations did not change significantly in the second quarter.
The investment grade corporate bond sector continues to represent the largest components of our invested assets.
The average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Fixed income assets that support our long duration life-like liabilities had an effective duration of 11.4 years at quarter end.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.2 years at quarter end.
These durations are both in line with portfolio targets.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified highly liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
With that I’ll turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we take your questions I would like to offer a few comments on the current state of the market.
First of all I believe the market is exercising good discipline when you look at risk selection and pricing.
Although rate increases are decelerating our rates in the U.S.
continue to exceed loss cost inflation.
Second profitable new business opportunities are not widespread.
Underwriters are protecting their best accounts after several years of rate increases and putting them to bed earlier.
Third we continue to focus on our segment strategy and avoid expanding our appetite for the sake of growth.
The carriers that have expertise in underwriting risk control and claims will fare well even with the deceleration of rate increases.
Let me close with this quarter’s highlights.
Operating income of $272 million increased 37% compared with the second quarter of 2013.
Book value increased 4% compared with the first quarter.
We continue to make progress in our core Property &amp; Casualty operations with our combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development improving over the prior period by 1.3 points.
Lastly we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.25.
The entire team here is focused on execution and improvement and there is confidence about our strategy in our future.
With that we would be glad to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We’ll take our first question from Jay Cohen from BoAML.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
A couple of questions.
I guess I was a little surprised to see the adverse development in small commercial and I’m wondering if you could go into more detail on what drove that and what lines of business drove that? And then separately while the U.S.
seems to be holding up reasonably well as you guys described it from a competitive standpoint it sounds like London is getting quite competitive and prices are down there quite a bit.
So the second question is what’s the strategy in London given what appears to be more intense pricing pressure? This is Craig Jay.
Why don’t I try to give you the answer on small business and then let Tom describe what’s happening in London.
But the small business adverse development is really driven by a package in the liability portion of package and that’s really where we’ve been focusing our attention as we’re working to correct by taking down some general liability limits exiting some classes and reducing the unanticipated severity that we’re seeing in that business line.
And the last question any particular accident years? That was 13.
Okay.
Switching to Europe we have two businesses there.
We have Hardy Syndicate at Lloyd's and we have our regular business in the UK and the continent.
The Lloyd's market is extremely competitive as you know and as you suggested Jay.
So our strategy at Lloyd's is basically to walk away from business when the pricing just becomes ridiculous.
And we are very satisfied that they are maintaining the right kind of discipline and it’s affecting their retention and once again new business is very cheap there.
So I think the London Lloyd's market is as you said extremely competitive.
What we call the company market our UK and European operations it’s competitive but it’s not as competitive as Lloyd's.
So I think we’re holding our own there.
We’re happy with what we’re seeing.
But once again this is about walking away when the price gets ridiculous.
I guess just one follow up on that if you don’t mind.
Part of the story there has been the expense ratio has been coming down.
That I assume is going to get a little tougher if you’re obviously willing to walk away from business to protect the loss ratio; but then the expense ratio could that give us some upward pressure? I think Jay yes it could and we’re also in the – remember we’re investing there and we’re investing there for the long term.
So we’re not going to let this short-term softening distract us from adding and building the right foundational elements to grow over the long term there.
So we are actually relocating the offices of Hardy and our other European operations co-locating them in the fourth quarter so there would be some one-time expense charges there and it will make improving that expense ratio which I think we even told you before we had an objective of getting it down to the low 40s more challenging and take us a little longer to get there.
The thing I would add there also Jay is we have added people at Hardy.
We have brought in a group of people in what they call casualty but think of that as a little bit of professional liability.
And also we are looking to inject some of our current capabilities in healthcare et cetera into Hardy and that’s one of the reasons behind putting everybody in one place.
Like Craig said it’s to get the best of both worlds and create an additive situation rather than just follow the market down.
Got it.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
We’ll take our next question from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Given the reserve charge I just want to talk about thinking about a situation in the future where you would call CNA a business that has a higher probability that reserves are redundant as opposed to being deficient.
And are you still putting out fires or do you believe that you’re already in that position.
I think we’ve identified all the fires and we have firemen surrounding them.
We don’t think there are any more surprises we kind of call it the whac-a-mole phenomenon if you recall that game in an arcade where things pop up their ugly head but we think we’ve got our handle on all of that.
So our objective is to drive more of our business into the segments with those you are probably familiar with but the segments today are 70% of the book that’s gone up from the prior quarter.
The loss ratio on the segment business is four points better than the overall loss ratio and that’s an area that we think our specialization will continue to sell on the marketplace.
So we keep pushing the business towards the segments.
And think of it this way if that’s 70% of the business we got 30% of the business and if you look at the pieces that are kind of what we’re focused on it’s 18% of fixing to do if you will.
So we think we’re moving in the right direction and we have good traction but we have identified what we call all the fires.
So the extent to which – I mean when you use the term for yourself whac-a-mole’s kind of a pejorative term in that things are popping up and surprising.
Why do you have more confidence after this quarter that you’re not going to be surprised and why do you think you got surprised this quarter? I think we got under the machine and we saw the moles before they popped up so we’ve kind of identified the outliers that have been outside the business so outside the segment business.
So if you think of long haul trucking and international work comp and things that just didn’t fit our strategy we’ve got a very good handle about that today.
I think Josh listen you can never be absolutely sure of anything right.
But what we’d like to have the reputation and believe we’ve earned is that when we see something we don’t delay it.
We don’t put it off thinking it’s going to get better.
So we act on what we see when we saw it.
So these are primarily businesses that we exited more than two years ago where the severity trend has been even worse than we anticipated when we decided getting out.
And so count on us to act on things when we see things and no delay things.
I appreciate the candor there.
The other question I have can you discuss the last three months of rate approval trend in long-term care? And then what progress you’ve made there? Well the rate approvals are now slightly over half of what we filed for at least the most recent filing.
Remember we had really two series of rate increase filing; one started in 2010 one started in 2012.
The 2010 one is largely completed; 2012 is about halfway through although we’re not seeing all of it yet follow through the incremental increase from rate this quarter was an additional $5 million and actually from both programs if you think of it starting at 12 – an additional $12 million in rate coming through the segment this quarter.
And in the states where you haven’t gotten as much approvals you’ve asked for knowing as much as you know about the political process what do you think the odds are of you getting rate on rate in the coming year and the regulators trying to just slow your pace of you getting what you think you need versus trying to put a restriction on you achieving that rate? Well it is different in every state as I’m sure you appreciate and know.
Regulators have largely been – worked with us through this.
They appreciate the circumstances situation and they’ve been reasonable in most respects.
They’ve certainly been sympathetic to where we are and what we need; not all of them some move a lot slower than others.
Some states have been reluctant to do anything at all.
But in the main we haven’t really seen any change in their attitude towards working with us to get rate increases which are actuarially justified.
Do they come back and tell you look you asked for too much rate this year but come back next year and we might give you some more? I mean what sort of color do they give you in those cases? Well that is one of them.
We might get no response.
We’re working on it.
We might get a yes it’s approved.
We might get a yes it’s approved but we want you to take it in three different annual increases.
We might get it in here’s a small amount.
Come back next year and we’ll work with you to get it.
So kind of goes across the board as you’re describing.
Okay.
Well thank you very much and good luck.
Thank you Josh.
(Operator Instructions).
We will now take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Capital.
Please go ahead.
Good morning CNA.
With the Wilton Re transaction I mean you’ve showed Tom that you’re willing to make some tough decisions where businesses can’t get to your targeted ROE.
On the standard commercial business which seems like it for a long time has been obscuring much better results from Specialty what is the glide path to get that to an acceptable ROE? How much patience do you have to work though it? I mean you’ve shown a lot of patience to-date for sure.
And in an environment where you’re getting less rate do we really have to wait until the next up cycle to get to sort of attractive returns in that business or is there a path that you can get there sooner? I think a couple of things.
I think you had about 12 questions there Bob so I’ll try to remember a couple of them.
I think first of all we believe that the segment strategy has legs and will help commercial going forward.
And when I came here I would say the commercial book was very generic.
We just would write anything if it had premium dollars connected to it.
We have moved much more into specialization if you will.
So although it’s commercial business we’re trying to be more specialized whether that be technology or manufacturing its construction professional firms healthcare whatever it might be.
So the book is changing dramatically.
If you look at the mix of types of customers as well as the mix of product line so less worker’s comp.
Worker’s comp is more white collar today than it was years ago but this takes a lot of time to churn through it.
Yes we may appear to be patient but I can tell you we’re pretty impatient.
We are looking at this stuff all the time and constantly putting more tools to work to improve this and improving our pricing and predictive analytics.
So it’s all work in process but the commercial industry – commercial for the industry historically is not a business that makes a lot of money.
Specialty is where all the gravy is.
But we think we can improve commercial and the first goal is to get it clearly under 100 from a calendar year perspective and then keep driving it down towards 90 and we showed improvement this quarter.
We’ve showed improvement for the last few years and the legacy is these run-offs things that are adding to reserves as well as some severity that we’ve seen in commercial auto for example.
So the fact is we keep fine tuning the book but we think we’re going to get there.
And we do have the support of the agency force.
They like the strategy and are working with us.
So we’ll get there but it takes a long time when you have these legacy things that pop their head up.
We have been as you pointed out whether it’s the transaction with Wilton Re or the asbestos or the sale of Argentina work comp business which is not a good business FICOH when we sold our interest we have been cleaning up a lot of stuff so we just now are really – have our attention turned to getting commercial fixed in a big way and even long-term care made a little money this quarter.
So the fact is we keep hunkering down we’re going to get it done.
No I’m impressed with the strategy.
It just seems like the challenge may be tougher in an environment where rates are going up as much.
So what you’re saying is you do – go ahead I’m sorry.
What I would tell you Bob is it’s about risk selection and the quality of your pricing.
We are spending a lot of time working on pricing whether that be for small or for middle market whatever it might be.
So as I said in my comments this is not a period of time that you’re going to see the industry go like crazy right.
I mean people are protecting their best business but if we can have a superior offering to our competitors we’ll see the better risk and we’ll write them and that’s our plan.
So just like I said to the question about Europe if we don’t get the price we write we’re not going to write it.
So that stands true in the U.S.
too.
But we think there’s upside with the segment strategy and we will keep pushing it and hopefully these legacy things are going to be gone forever.
Good luck Tom.
Thank you Bob.
Thank you.
I will now take a next question from Adam Klauber from William Blair.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
With new business opportunities slowing down how does that impact your view on capital return and acquisitions? Thanks.
Adam maybe just to make the obvious point that you can see where we are stat surplus and we’re certainly generating more capital that we need to support the business and the business growth.
So at the appropriate time we’ll be making decisions about that.
Okay.
And then as far as worker’s comp how are the worker’s comp loss picks this year compared to last year and the year before? They are lower and have been behaving at least at this point.
We’re going to do comp review again next quarter which will be the second time we’ve done it this year.
Early indications are things are pretty stable in terms of the improvements that we had baked in and anticipated.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We will now take our next question from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
I guess two questions.
One is a follow-up on the reserve addition.
The bigger piece was the businesses you’re no longer in.
I’m wondering if you could specify what lines we’re talking about there? So really three lines Jay.
One is the overseas worker’s comp which we’d exited a while ago.
There were a number of programs there and there’s actually one last program that runs through December of this year.
So we’re not entirely out of that.
And these roughly a third of each of them.
So a third is overseas comp.
A third was this transportation E&amp;S so all these are excess in surplus lines.
E&amp;S transportation book and an E&amp;S habitational book which really – also came from GL.
Got it okay.
And then secondly I guess a follow-up on the last question on capital because not only the growth is not there you’re generating more than you need.
And you may have talked about this before and I just probably forget but the sale of Continental Assurance to Wilton Re how much capital does that sale free up? It frees up a little north of $200 million.
So between that and the excess capital so you’ll get to it when you get to it but what are some of the – can you share with us some of the thinking of what you might be doing with this excess capital which is only growing at this point? We would – of course we’d love to be able to put it to work in the business.
If we can’t put it to work in the business then we consider the options – those other options that we’ve had.
And we told you before share buyback is really not an option for us and we focused primarily on the common dividend and then of course last year we did declare a special dividend.
This is the middle of the year.
We didn’t think it’s an appropriate time particularly facing wind season.
Later in the year we’ll have a better sense of how the full year is going to play out earnings wise and that’s when we sit with the Board and come up with a recommendation to have those conversations.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you.
We’ll now take our next question from Ron Bobman from Capital Returns.
Please go ahead.
Just because Jay Cohen’s a lot older than me I don’t see why he gets to ask two sets of questions before me.
I had a question about – you made mention of a life settlement gain – I think you said gain not sale but can you describe that? I didn’t realize that the investment portfolio or sort of underwriting ops was in that business.
Could you describe that? Let me bring it back to you.
In the Life &amp; Group segment now that we’ve sold the life company and that’s in discontinued ops what’s left is the long-term care business a small amount of group business and viatical settlements a life settlements business.
So we’d insured or bought the life insurance on a high net worth individual who passed away died last quarter and we received the proceeds of that.
So you’ll see it if you look in the P&amp;L Ron in other income.
So I guess in some date passed we were in the business of buying these policies I guess but when did that stop? How far back were we active doing that? So 10 years 12 years ago.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
You had answered my other questions I had about the adverse development and run offs so thanks again.
All the best.
Thanks Ron.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
At this time there are no questions in the queue and I’d like to turn the call back over to Tom Motamed.
Thank you very much.
Have a good day.
That does conclude our conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Noah.
Good morning and welcome to the CNA's discussion of our 2014 third quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com.
With us on this morning’s call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom’s and Craig’s remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up to your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made in references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-K and 10-Q on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday November 3 2014.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have been provided in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
I would also like to remind you that presentation slides have again been posted to our website to provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
With that I'll turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
In the third quarter CNA produced net operating income of $182 million or $216 million if you exclude the previously announced $34 million charge related to the reinsurance transaction associated with the sale of our payout annuity business.
Our operating return on equity for the quarter was 6% without the reinsurance charge our return on equity would have been 7.1%.
Our Property &amp; Casualty combined ratio for the quarter was 96.1 excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 96.2% slightly higher than last years third quarter.
We are pleased with improvement in our Specialty and Commercial underlying loss ratios.
The third quarter loss ratios improved compared with the third quarter of 2013 and the year-to-date loss ratios improved compared with the full year 2013.
Specialty had a strong quarter with a combined ratio of 81.6% which was helped by almost a 11 points of favorable loss development.
Specialty's combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 91.8%.
Net written premium for the quarter was down 2% due to the termination of an MGA relationship as we discussed last quarter.
Rates increased 3% consistent with the second quarter and retention remained strong in the mid-80s.
Commercial's combined ratio was 108.3% for the quarter which included 7.5 points of unfavorable prior year development with higher severity in recent accident years for primary general liability being the largest component.
Commercial's combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 98.9%.
Commercial rates increased 4% overall and 5% in the US consistent with the second quarter.
Retention improved 3 points from last quarter to the mid 70s.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
As Tom mentioned the third quarter net operating income was $182 million or $0.68 per share and the operating return on equity was 6%.
Our net income was $213 million.
Adjusting for the payout annuity reinsurance charge earnings per share were $0.80 and the operating return on equity was 7.1%.
Our core P&amp;C operations produced net operating income of $241 million compared with $330 million in the third quarter of 2013.
The decrease was a result of lower net investment income and a reduced amount of favorable reserve development.
The P&amp;C loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 62.9% essentially flat with last years third quarter.
As non-catastrophes losses at Hardy offset improvements in Specialty and Commercial.
The year-to-date underlying loss ratio of 63.2% is now slightly more than a half point better than our full year 2013 result.
Our third quarter expense ratio was 33.1% consistent with full year 2013 results.
We continue to be pleased with the performance of our Specialty business.
Specialty’s third quarter combined ratio was 81.6% which included almost a 11 points of favorable development was more than a three and half point improvement as compared with the prior year quarter.
The loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 61.6% more than two points lower than last years third quarter.
On a year-to-date basis the accident year loss ratio was now almost one and a half points lower than where we ended full year 2013.
The improvements were due to continued refinement of the portfolio mix as well as earned rate increases in excess of loss cost trends.
Commercial's combined ratio of 108.3% included 1.9 points of catastrophe losses and 7.5 points of reserve strengthening as Tom described.
Commercial’s third quarter combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 98.9% almost a half point better than last years third quarter.
The underlying loss ratio was 64% slightly better than the prior year period.
On year-to-date basis the underlying loss ratio is now almost one point better than the full year 2013.
We continue to aggressively manage our Commercial book and pursue rate targets that are built upon differentiated pricing tied to expected profitability of individual accounts.
Net written premium was down 7% compared with the prior year quarter reflective of the underwriting actions we have taken.
Hardy had a net operating loss of $15 million in the third quarter with a combined ratio of 112.9% including over four points of unfavorable premium development.
The loss ratio was affected by large aviation losses which accounted for approximately 30 points plus higher than expected attritional losses in our marine cargo book.
The expense ratio increase was driven by the effect of foreign currency exchange rates as well as by costs related to moving to a service company operating model including real estate cost.
The Life &amp; Group segment produced $42 million net operating loss in the quarter which includes the $34 million charge attributed to a reinsurance transaction tied to the sale of our structured settlement annuities.
As I explained last quarter in addition to the sale of our life company CAC we reinsured a block of annuities from our Bermuda subsidiary to Wilton Re.
The transaction was structured on a funds withheld basis meaning that we maintain legal ownership for the assets associated with the transaction but Wilton Re assumes the economic risk.
At the inception of the contract the market value of the assets was $34 million higher than the $150 million book value causing us to recognize the $34 million loss.
Over time we would expect the $34 million loss on reinsurance to unwind as the assets are sold or mature and the gain or loss is recognized.
Excluding the impact of the payout annuity reinsurance transaction the Life &amp; Group loss for the quarter was $8 million compared with the $33 million loss in the third quarter of last year.
The improvement was driven by improved results in our long-term care business which was favorable affected by morbidity rate increase actions and persistency.
Results are also benefited from higher net investment income due to a higher invested asset base.
Our corporate segment which primarily includes corporate expenses produced a net operating loss of $17 million compared with a $26 million loss in the third quarter of 2013.
The improvement was driven by a reduction in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance receivables.
Our investment portfolio’s pre-tax net unrealized gains stood at approximately $3.2 billion at quarter end roughly equivalent to the end of second quarter.
Our statutory surplus at quarter end was $11.4 billion.
We continue to maintain significant dividend capacity at the insurance operating company level.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company level were approximately $1 billion at quarter end up significantly from 2013 year end due to the proceeds for February debt offering to pre-fund our upcoming December maturity.
In the third quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity improved to approximately $460 million.
Cash principle repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $950 billion.
Third quarter after-tax net investment income of $346 million decreased $40 million from the prior year results driven by limited partnership income which returned 1% versus 3.5% in the same period last year.
Overall portfolio allocations did not change significantly in the third quarter.
Average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Fixed income assets that support our long duration life-like liabilities had an effective duration of 11.1 years at quarter end.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.1 years at quarter end.
These durations are both in line with portfolio targets.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
Before turning it back to Tom I want to highlight a pension settlement charge that will flow through our fourth quarter financial results.
We recently offered a lump-sum payment opportunity to about 11 000 vested pension plan participants who are no longer employed by CNA.
The high end of the estimated range of the after tax charge which is dependent on the participant acceptance rate of the offer is approximately $65 million.
The charge will be recognized when the lump-sum payments are made from the pension plan assets in December.
The corresponding charge associated with the settlement will have no effect on shareholders equity as the settlement charge represents immediate recognition of the proportional share of prior unrealized actuarial losses already reflected in shareholders equity.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we take your questions I would like to offer a few comments on the current state of the market and on our European operations.
Since we spoke in August there is not been a change in our view of the market.
We continue to see limited exposure growth and competitive pricing with some lines of business more aggressive than others.
However our strategy is not changed and more importantly our underwriting improvement in recent years is not solely based on rate increases.
We continue to achieve underlying loss ratio improvement in Commercial &amp; Specialty as we shift our book to higher margin business and exit poor performing accounts and classes.
For example since 2011 we have successfully changed our mix of business in the US from 73% in our focus segments to 80% so far this year.
We have also demonstrated discipline in our approach to new business where our reduced volumes reflect our willingness to avoid inadequately priced opportunities.
Earlier Craig discussed our transition to a service company operating model for CNA Europe and Hardy.
This was one element of a broader strategy to streamline our international management which was further enhanced in August by the appointment of David Brosnan as Chief Executive of CNA Europe and Hardy with oversight of CNA Canada.
This operating model will facilitate our ability to efficiently serve the Lloyds market the European local markets and the unique and expanding needs of multinational customers.
With that we'll be glad to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll take our first question from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes.
Thank you.
A couple of questions.
The first is I've had several quarters now of adverse development in the Commercial segment.
After years of that segment being I guess relatively benign from a loss standpoint in fact seeing favorable development.
And I was just wondering if you can talk a little bit more about what you're seeing and did you make sort of an effort to get all this behind you? Was there a concerted effort in this quarter to say hey let's try to nip this in the bud?   Jay well the answer to the last question is no.
So there is concerted effort to try to pile on or nip it in the bud I think a similar question was asked of us last quarter.
And so you can count us it hopefully has reputation that we act on things as we see them.
I think what's kind of plagued us here in Commercial has been you know we've gotten out of a number businesses that we thought were unprofitable those have continued to be even a little worse than we thought they were and that bleed that’s been little slower has continued and even contributes a bit to this quarter.
This quarters results in Commercial were driven primarily by general liabilities severity which is something that surprised us in terms of direction it was headed.
As we really shifted our book from lessor [ph] of premises ops book to things that have more severity.
So I think that’s a bit of a – that is was an action to catch up in our perspective going forward.
So we are you know disappointed by having to report these and we work hard to get our reserves accurate all the time and we think we have acted appropriately.
So we're not – we certainly not holding back on any thing.
Yes.
I think I would just add to that Jay that you know last quarter we talked about Commercial Auto and that has popped its ugly head for the industry.
So I don’t think that was anything unique to us.
But we recognized it you know we are dealing with it.
The good news is it’s a small portion of our book today.
Its gets smaller all the time.
The international work comp which we have exited most of it you know we are still paying the price for some of that but once again it was one of our exit strategies to get out of that business.
So I think you know we are dealing with the things in a timely fashion when I come up but clearly severity has been the issue.
It has not been frequency.
And if you look at our claim counts our claim counts are dropping both on the outstanding number of claims as well as new arising claims.
So I think it’s a reflection of the changing mix of business but we are paying for sins of the past.
Got it.
And I guess because a lot of the reserve changes you made were in businesses that you've exited.
It doesn't have much of an effect on your current year accident pick then? Well the general liability does yes.
So you're right about the majority in the past and in the past calls.
But certainly the GL if we look at GL severity does have an effect on our pick in the current accident year.
So in other words it would have been proved more if not for the reflection of this severity.
Got it.
And then the second question I guess we're seeing premiums falling now in all of your segments and part of that is obviously underwriting discipline which is what we don't want to see.
For many companies when premiums start to fall which obviously is potentially a negative from a profitability standpoint.
The – one of the options they have is to well this will free up capital we can buy back stock.
That's not much of an option for you.
Obviously you have other capital management leverage you can pull.
My question is does it free up capital for you? As you see premiums going down and your business mix is changing.
And that can change your capital needs too is this affecting your view of how much capital you need? Yes.
So obviously it’s a – that growth or prospects of growth are a significant input to our capital plans and capital perspectives going forward.
Okay.
I still had the – well that's it for now.
I'll circle back if I have other stuff.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Hello good morning.
It's Chris Martin today.
So the one question that we have is sort of as we get closer to 1-1 what potential changes might you be thinking about for your reinsurance purchase? With the current reinsurance pricing where it is and how some of this pressure and some of the more favorable terms have started to show up in Casualty lines.
Might you start to be thinking about any changes in how you purchase that moving forward? Thanks.
We are certainly actively engaged in paying attention to what's going on in the reinsurance market.
But we don’t have any – no plans at this moment to be buying anything differently.
Our Casualty you referenced Casualty you see how profitable our Specialty business is which is highly Casualty.
So it doesn’t seem to make much sense to us to give away that profit given the diversification we have in the book you know the typical desire of reinsurance purchases is to shed severity and volatility so no reason think about it doing it.
So we're in the midst of negotiating or beginning to plan for the negotiation of the renewal of our Property Cat treaty and we buy a war comp the Cat treaty and those are underway.
But as we look at it we don’t see anything that would be particularly attractive or add to the value of CNA longer term in the reinsurance market.
Got it.
Thanks.
That's really helpful.
And then just a second thing.
In the Hardy business you'd mentioned that I think you had said there were 13 points were attributed to the aviation losses.
Can you sort of talk about what sort of or maybe other lines that you said had higher than average attritional losses? Well the other lines that had attritional losses were marine cargo.
So we had quite few cash in transit type losses over the quarter.
And how many points do you think that would be about? Well that the aviation losses – in total both of them were about $20 million worth of losses.
So whatever the delta is between the 13 points.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
That's all I have today.
Good luck.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Good morning CNA.
What was the adjustment in the receivables on collectible re-insurance? It was about $14 million less reduction.
Okay.
And the Wilton Re would you have a pretax number for that? That pre tax was 36 so 3.5 was about the same thing Bob because there was Bermuda.
And I think if you went back and looked we – I think we had a slide detailing it in the last quarter.
Okay.
Will do.
How would you handicap the likelihood of a special dividend going forward? Well and maybe the best way to answer it is that I am not sure Jay was trying to get at that earlier.
That as we sit around and talk about it.
We recognize that we start with a very strong capital position as a company.
The earnings even though they haven’t been quite as high as we – Tom and I would like them to be they've been consistent and very steady.
We'd love to see an opportunity to put that capital that we're continuing to accumulate the work to grow the business.
But I would say there is no potential for that moment as we're looking out for it.
So at the end of the year we'll complete our review of at year end 2014 and what the 2014 results were.
We'll add in what our outlook is for 2015 and then we'll decide whether and what to do with the common and or special dividend.
Okay.
That's a thoughtful answer.
Finally on long-term care you do a great job in the K and Q of sizing up the various sensitivity analysis.
I can't remember if you do a year-end review or it comes up periodically.
But it seems like you got interest rates lower but experience and pricing improved.
If you had to sort of weigh the battle of those two countervailing forces does it come out sort of more positive more negative or stay tuned? Well we do well first you're right we do a – our gross premium evaluation review at long-term in the fourth quarter.
We did complete the claim review of long-term care in the third quarter and the outcome of that was actually a slight positive change on about $2 billion of reserves.
The gross premium review was underway.
As you said the big components of morbidity I wouldn’t give our results out over the last year.
I wouldn’t expect any adverse for morbidity persistency even though it’s been better this than last is still running a little worse than what our expectation would be.
And interest rates as you said would be the biggest driver.
So you know what the dividend I mean you look up and you can see the difference in the spot rate on this 30 is almost 50 basis points lower September 30 of this year against September 30 of the year ago.
But we're really looking at the forward curve that we're thinking about which would be a bigger delta.
So that will be the bigger driver of the outcome.
And I think all things being equal we'd expect some pressure on margin coming out of that interest rate review but I can't tell you what the outcome is exactly….
I thought there was a fourth factor which is that price increases that you're able to get… Yes those are.
Expectations… Yes that’s true and those are slightly better than we expected.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you Bob.
We'll take our next question from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
Yes.
Good morning everyone.
Over the last couple of years you've obviously focused on weeding out businesses that you CNA didn't have a necessarily a value added edge on.
When you look at the portfolio today how far are you in terms of weeding out those businesses do you think that you are? Is the CNA portfolio a enviable collection of businesses? And if so why do think that the gap is so persistent between your pricing and peers profitability on underwriting at this point?  Yes I think we still believe in the focused segments.
We think they are the right places to be and we are not going change any direction on that at this time.
I would say this but you know the industry has gotten rate and that rate has probably helped everybody a large degree.
But as I said in my remarks and I believe Craig said the same thing we're really trying to manage the mix of business or I think of lines of business within a segment.
We're really trying to do a much better job tiering the best customers from the lease profitable customers.
So it is work in progress but we think we're getting more sophisticated of it and as we put more analytics in place to really analyze what the exposures are for these customers we think its moving in the right direction.
As Craig mentioned the loss ratio improvement is a little slower than we would like but it still is improving and we are throwing out this legacy business which has hurt us.
But we expect we'll continue to push into the segments and we will do better over time.
We think we have the expertise to do that.
Do you think just with that analytics set up there if the markets generally stayed stable.
With what you have in place right now there is margin improvement to be found just in letting things play out as you set them up today? Yes I think you know we told you about rates for the quarter you know rates are still pretty good actually in Commercial September was the best month of the third quarter and if we looked at October October looks pretty good.
And so… On what's without rates? I didn’t hear you.
I am sorry without out rate? Can you achieve margin without rate… Yes that’s the whole issue of tiering in other words figure out which is the best accounts and how you keep them.
And the ones that aren’t that good you get rid of.
That’s what you call loss business.
So we think there is you know room there and also managing the mix.
So we have accounts that may have heard us from workers comp or auto perspective and we find ways to try to keep the best pieces of the accounts throw out the worst.
So all work in progress would be pretty consistent with other markets do with their business and how they manage their portfolio.
But mix of business is big deal.
One example is less blue collar work comp and more white collar work comp which effects the proportion of business we write in you know some white collar industries whether that be law firms financial institutions et cetera.
So that’s a lot of behind the scenes stuff.
But yes we think that’s all going to help and continues help we get better at it.
Well thank you.
And good luck.
Thanks.
Thanks Ross.
We'll take our next question from Adam Klauber with William Blair.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
A follow-up on data and analytics.
What are some of the next steps in 2015 2016 as far as rolling out better data and analytics?   As you know it’s a very big area you know people talk about big data you got to kind to distill that to down the ground.
But we are looking at data and analytics that helps us assess risk so that’s kind of on the underwriting side as well as on the claim side you know how come we get people back to work sooner or what we can see relative to claims that can be helpful.
We do have some pretty good analytics in Specialty and our Specialty results we're pretty proud of.
We have tool now that we rolled out on automobile which is trouble line for us so we expect to see more improvement in auto although it is small line for us as overall percentage.
So you know auto and work comp are two areas that seem to be as well as some of the Specialty lines whether you look at lawyers or some other areas.
The fact is these are all things that are going to help us make better decisions as to what business we keep and how we price it.
Yes.
Adam this is Craig.
So it is a ongoing sort of think of it is ongoing than some fundamental add and replace.
And we're probably in second generation of both predictive tools and pricing mechanisms and this now become an annual you know updating and perspective than improvement.
So there are some fundamental things.
We're always building and improving.
Like we introduced a new property product and new property price in a year ago and a new GL pricing this year and new GL product that goes with the property product next year together you know do the same auto.
But I think that really more in terms of the continuous iterative improvement that Tom was referring to.
So we are good generation two and we're actively working on generation three and making sure that that something that’s built into the fabric of the place that we do as part of the regular rhythm better than as an event.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then do acquisitions become more likely given two things.
One within P&amp;C there's really very little growth out there.
And two you continue to do a good job of narrowing your focus so does that give you more room to do acquisitions more on your focus.
Obviously it's probably not out of your focus but in your focus?  Yes.
I would say we always have our eyes open as to what might be out there you know we had said for a long time that we prefer to do something that is a bolt-on which we define as less integration risk.
So whether that was CNA surety or that was Hardy but there really was no kiosk around making those acquisitions.
So we like things like that.
And you know we've gotten rid of things that didn’t fit the strategy going forward.
So we keep our eyes open.
We have to – we have to asses the risk of buying anything but quite honestly the first foremost objective is we want to do a better job with our portfolio.
And that’s where we're focused and if something meets our eye and we like it and we think it will help the profitability of the firm we will make a decision.
Is there a pipeline of potential deals out there that would make sense or are they're just not a good group? There's always deals out there but is there just not a reasonable pipeline out there? Okay let’s put it this way we got list everybody has a list.
We have list you know and the question is do they want to sell is it the right fit what is going to cost is it going increase the shareholder value over time all of those questions have to be answered.
So but you know we have a pretty good idea what's going on out there and I think as the market continues to become less driven by rate and margins maybe become compressed for some companies may think about their future differently and you know we're willing to talk to people.
So but I think in this kind of low growth environment you are going to see more M&amp;A going forward.
I think that’s true unless all sudden rates go up and the economy booms and exposure goes up and all of that kind of stuff.
But don’t see that myself.
Right.
Thanks.
And then just one follow-up.
I think you said the competitive conditions really haven't changed.
I think you said you're having a good September.
Would you say that is the Commercial more competitive than the Specialty or you're not seeing really a differential on that? I know each line is different but just in general? You said that each line is different everybody wants to be in the Specialty business its got a nice wing to it so there is a lot of competition in Specialty and you know somebody nipping it your feed on lawyers professional or something else but I don’t think its really changed much and the one thing I look at is everybody is trying to retain their business there is very little good new business opportunities out there at least from our standpoint what we see coming out is fairly distress there really isn’t a lot of good stuff.
So people are putting their renewals to that earlier and trying to keep their retentions up and get some rate and I think that’s what we saw in the third quarter and we saw it in the second quarter and I expect the fourth quarter will up much like to prior two quarters.
Right.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks a lot.
Yes.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll take our next question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Yes just from a modeling standpoint the -- obviously you made a lot of changes at Hardy from an expense standpoint.
And in fact the underwriting expenses the overhead expenses there have come down quite a bit.
The question I have is is the number we're seeing in the third quarter is that in your view a reasonable run rate to look at going forward or will there still be a downward trend?   Hi Jay.
There will still be a downward trend but not I mean we haven’t completed the real estate moves and some other people related move that would add some expense to the fourth quarter.
But in 2015 that expense ratio it should start coming down pretty considerably.
There is about and FX impact in that number but now which is pretty meaningful and its about 1.5 little less than 1.5 of those integration combination cost this quarter but that’s – we would expect that to improve considerably but not until 2015.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Thanks so much.
You're welcome.
(Operator Instructions).
And with no further questions at this time I'd like to turn the call back to Tom Motamed for any additional or closing remarks.
See you in 2015.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corp’s Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Randy.
Good morning and welcome to the CNA's discussion of our 2014 fourth quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com.
With us on this morning’s call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom’s and Craig’s remarks on our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made in references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-Q and 10-K on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday February 9 2015.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have been provided in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
I would also like to remind you that the presentation slides have again been posted to our website to provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
In the fourth quarter CNA produced net operating income of $205 million essentially flat with the fourth quarter of 2013.
Net operating income was $260 million if you exclude the previously announced pension settlement charge.
Our results this quarter reflect continued underwriting margin improvement in our property casualty operations as well as a meaningful contribution from favorable reserve development in our specialty and international segments.
In addition to our commercial and specialty segments we now report an international segment that includes the results of Hardy CNA Europe and Canada.
As discussed on our last earnings call we have aligned our international operations under the leadership of Dave Branson.
This move was made to ensure that our multinational capabilities are seamlessly delivered to our agents brokers and customers in all geographies.
It also emphasizes the importance of the multinational marketplace to CNA.
Slide four of our earnings presentation highlights the property and casualty segment realignment.
For the full year CNA produced net operating income of $849 million compared with $901 million in 2013.
Of note our property and casualty operations delivered over $1 billion of operating income for the second year in a row while improving the underlying margin by more than a full point.
Our property and casualty combined ratio for the quarter was 91.8 an improvement of 3.2 points compared with the fourth quarter of 2013.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 93.6 or seven tenths of a point better than last year’s fourth quarter.
Specialty had another strong quarter with a combined ratio of 88.4 which was helped by two points of favorable loss development.
Specialties combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 90.4.
Rates increased 3% consistent with the second and third quarters.
Retention remained strong in the mid-80s.
Commercial had a better quarter with a combined ratio of 96.8.
Excluding catastrophes and development it was 95.6.
Commercial rates increased 4%.
Retention improved more than three points from the third quarter to the mid-70s.
International also had a good quarter with a combined ratio of 86.9 including more than 13 points of favorable development primarily from CNA Europe.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 98.
Rates decreased six tenths of a point in the quarter a slight improvement from the two prior quarters.
Reflective of our financial strength and consistent earnings we are pleased to announce a special dividend of $2 per share in addition to our quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
As Tom mentioned we reported fourth quarter net operating income of $205 million or $0.76 per share.
The operating return on equity was 6.7%.
Our results for the quarter adjusted for the $55 million after-tax pension settlement charge with $260 million or $0.96 per share and an operating return on equity of 8.4%.
Our core P&amp;C operations produced net operating income of $314 million compared with $340 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The decrease is largely attributable to lower investment income.
Underwriting profitability for the quarter was solid across all of our property casualty segments.
We continued to demonstrate steady progress in our underwriting loss ratio as we moved throughout the year.
P&amp;C’s underwriting loss ratio was 61.4 for the fourth quarter which brings the full year results one point better than 2013.
Specialty and commercial 2014 non-cat current action year loss ratio for the full year improved by 1.9 and 1.5 points respectively.
While international’s underlying loss ratio increased by 3.1 points due to several large losses in our aviation and cargo business at Hardy.
The property casualty operations expense ratio was 32% in the fourth quarter and 32.9% for the full year.
The ratio this quarter benefited from an insurance receivable recovery and other one-time items that had an approximate 1.5 point positive effect.
Specialties underlying loss ratio in the quarter was 60.1% compared with 58.9% in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The unfavorable period over period comparisons was driven by the significant favorable revaluation of the 2013 accident year that we made in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Specialties full year 2014 accident year loss ratio was 61.7% almost two points lower than where we ended in 2013.
Commercials accident year non-cat ratio continued to improve this quarter.
The reported underlying loss ratio this quarter was 63% 2.5 points lower than the prior year period results.
Remember the loss ratio improvement reported in the quarter reflects a catch up adjustment for the full year.
We would point you to the 2014 full year results of 64.6% which is 1.5 points lower than where we ended 2013 as the more clear indication of our progress.
The insurance receivable recovery and the other one-time items that I mentioned earlier were entirely reflected in commercial results and lowered its reported fourth quarter of 2014 expense ratio by approximately 2.5 points.
Absent the benefit of that recovery commercial expense ratio for the quarter would have been approximately 35%.
International’s underlying fourth quarter loss ratio was 60.3% or 5 points higher than the fourth quarter of 2013.
International’s full year 2014 underlying loss ratio of 60.3% was 3.1 points higher than the full year of 2013.
The unfavorable comparison for both time periods were due to the large aviation and cargo losses that I mentioned earlier.
Life &amp; Group produced a $34 million net operative loss in the quarter compared with a $6 million gain in the fourth quarter last year.
The unfavorable comparison was primarily driven by morbidity in our long-term care business partially offset by higher investment income.
Additionally the prior year period results included a $22 million non-recurrent benefit.
Page 15 of our earnings presentation shows the results of our annual analysis of our long-term care active life reserves.
While you’re flipping to that slide let me remind you that in the third quarter we performed our annual review of our long-term care claim reserves.
That study resulted in a modest $9 million pretax reduction of claim reserves and provided a relatively neutral backdrop going into the fourth quarter analysis.
Looking back to the fourth quarter of 2013 the GAAP margin on our long-term care active life reserves was $350 million.
As a result of the analysis completed in the fourth quarter of 2014 that margin has decreased to $100 million.
The margin reduction had no impact on our fourth quarter earnings.
While the analysis is very granular and includes numerous factors the four primary variables driving analysis are investment yields morbidity persistency and anticipated premium rate increases.
The largest driver of 2014 margin change was the change in our estimated future investment yields on assets backing the long-term care liabilities.
The drop in investment market yields over the course of 2014 affected our future interest rate assumptions which influenced the discount rate.
The decrease in the discount rate assumption resulted in a $640 million reduction in the GAAP margin.
Somewhat offsetting this impact was our actual investment performance over the year and our updated assumptions for future investment allocation and duration positioning.
While we reported favorable morbidity results in the first half of 2014 the morbidity trend over the past few years including our results in the fourth quarter have been somewhat volatile.
We rolled the analysis forward one year and updated our assumptions to reflect this volatility which resulted in a $195 million reduction in margins.
Finally we updated our assumptions related to our anticipated premium rate increases.
Based on our historical experience with rate increase approvals and reasonable expectations regarding regulatory action the impact was an improvement of $260 million in margins.
Hopefully the additional disclosure of our specific margin and both the moving pieces within the GAAP analysis as well as the significance of those movements is helpful to your understanding.
Consistent with prior years our 10-K will provide sensitivity information on the key assumptions when it is filed later this month.
Our corporate segment produced a net operating loss of $75 million compared with a $140 million loss in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Both periods were affected by significant charges.
The fourth quarter of 2014 includes the $55 million after tax pension settlement charge and the fourth quarter of 2013 included $123 million after tax charge related to our 2010 asbestos environment and pollution loss portfolio transfer.
Excluding these two charges both quarters produced results in line with our expectations.
Our investment portfolio’s pretax net unrealized gain stood at approximately $3.4 billion at quarter end an increase of 7.5% since the end of the third quarter.
Statutory surplus at December 31 2014 was an estimated $11.2 billion for the combined insurance operating companies where we continue to maintain significant dividend capacity.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company were approximately $500 million at the year end consistent with 2013.
The reduction from our third quarter of 2014 total reflects the $500 million payoff of our December debt maturity.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to about one year of our annual net corporate obligations.
In the fourth quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity improved to approximately $400 million.
Cash principle repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $1.1 billion.
Net investment income was $511 million pretax in the fourth quarter.
Income from limited partnership investments was $64 million compared with $148 million in the prior year period.
The full year 2014 rate of return from our limited partnerships was strong at 10% but down from last year’s exceptional 18% return.
Income from our fixed maturity securities in the fourth quarter was $447 million pretax down slightly from the prior year period but essentially unchanged on an after tax basis of $322 million.
Average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Fixed income assets to support our long duration Life &amp; Group liabilities had an effective duration of 10.5 years at quarter end.
The duration decreased by six tenths of the year during the fourth quarter reflecting the impact of lower interest rates and is not reflective of any change to the portfolio’s composition.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which report our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was four years at quarter end.
These durations are both in line with portfolio targets.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
We continue to maintain a very conservative capital structure.
All our capital adequacy and credit metrics are well above our internal targets and current ratings.
This sustained capital strength along with the other capital management action taken over the course of the year and the strength of our current earnings all contributed to the board’s decision to declare the $2 a share special dividend and the continuation of the $0.25 per share quarterly common shareholder dividends.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
As we have discussed on prior calls over the last few years we have been focused on improving our margins primarily through underwriting actions and rate increases.
We have made progress.
However as expected these moves have affected our premium volume.
Our underwriting actions have included exiting programs such as overseas worker compensation and select risk transportation.
We also have taken action on unprofitable small business classes non-renewed poor accounts of all sizes and have been disciplined in avoiding inadequately priced new business opportunities.
With our customer’s segment strategy we’ve successfully changed our mix of business to more profitable industries such as financial institutions and technology.
For example since 2011 we have changed our US mix of business and customer segments from 73% to 83%.
We are confident that we have taken the right actions and that our customer segment and international strategies will continue to produce better margins over time.
With that we would be glad to take your questions.
[Operator instruction] We’ll take our first question from Jay Cohen from Bank of America Merrill Lynch I just wanted to follow up on the comments you had about the expense ratio.
I unfortunately kind of missed those numbers.
If you could just go over that one more time Craig.
What I said Jay was that we had insurance receivable recovery and some other onetime items in the fourth quarter that lowered the reported expense ratio for P&amp;C overall at a point and a half.
For commercial it was all reflected in the commercial segments.
So in commercial segment it would have had slightly more than a 2.5 point impact of lowering the expense ratio.
And nothing in specialty then? Nothing in specialty.
Okay.
And then just a request -- since you changed the format of your presentation it would be really helpful since we model out each segment quarterly to get some historical data on the new segment kind of looking backward that would allow us to model it going forward.
Jay I understand you had a conversation with James Anderson about that and we’ll prepare that in short order for you.
That's great.
Thank you.
You are welcome We'll now take our nest question from Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
It’s Amit Kumar from Macquarie.
Congrats on the numbers and the special.
Just I guess two or three quick follow-ups.
One is a broader question Tom.
Just going back on your opening remarks I was curious if you could share with us how do you think about further ROE expansion from here based on the actions that you have taken? And I guess overlay that with the current market conditions.
Is there further room? Or I guess the 8ish -- 8% 9% is that sort of a number we should be thinking about going forward? I certainly agree with you that the market is becoming more challenging from a rate standpoint but you know we’ve been saying for a long time it's not only rates it’s risk selection keeping your powder dry not writing poor business for the sake of the topline.
So all our efforts are really to improve the loss ratio and there are lots of things that go into that other than rate increase.
It's how you manage the mix focusing on the segments etc.
etc.
So our objective is to constantly focus on improving the loss ratio and that will help us in a decelerating rate environment even though we are doing okay on rates today.
We have nothing to be embarrassed about relative to our performance on rate.
It is more challenging but we keep moving.
We did say 10% might take a little longer to get there in this current of environment but we are going to forge ahead and we had nice quarter and we are going to bask in the glory for about an hour and get back to work.
Fair enough.
The other question I had was the discussion on new business.
In specialty and commercial new business dipped sharply this quarter.
And maybe I'm thinking about this wrong.
If you are better equipped for risk selection I would have thought that it would show some reversal in trends.
Is that more of a macro issue than a micro issue? Once again when you look at premium look at retention.
So our retention has been lower than most of our peers because we have been churning out blocks of business as well as weeding out business that we didn’t like.
We start from a you might say further starting point that others because of the retention but retention did improve 3 points in commercial in the fourth quarter compared to the third.
So we like that trend.
We are being very picky on what we write.
Automobile we are very concerned about automobile as you’ve heard from others in the industry.
If you look at that we are paring that back.
If you look at workers comp in construction we are paring that back.
Everything is about margin improvement.
And as I've said in the past if we have to get more rate we are willing to give up retention.
Along with that we are willing to give up growth if we can keep the margins moving in the right direction.
Good color on that.
And finally this might be for Craig.
The discussion on aviation and cargo can you expand on that? Maybe put some numbers around that and just give some more color on that.
Thanks.
We actually mentioned it in earlier calls Amit and we can kind of -- James can get those for you and give you that detail.
But our aviation business we were on a couple of the two Malaysian airline crashes Tripoli Airport.
It's probably something in order of $12.5 million of losses just from those three incidents as well as some other additional expected losses in aviation that in marketplace and some cargo losses also out of Hardy that occurred really second third and fourth quarter.
Got it.
No what I was trying to ask is was there anything extraordinary about those losses or is that a function of the book or that was just the normal course of business losses? I'd say those were pretty extraordinary losses the ones that I just mentioned and not anticipated but it's also reflective of just the health of the marketplace.
Got it.
No I was asking about the quality of the book for the cargo losses and other losses.
Yeah I think the quality of the book we feel is fine for the cargo losses.
Okay.
That's what I was trying to ask.
I apologize.
I phrased the question poorly.
That's all I have.
And thanks for all the answers and good luck for the future.
[Operator instruction] we’ll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel from Janney Capital.
Good morning CAN.
I've got some long-term care questions.
On a numbers perspective can you quantify the morbidity penalty in the fourth quarter that ran through operations? Number two the 10-K disclosure that will come out do you have a sense for what the sensitivity to 50 basis points and 100 basis points on the tenure or the discount rate might be? And I do have one follow-up on that.
Let’s start with the 10-K sensitivity.
A 50 basis point reductions in the discount rate would be roughly equal to the 640 reduction we showed in margin impact this year.
That’s what you would have been in the 10-K a year ago.
I don’t recall what the 100 is but it's roughly double that amount.
And then as far as … Last year was exponential this year it is not? Remember last year we did not disclose the specific margin remember.
And so therefore what we are disclosing was the impact on reserves or earnings.
The margin would have been first subtracted from the impact of it and this year since we have little to no margin you’re seeing the full amount.
So that’s simply the difference Bob.
We are hoping that with the expanded disclosure and showing you what the specific movements were and then when you get the sensitivity charge you’ll have a good sense of the business.
That’s helpful.
The morbidity really the difference -- remember we’ve run on order of around $15 million of loss a quarter.
So the difference between the 15 and the 34 is pretty much rough justice of the morbidity worse results this quarter than expected.
I got it.
If I could just get a little more color on your page 15 disclosure which is very helpful.
You mentioned that you were able to offset the 640 down with a couple of items with rate increases.
But updated investment strategies how are you able to get $325 million? Is that more of a credit risk or more duration or --? It’s more duration and it’s also importantly the fact that we are actually earning a much higher yield in our portfolio than we had baked into our assumptions a year ago.
And we’re able to shift a significant number of longer duration higher yielding assets into the portfolio as a result of a life sale.
So it’s those three things together as well as some duration lengthening in terms of what our expectations are that gives us the positive.
Okay great.
And one final question if I may going back to sort of standard commercial.
Tom you seem to have a little bit more of a bounce in your step talking about that line.
Is it fair to say that you think that you’ve got your arms around the problem on tracking and comp with the rate actions that you are taking? I think we’ve always had an handle on what we needed to do.
And whether it is international work comps or whether it’s the tracking books there are a couple of other things that we’ve gotten out of totally.
And then you’re always trying to improve your existing ongoing portfolio.
We think we are doing much better at that.
What we find is that when we tier our business and the higher tiers are the best tiers we continue to get rate and we have very good retention.
And in the lower tiers the less profitable or marginal accounts we don’t have very good retention because we are pushing rate very hard and we are getting good rate increases on the stuff that sticks.
So it’s always work in progress Bob but I think we are executing at a better level today than we may have a few years ago.
We have better tools.
We are on top of this stuff.
And as I said earlier we are not going to write business for the sake of writing business in a decelerating rate environment where all of our competitors are putting the best accounts to bed early.
You’ve got to be choosy but we think our execution is working very well in commercial.
And we think it will continue to do so.
Thanks Tom.
We’ll take our next question from Josh Shanker from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Congratulations everyone.
I was wondering if you can give really guidance but when you think about the year does fourth quarter seem more indicative of the P&amp;C earnings power or is the full year more indicative of what’s going on? And my guess would be that maybe the loss ratio is more indicative on the fourth quarter but the expense ratio for the full year.
Do you have thoughts about that? I would think full year.
Take the full-year numbers.
And so you just have a lot of things go your way in the fourth quarter you think? Well it's nice to have a win behind your back.
And remember Josh that in the fourth quarter as we’ve re-evaluate our action year loss ratio you get a pretty significant cumulative catch up.
For example in specialty we reduced the full year loss ratio expectation by four tenths of a point you get a four times impact on the fourth quarter.
So you can look at that in those slides.
You can see exactly what I'm talking about in terms of that differentiation which is why we always point to you to the full year re-evaluation of loss ratio is a better indication of our run rate where we are going forward and what progress we’ve made.
I see and appreciate it.
Another question is on the long-term care.
To the extent to which you like having a cushion let's say interest rates next year or this year that we are in right now didn't go your way and you were forced to take some reserving action to conflict that would you take reserving action that would also give you a bigger cushion as well and increase the size of the cushion or would you merely want to keep yourself in line with numbers? It's actually fairly well prescribed.
If your margin is -- if you broached the margin and you have to re-evaluate or unlock you unlock at zero.
Now we also then of course would be reevaluating all just like we did this year we are re-evaluating all of our assumptions relative to the gross premium evaluation.
That’s the best way I could -- that’s how we would think about it.
Okay.
Let's hope we don't have to think about it so much.
Thank you and good luck in the coming year.
[Operator instructions] we’ll take our next question from Mike Zaremski from BAM Funds Good morning.
Regarding the helpful LTC disclosure on slide 15 could you provide some context surrounding the planned rate increase by method of $260 million? I guess for example are those filed rate increases or increases you expect to seek over let's see the next let’s say one two or three years? Thanks.
Michael that’s a good question.
It's really there are three components to them and first fit them into the category.
They are all planned rate increases.
So not something that we anticipate might happen a long time in the distance.
It could be rate increases that we’ve already filed.
They have already been approved but they haven’t been implemented.
They could be rate increases that we’ve filed and we are waiting approval and based on conversation of judgment we expect them to be approved and implemented but they could come in a third bucket where we are planning on filing them over the foreseeable future and we would anticipate based on conversations in our own experience with regulators that they would be approved at those levels.
Got it.
Thanks for the color [Operator instructions] At this time with no question in the queue I'll turn it over to management.
Okay thank you very much.
We’ll see you next quarter.
This does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corp First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to the CNA's discussion of our 2015 first quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com.
With us on this morning’s call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig’s remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made in references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning these risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-Q and 10-K on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday May 4 2015.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP financial measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
I would also like to remind you that presentation slides have again been posted to our website to provide additional perspective on our financial and operating trends.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
<br>In the first quarter CNA produced net operating income of $225 million an increase of 18% from the first quarter of 2014.
Our results reflect continued underwriting margin improvement in property and casualty operations lower catastrophes and strong limited partnership returns.
Our property and casualty combined ratio for the quarter was 98.9% an improvement of 2.7 points compared with the prior year quarter.
Excluding the catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 96.7% which is a half point better than last year's first quarter.
Specialty continued to produce good results in an increasingly competitive environment the first quarter combined ratio was 94.6% a half point higher than the first quarter of 2014 as 1.1 point improvement in the underlying loss ratio ad lower catastrophe losses were offset by higher expenses and less favorable development.
Specialty rates increased 2% in the first quarter with retention of 84%.
We are pleased to report continued progress in commercial.
The first quarter combined ratio of 103.3% was a significant improvement compared with the prior year period.
This improvement is a result of the disciplined underwriting actions we have been taking coupled with a lower level of catastrophes and the absence of unfavorable loss development.
Commercial’s combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 100.5% or approximately one point better than last year's first quarter.
Notably the loss ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 64.1% 3.1 points better than the prior year period.
Commercial rates increased 3% in the first quarter with retention of 76%.
International's first quarter combined ratio of 98.3% was 4.8 points higher than in the prior year quarter.
The increase was primarily due to the decline in premium which was driven by adverse premium development and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom good morning everyone.
As Tom mentioned we reported first quarter net operating income of $225 million or $0.83 per share an 18% increase over the prior year period.
The operating return on equity was 7.4%.
Net operating income from our core P&amp;C operations was $264 million 21% higher than the first quarter of 2014.
The increase is attributable to continued improvements in our underlying commercial underwriting results lower catastrophes and increase within partnership this investment income.
Our property and casualty underwriting results continue to improve; the loss ratio was 64.5% a 3.8 point improvement compared with the first quarter of last year.
The underwriting loss ratio was 62.3% was 1.6 points better than the prior year quarter.
As importantly the underlying loss ratio showed consistent improvement from where we ended the full year 2014 as you can see on slide 11 of our earnings presentation.
P&amp;C operations expense ratio was 34.1% higher than previous quarters due to lower earned premium and the absence of any favorable expense recoveries which have benefited each of the last several quarters.
Specialty loss ratio was 63.1% in the quarter an improvement of eight tenths of a point compared with the prior year quarter.
The underlying loss ratio improved by more than one point period-over-period to 62.2% and was essentially unchanged from where we ended the full year 2014.
Expense ratio increased 1.3 points to 31.3% primarily the result of ongoing investments in underwriting resources and technology.
The commercial loss ratio was 66.9% which represents more than a 10 point improvement compared to the first quarter of last year.
The underlying loss ratio was 64.1% a 3.1 point improvement period-over-period and a further half point lower than where we ended the full year 2014.
Expense ratio was 36% an increase of 2.1 points primarily as a result of lower earned premium and the absence of favorable expense helps that I mentioned earlier.
International's loss ratio in the quarter was 60.7% compared with a 54.2% result in the prior year quarter.
The increase was primarily due to the unfavorable effect of net prior year earned premium development and a higher current accident year loss ratio.
The previous year also benefited from the favorable impact of commutations.
The underlying loss ratio was 56.7% which was almost 1 point higher than the same period last year but more 3.5 points lower than our full year 2014 results.
International's expense ratio declined 1.7 points to 37.6% reflecting efficiency gains.
Life and group produced $17 million net operating loss in the quarter compared with a $2 million loss in the first quarter of last year.
The unfavorable comparison was primarily driven by morbidity and our long-term care business this quarter compared with benign morbidity in the prior year period.
Our corporate segment produced a net operating loss of $22 million compared with a $27 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The full impact of last year's debt refinancing has meaningfully lowered our interest expense.
Net investment income was $558 million in the first quarter.
Income from limited partnership investments was a $114 million a return of 3.9% compared with $73 million return of 2.7% in the prior year period.
Income from our fixed maturity securities in the first quarter was $443 million down slightly from the prior year period but relatively unchanged on an after-tax basis as you can see on page 17 of the earnings presentation.
Our investment portfolio of net unrealized gains stood at approximately $3.7 billion at quarter-end an increase of 8.7% since the end of the fourth quarter.
At March 31st shareholders' equity was $12.4 billion a reduction of approximately $350 million compared with year-end 2014.
Book value per share was $46.02 a share a 2.9% decline over the same period.
The reductions reflect the dividend payments in the first quarter of $608 million or $2.25 per share.
Adjusting for these dividend payments book value per share increased approximately 2% since year-end 2014.
Specialty surplus at March 31 2015 was an estimated $10.7 billion for the combined insurance operating companies and we continue to maintain ample dividend capacity.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company were approximately $460 million at quarter-end.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to approximately one year of our annual net corporate obligations.
In the first quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was $81 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $1.1 billion.
Fixed income assets that support our long duration life and group liabilities had an effective duration of 10.3 years at quarter-end.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.1 years at quarter-end.
These durations are both in line with portfolio targets.
Average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
We continue to maintain a very conservative capital structure.
All our capital adequacy and credit metrics are well above our internal targets and current ratings.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Overall we had a good quarter and a strong start to the year.
While premiums were down 6% about one half of the decline was due to specific underwriting actions and foreign exchange effects.
Nonetheless our highest priority continues to be improving profitability.
As market conditions get more challenging it is important that we maintain focus on the strategy that has driven our recent loss ratio improvement.
We continue to shift our portfolio away from less profitable lines and segments while building scale and further enhancing capabilities in our targeted customer segments.
We have changed our mix significantly over the years and the result is evident in our improved profitability.
We continue to execute our tier strategy differentiating rate on an account-by-account basis.
We are taking a disciplined approach to new business.
In this face of the market cycle it can be easy to loosen up your standards to show growth but we are focused on keeping our hard earned margin improvement.
Within the focus segments we are still finding some opportunities for profitable growth as we re-underwrite other parts of the books.
We have confidence in our strategy the management of our portfolio our approach to the market and must continue to execute regardless of the market conditions that the rest of 2015 brings.
With that we would be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And we’ll take our first question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions first can you identify just the FX impact on premiums and specifically just in the international segment; what would the growth have been in original currency? In an international segment it would have been -- it was half of the impact in the international in terms of the decline.
On the total place it had about a 2% effect.
That is helpful.
And then secondly in the specialty segment the expenses were a bit higher.
You talked about making investments in underwriting and technology.
Is this kind of a run rate going forward or were some of these one-time investments? No Jay I think that's a run rate going forward.
If you might recall the conversation we had at the end of last year in fourth quarter where we had talked about that we had about 1.5 that held across the whole place in expense from some expense recoveries from prior.
So we are making investments in both technology and underwriting in that business and in also in the commercial businesses.
But if you look at the total I think you will also see that where we are spending on it's not -- it is more incremental in specialty than it might be in commercial.
So we are harvesting productivity improvements and reducing expenses in a lot of places in the business.
You can see the constant underwriting dollars across place are pretty steady and then we’re reinvesting that in the future of the business.
And will take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney Capital.
Good morning CNA.
A question on long-term care morbidity how big was penalty this quarter and what drove it? It's really volume related Bob so maybe I should talk a little about the -- we've had pretty benign morbidity for the first three quarters of 2014 if you recall and then we've had pretty good significant increase in morbidity the last two.
So it's all volume related.
And we talked a bit about the variability.
So it's a pretty big number like period-over-period probably $20 million plus in terms of earnings impact but in terms of what we would have expected as this group of block of business ages it's maybe a $10 million or $12 million bad guy relative to what our expectations were.
And then we had some offsetting positives on persistency and rate increases which kind of mitigate that effect if that’s helpful.
So claims incidents or severity I mean you say volume? Incidents not severity.
In the good news category we’ve had a couple of quarters of sort of benign reserve development can we declare victory; where are we in the trucking element turnaround? I think the short answer is we’re not clearing victory but we’re pretty confident that the underwriting and pricing actions and portfolio management that we have been working on are starting to pay off.
So we feel pretty good but never declare a victory at this point.
The actuaries always tell me that.
How much of the business have you re-priced which need to re-price? We’re always re-pricing the business.
So I think the good news is if you look at middle market which is a big section in commercial we haven’t given back wage in any of our tiers even our best tier has been flat and all the other tiers were getting rate increases.
We’re always trying to improve profitability; rate is one of the factors we look at but it’s also risk selection and portfolio management which we think we are doing a pretty good job at.
And if you look at small business which is the piece of our commercial business we’re getting rate increases in all of the tiers.
And we’re throwing out a lot of stuff.
So we’re confident this strategy is going to work.
[Operator Instructions].
It appears we have no questions in the queue at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Tom Motamed for additional or closing remarks.
Okay thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
And this concludes our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corp Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today’s conference is being recorded.
And at this time I’d like to turn the conference over to James Anderson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Danny.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2015 second quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website <a href="http://www.cna.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.cna.com</u></a>.
With us on this morning’s call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig’s remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made in references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during this call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-Q and 10-K on file with the SEC.
In addition these forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday August 3 2015.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's website.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thanks you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
In the second quarter CNA produced net operating income of $132 million which included an non-economic $54 million charge related to retroactive reinsurance.
Excluding this charge net operating income was $186 million compared with an adjusted $216 million last year.
With higher underwriting income offset by lower limited partnership income our adjusted return on equity was 6.2%.
Our property and causality operation continues to show steady improvement with the combined ratio 3 points better than last year’s second quarter.
This improvement was driven by lower non-cat accident year loss ratios in both specialty and commercial.
Excluding catastrophes and development the property and causality combined ratio was 95.3% 1 point better than the prior year quarter.
Our specialty segment produced a solid quarter while the combined ratio of 91.2% was higher than last year as a result of less favorable development.
The current accident year loss ratio improved 0.6 points.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 92.6.
Rates increased 1% and retention was strong at 85%.
Specialties net written premium was down 4% in the quarter as the market becomes increasingly competitive especially for larger accounts.
We are very proud of this specialty franchise that we have built over decades and expect to grow it over time.
However we also value the margins that this business generates and will be stubborn in giving those up.
In other words we will sacrifice the top line to protect the bottom line if necessary as was the case this quarter.
Moving to commercial we continue to make good progress.
The combined ratio of 107.2 was 11 point improvement over the prior year quarter but was hampered by 7.7 points of catastrophe.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 97.7.
I would expect to sustain our progress from here.
Commercial rates increased 2% and retention improved to 79% with our core middle market business achieving 83% retention this quarter.
Commercial premium increased 4% as our underwriting actions affected a smaller portion of our book this quarter.
New business was up in our focused customer segments.
We are achieving a higher level of success attracting new commercial customers in our focus segments especially those segments where we are strong in specialty such as professional services and financial institutions.
Our previously discussed underwriting actions are working and are reflected in our improved loss ratio and bottom line results.
I’ll remind you that these individual underwriting actions are ongoing and will affect retention rates from quarter-to-quarter.
International second quarter combined ratio was 92.2%.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 97.8 1.5 points better that the prior year quarter.
Excluding the effects of foreign currency exchange rates net written premiums increased 5% for the quarter compared with the prior year quarter.
International rates decreased 1% and retention was 71%.
While business in our international segment particularly Lloyd's remains very competitive we’ve been able to navigate effectively to find profitable growth opportunities.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Our core property and casualty operations produced net operating income of $237 million consistent with the $236 million in the prior year quarter.
Our improved underwriting result was offset by lower limited partnership investment income.
Our P&amp;C underwriting results continue to improve.
As you can see on slide 11 of our earnings presentation the quarters underlying loss ratio of 61.7% was more than 1 point better than the prior year quarter driven by commercials 2.3 point improvement with specialty improving by more than 0.5 point.
Another important measure of our continuous improvement is our year-to-date underwriting results as compared to where we ended full year 2014.
Property and causalities underlying loss ratio has been lowered by also 1 point from the end of 2014 driven by internationals 2.6 point improvement and commercials improvement of 1.3 points.
Specialties current result is relatively consistent with full year 2014.
Our second quarter expense ratio was 33.4%.
While it was flat with the prior year quarter we expect our run rate to be slightly higher in the second half of the year driven by ongoing investments in underwriting resources and technology.
Life and group produced a $24 million net operating loss in the quarter compared with a $9 million gain in the second quarter of last year.
The prior year quarter benefited from unusually favorable morbidity and persistency experience in our long term care business as compared with modestly unfavorable morbidity in the current year quarter.
As one of the number of initiatives to improve our long term care business we are implementing a new long term care reserving system that we expect will be used for this year’s reserve adequacy testing.
Unlike our prior process where the review of claim reserves occurred in the third quarter and the review of active life reserves occurred in the fourth quarter we now intend to follow a single integrated review process evaluating both reserve components together.
We expect to conclude the 2015 reserve adequacy testing for both reserves in the fourth quarter.
Our corporate segment produced a net operating loss of $81 million compared with a gain of $27 million in the second quarter of 2014.
Last year’s second quarter was positively affected by a post retirement plan curtailment benefit of $56 million after tax.
The current quarter includes a $54 million after tax charge arising from the accounting related to the 2010 Asbestos and Environmental Loss Portfolio Transfer with National Indemnity.
Adjusted for these unusual items our corporate segment operating loss was $27 million this quarter compared with a loss of $29 million in the prior year quarter.
You will recall that in 2010 we transferred our legacy asbestos and environmental pollution liabilities to National Indemnity Company a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway through our retroactive reinsurance transaction.
At that time we seeded approximately 1.6 billion of net liabilities and paid approximately $2.2 billion for our reinsurance contract with a $4 billion aggregate limit.
As further outlined on slide 14 of our earnings presentation our estimate of inception to date ultimate seeded losses were increased by $150 million to $2.6 billion.
Since the seeded losses are above the consideration paid also known as the gain threshold the gain must be differed and recognized in proportion to paid recoveries.
These differed gains will be subsequently recognized in future periods as seeded paid losses increase.
While the accounting negatively affected our reported results during the current period by $54 million after tax there is no cash or economic impact.
We expect to fully recover these seeded amounts over the course of that contract.
The charge is GAPP only with no impact on statutory surplus.
Net investment income was $500 million in the second quarter.
Income from limited partnership investments was $48 million a return of 1.6% compared with $97 million or a return of 3.5% in the prior year period.
Income from our fixed maturity securities in the second quarter was $452 million consistent with the prior year period.
Our investment portfolios net unreleased gain stood at approximately $2.7 billion at quarter end a decrease of $1.1 billion since the end of the first quarter.
At June 30 shareholders equity was $12.2 billion and book value per share was $45.27.
Excluding accumulated other comprehensive income book value per share of $44.37 increased 3% from year end 2014 adjusted for dividends.
Statutory surplus at June 30 was an estimated $10.9 billion for the combined insurance operating companies and we continue to maintain adequate dividend capacity.
Cash and short term investments at the holding company were approximately $460 million at quarter end.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to approximately one year of our annual net corporate obligations.
In the second quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was $458 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay downs bond calls and maturities were approximately $1.1 billion.
Fixed income assets that support our long duration life and group liabilities had an effective duration of 10.5 years at quarter-end.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets which support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.4 years at quarter-end.
These durations are both in line with portfolio targets.
Average credit quality of our fixed maturity portfolio remained at A.
Overall our investment portfolio remains well diversified liquid high quality and aligned with our business objectives.
We continue to maintain a very conservative capital structure.
All our capital adequacy and credit metrics are well above our internal targets and current ratings.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we take your questions I’d like to address the top of M&amp;A.
Much of the chatter in recent weeks revolves around scale and the ability to compete for different sized companies and I’d like to give you my thoughts on CNA in this regard.
Today as we have for years we compete with companies that are larger than us and we believe we are building a business that can stand on it’s on.
Our strategy is one built around focus rather than size.
That being said we have demonstrated the desire and ability to acquire businesses and we continue to look for M&amp;A opportunities with the key being that any deal must work for us both strategically and financially.
We are not interested in simply being bigger.
We have a very strong specialty business a commercial business that has shown great improvement in recent years and an international business that is building momentum.
Three pillars of the CNA that is getting stronger each quarter.
So while I’d like to see CNA continue to grow and gain scale both organically and inorganically we will do so rationally with our customers agents and shareholders in mind.
With that we are glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions].
And we’ll begin with our Q&amp;A starting with Josh Shakar with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead sir.
Yes good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Please excuse me being a little alarmist but whenever I hear about people changing their methodology for how they do a major reserve study I get a little nervous.
Was there something wrong with your previous system for looking into your long term care reserves and why should I not be particularly concerned about a change in method? Well first Josh I didn’t say change in method so it’s not a change in methodology.
It’s simply enhanced data it’s what we’ve been saying we’ve been doing and long term care relative to our investments in the business over the past couple of years.
So all we’re doing is allowing ourselves that ability to more clearly see more granular data and ability to relate more clearly and simultaneously healthy lives and unhealthy lives.
So there is nothing in there signaling anything more than an improved ability to see data and trends more clearly.
Are you concerned that last year you weren’t seeing them clearly enough? No we’re not.
We’re simply trying to improve our ability to manage the business.
Remember we’re also investing and building in new long term care claim.
Our own long term care claim administrative platform in bringing claims back in-house that have been outsourced which has enabled us also to put those lessons we learnt and seeing things better to work.
So certainly there’s nothing in this – the fact that we have a – the timing of reserve reviews are different.
All we’re doing is just saying suggesting to you that the claim and active life reserve reviews are being conducted simultaneously this year.
That was the important point we wanted to make so you weren’t looking for something different and we certainly weren’t trying to signal anything beyond that.
And in terms of looking at the reserve or redundancies and what not they are not as strong as they were a couple of years ago.
I know you try and get the accurate not trying to create favorable development.
Do you feel there’s been a change in the benign claims environment given where you were two years ago.
I wouldn’t say there’s been any particular change in the claim environment where we were a couple of years ago.
I’d suggest to you that what you’ve seen in our patterns has been more of a return to the steadiness on the commercial side where we had been playing by both some workers comp reserve inadequacies in automobile a year ago and this year the last two reserve reviews you’ve seen relatively unchanged commercial lines; at least that’s how I would characterize the commercial lines change and you’ve seen some modest continued modest favorable development coming out of about specialty and international and those are both relatively consistent trends even though they might be quite as much as they were a year ago.
Okay.
And finally and I don’t want to minimize all the hard work that you’ve been doing but when we think about the turnaround of CNA what inning is it? Are we coming to a steady state here where this is the new CNA or do you think there’s still a lot of work to do? We’d probably say sixth inning maybe getting near the seventh inning stretch so we think we’re making progress.
Okay.
Well I look forward to the end of the ball game.
Take care.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney.
Please go ahead.
Good morning CNA? Good morning.
Tom I really appreciate your thoughts on consolidation.
I just have two follow-ups both on PC and long term care.
It seems like some of your competitors Bill Berkley are griping about sort of the tax angle of competing in the marketplace and your alma mater to some extent allowing with these tax inversion may have been part of their thought process.
Where are you on whether you have the right tax structure to compete in the current world? Bob this is Craig and I will tell you that we think it’s important to not complain but simply to play the field that you’re on and I don’t think we feel any terrific disadvantage.
Whether that’s investing in the current market or whether that’s competing under the U.S.
tax codes we waste little to no time really worrying over that.
Okay you think we can speed… [Cross talk] Yes we think we have plenty of other advantages relative to the position of our company the broad retail reach of our company the number of agents and distributors that are of importance to them the breadth of product offering we have our critical importance particularly in these customer segments the size of the market share and the importance we are to customers across that and that’s all more important so we don’t spend any time crying over spilt milk.
Yes I would add to that Bob you know.
We are trying to improve under writing and improve our margins.
Our strategy is based on writing commercial and specialty business in the U.S.
and abroad and doing it at better margins and if we can do that we think we can compete with anybody and as Craig mentioned we have some very strong market leading positions that are probably the envy of the industry.
So we’re not in business to find a tax advantage.
We’re in business to build the business.
So that’s what we’re going to do and we’re improving every day.
Got you.
On the life side I mean you did one nice sale.
Is there a growing market for options in long term care where you can either sell or reinsure the pieces? Not that I’ve seen or heard of so far Bob.
This little nibbles around edges and some people are trying to become more – better acquainted with it but there’s certainly no signs of any meaningful market that would afford us an opportunity to do anything.
Okay one last question numbers question on page eight of your supplement.
Remind me why the tax credit rate on life group is running 70% plus.
The after tax loss of 24 compares to a pre tax of 73.
That’s because of the – because of the heavy amount of tax exempt muni’s that are investment income that are devoted to that portfolio.
So what you’re seeing on a – you’re seeing the pre tax basis and then you’re seeing the tax affected the muni benefit effect.
Got you.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And our next question is from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning.
Just a few follow-up questions.
First of all just going back to the LPT what was the cause of the additional adverse development? There were really two causes.
One was relative to asbestos a reduced estimate of the amount of the reinsurance recoveries and recall this agreement does seed the reinsurance credit losses or net impact of losses to Berkshire Hathaway.
So on asbestos side it was really a lowered amount of reinsurance recoveries and then there were a couple of larger pollution losses in terms of where the individual outcomes were higher than we had expected.
And on those larger pollution losses do you get the sense that the noise from at least that piece was sort of one-time in nature as of now or could we see more noise in the reminder of 2015 from that? Our estimates are at management’s best estimate at the time so I wouldn’t suggest you see or expect any trends from that.
Certainly we look at like you do industry trends and we see in terms of competitors etcetera.
So I wouldn’t want to really engage any conjecture but certainly there is more than sufficient limit left in the loss portfolio transfer to deal with any additional adverse trend.
Correct.
The other question I had was – I guess this is a follow up to Joshua’s point.
You talked about enhanced data I think responding to him granular data.
As I said those are terms we hear often and I’m not sure what to make of it.
Do you have I guess more sets of eyes looking at the same data or what exactly has changed? How can we as outsiders get comfort on that fact and then better understand it.
What’s really changed? Is it a ton of new IT resources analyzing the data or just better people.
Maybe just talk a bit more about that.
Well if I could take you back and I think we maybe honestly overdoing the conversation here and I’m sorry we’ve made you anxious if we have it certainly wasn’t our intention.
What we’re doing is just continuing to – just like we do in all parts of our business and invest in the business and maybe the right word is refining our capabilities and continuously improving our capabilities.
So that’s what we do across all our businesses looking at loss data and we’re investing pretty heavily in technology and data analytics.
That will cost our property casualty business as well as long term care.
So it’s really nothing more than that.
I think I did say to you when you asked that before that we have invested in the business.
I mean we have more actuaries to make sure that we’re looking at things more clearly but it’s just – we view it as just ongoing refinement and improvement.
Got it.
The third question I had – maybe this is a two part question.
The discussion on consolidation and M&amp;A and looking at other entities and you talked about continuously looking at things but not necessarily being out there just because everyone else is talking about M&amp;A.
I wanted to sort of loop that discussion back into if you look at where the stock is trading at on a price-to-book basis then if you look at the ROE because of the payment equity leverage and then sort of also add some of your competitors into the mix where do we go from here? When does CNA get to the multiples where our Travelers is trading at? Do we even get there in the current cycle especially with the leverage issue in terms of how your top line is versus the capital your carrying? Maybe Tom just share your views as to how do you think that gap closes? Well I think if I go back to my arrival at CNA there were a couple of issues that confronted us.
The first were underwriting margins were unacceptable in commercial and we have worked very hard to improve the underlying accident year loss ratios.
That required a shift in strategy on many fronts underwriting pricing producer management segmentation and actually coming up with a strategy that was going to be successful for the long term and we believe that the customer segment strategy is serving us very well in that regard.
It is probably the only strategy out there that blends commercial and specialty products which is very appealing to producers and customers.
So we think that’s working very well.
We did have an asbestos issue and we have addressed that and we think that was the right thing to do at that time.
We still believe that and after we did it a few other people followed.
So the fact of the matter is we addressed that we got rid of non-performing business outside of the U.S.
and Hawaii and we have done the bolt-on of surety and Hardy Hardy leading to the platform that will serve us well internationally.
So all of those are moving pieces that we had to fix things along the way.
Yes we’ve certainly had to do that and we think we are continuing to gain on that.
We are still getting rate increases.
They have decelerated but that’s industry wide but we are cautious on the new business we write so we think we are moving all of that in the right direction.
Long term care is still out there; you know that and we know that.
We don’t see a solution for that right now so we’re going to manage it as hard as we can and invest in it so that we can do a better job in the meantime.
So we expect things will improve but this is about focus.
Getting big for big sake doesn’t mean you’re going to be better.
It doesn’t mean that the margins are going to be better.
It doesn’t mean you’re going to have more command of the market place.
So like I said Amit we compete with bigger companies everyday and the fact is we win our share they win their share so that doesn’t worry us.
We think we have a good offering for the market and we’re going stick with it.
So this takes time and we’re gaining on it.
So I think it’s a good story and we think it’s going to continue to go in the right direction.
And in terms of the capital level I guess what I was trying to get to is if you look at the premium to equity and then you compare it with some of the other names I mean I think what I’m hearing from you is that all has been equal.
We’re in it for the long haul and the price to book reflective of where the payment equity is you’re sort of okay with where things are at least mid term as to where the stock is trading.
Let me say this.
As far as capital is concerned as Craig mentioned and we had mentioned on many calls we are investing in the business.
We have done some acquisitions although they are small.
If there was something out there that made sense strategically and financially we’d take a look at that but we have returned money to our shareholders in the meantime.
So whether that’s the regular dividend whether it’s the special dividend but that’s all part of capital management and there’s a lot of action going on out there and I’m not going to say what we are going to do but we are going to be very thoughtful in what we do and how we do it because we’re in an improving position we believe and we’re not going to take away from that.
So we’re not going to just do a transaction and screw up everything we worked on.
So I would leave it at that.
Okay that’s all I have.
Thanks for the detailed answers and good luck for the future.
Okay thank you.
Up next from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch we have Jay Cohen.
Please go ahead sir.
Yes thank you.
A couple of other questions.
In a commercial segment after several years of declining premiums this was the first time we’ve seen premiums go up on a gross and a net basis and you’ve suggested that there has been a bit of a change.
I guess my question is do you see this growth as sustainable or was there anything unusual in the quarter which would suggest we’d fall back into a pattern of no growth or shrinkage? Well first off is the second quarter historically is a good quarter for new business opportunities and I think we cashed in on those in the commercial space particularly what we call the middle market segments financial institutions technology professional services white collar business which we think has better loss ratios over time than some of the industrial blue collar stuff.
So we think a little bit of that is timing but new business was up.
It had been down for a while.
We have had less to fix and commercially.
The amount of business to be fixed is going down.
We still have some to go which I mentioned in my comments but we’re pleased with what we’re seeing in the middle market space and we’re retaining more of that business.
The retention’s gone up.
When you look at the tiers the better business the higher tiered business the retention has improved in those as well.
So we are pretty happy with where commercial is going.
This is a marathon and this is not a sprint so it’s very granular.
It’s like three yards in a cloud of dust right so we keep pushing on that.
So the retention was better in the middle market segments.
We’ve had some rate new business was better and we hate to keep pushing it along but don’t think we’re going to be growing this at 5% or 10%.
We think that would be irresponsible in this kind of pricing environment.
So low single digit growth would be okay we’ll take that.
Great thanks Tom.
On the specialty side you talked about getting a little bit more expensive and you saw the premiums shrink a bit more on a net basis.
But on a gross basis according to our numbers it looks like it was up pretty nicely.
So what’s happening there because obviously you seem to be buying reinsurance a bit differently.
Is that fair? Yes we have a cell phone captive which we book as gross written premium.
There is no net on that we get a fee for that.
So that’s the difference between the gross and net other than reinsurance cost.
But to address your other comment in the health care space particularly the hospital business where we are a pretty strong market we find that to be very competitive.
A lot of new entrance a lot of people going after healthcare and particularly the hospital business so we don’t like what’s going on there in pricing.
New entrants trying to push the price down to get share.
Also public DNO doesn’t look too exciting to us these days and when you look at the M&amp;A activity you are also finding one plus one does not necessarily equal two from an insurance premium standpoint.
So as there are mergers some of those accounts or the two accounts become less than two but public DNO is pretty competitively.
Once again we said larger accounts people are going after and that’s what you see in public DNO and in the hospital business.
So we would also see there is a lot of competition in assisted living business as well as life science business.
So a lot of competition driving the price down and we are prepared to walk away not jeopardize the margins that we’ve established over time and specialty.
That’s helpful.
Good thorough answer.
Last question on the holding company resources the dividend capacity from the insurance I assume that will be used up this year.
Unlikely it will be fully used up but it will certainly be maintained.
Okay and then could you remind us in the past when you used paid special dividends did you end up using the credit facility or was it really just cash-on-hand? It was dividends from the insurance from the insurance subsidiaries up streams to meet it.
Got it but it looks like already you got holding company cash in excess of your annual corporate obligation.
Yes.
Now remember and you can see that on the slide and I don’t recall exactly what page Jay but when you pointed to it the way we define corporate obligations would be the interests expense on the debt and the annual dollar being $0.25 a share quarterly dividend and that’s when we retain enough cash to fund that over the course of a full year.
Got it yes.
No that seems to be laid out there.
Very good thanks for the answers.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Jeff Schmitt with William Blair.
Please go ahead sir.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
A couple of quick questions.
One on the international segment.
Did I hear it right you said excluding the negative impact of FX growth would have been plus 5% versus minus 5%.
Correct.
Okay.
And then on the tax rate after adjusting for the retro charge it looks like it came in at 25% versus 28% on the second quarter last year.
Could you maybe discuss what’s driving that difference? Just the higher proportion of income is coming from tax exempt investments.
Just driven by the – okay.
Yes the mix of income.
Okay and is there anything more you could say on the limited partnership at all; just the lower return this quarter.
I mean any detail on that.
I don’t think there is any.
I mean I think that’s – just remember that we are marking – the large majority of our limited partnerships are real time market adjustments.
They are over 8% and less than 20% of our limited partnerships are private equity or be it lagging indicators.
So it’s really just those returns reflecting the market particularly at the end of June.
Okay.
That’s it thank you.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
[Operator Instructions].
We have a follow up question from Amit Kumar with Macquarie.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks.
Just one quick follow-up to I think it was Jay’s question on special dividend.
I know you did a special dividend of $2 previously.
Is the special dividend still one of the tools which could be utilized going forward when looking at the capital position or was that special divided discussion etcetera is that more in the rear view mirror.
I think Amit we said we are going to use capital to invest in the business maybe an acquisition or return it to shareholders.
So we got flexibility and we have options time will tell.
And special dividend is still on the table.
Yes.
Okay that’s all I wanted to clarify.
That’s all I have thank you for that answer.
You’re welcome.
At this time we have no further questions in our queue.
Thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today’s presentation and we appreciate everyone’s participation.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corp.
Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
James Anderson.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Cassandra.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2015 third quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our Web-site www.cna.com.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig's remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made in references to non-GAAP financial measures.
Any forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA's most recent 10-Q and 10-K on file with the SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday November 2 2015.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have also been provided in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and Webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's Web-site.
With that I will turn it over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thanks you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
In the third quarter CNA produced net operating income of $210 million compared with $182 million last year.
The increase was driven by significantly higher underwriting income which was partially offset by lower limited partnership investment income.
Our property and casualty operation had a great underwriting quarter with a combined ratio of 85.7% more than 10 points better than last year's third quarter and our lowest quarterly combined ratio in more than a decade.
The improvement was driven by favorable prior year loss development in all property and casualty segments and a 3 point improvement in our underlying commercial loss ratio.
We also benefitted from a benign catastrophe quarter.
Excluding catastrophes and development the property and causality combined ratio was 95.5% 0.7 points better than the prior year quarter.
Our Specialty segment had another outstanding quarter with a combined ratio of 74.4% compared with 80.8% in the prior year quarter.
The improvement was driven by higher favorable prior year loss development with the majority of the development coming from surety.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 92.5% up 1 point primarily due to an increase in the expense ratio.
Specialty rate was relatively flat and retention continued to be strong at 86%.
Specialty's net written premium was down 4% as we continue to believe that most of the new business opportunities that are coming into the market are inadequately priced for the exposures.
We continue to make steady progress in Commercial.
The combined ratio of 95.8% was nearly a 15 point improvement over the prior year quarter.
It was helped by moderately favorable prior year loss development a low level of catastrophes and most importantly a 3 point improvement in the underlying loss ratio.
Our ongoing improvements in risk selection and pricing strategies continued to drive the loss ratio lower.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 95.6% which was a 2.5 point improvement over the prior year quarter.
Commercial rates increased 2% and retention improved to 76%.
Our core middle markets business which represents more than 50% of our commercial writings achieved 83% retention again this quarter.
Our International segment also had a good quarter with a combined ratio of 90.4% an 8.6 point improvement over the prior year quarter driven by higher favorable prior year loss development.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 106%.
Two large losses added $25 million or 12 points to the current accident year loss ratio.
Excluding the effect of foreign currency exchange rates net written premiums increased 5% for the quarter compared with the prior year quarter.
International rates decreased 1% and retention was 73%.
With that I'll turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
As Tom indicated CNA delivered a strong financial result in the quarter powered by much improved underwriting profitability.
Operating earnings were $0.77 per share up 13% from last year with operating return on equity of 6.9%.
Net operating income in our property and casualty operations was $263 million up 9% from last year driven by especially strong underwriting performance.
As you'll recall we believe that an important measure of our continuous improvement is our year-to-date underwriting results as compared to where we ended full year 2014.
P&amp;C's underlying loss ratio of 62% is almost 1 point better than our full year 2014 result driven by Commercial's over 2 point improvement.
Life &amp; Group produced a $30 million net operating loss in the quarter compared with a $42 million loss last year.
The current quarter loss was driven by continued unfavorable morbidity relative to expectations while the prior year quarter loss included a $34 million after-tax charge attributed to a reinsurance transaction tied to the sale of our life business.
Net investment income was depressed by a limited partnership loss of $93 million.
Our LP this quarter produced a negative 3.2% return approximately half of the negative 6.4% return of the S&amp;P 500.
While the loss from the LP portfolio was disappointing these investments continue to perform as we would expect.
They provide diversification to the overall portfolio with less volatility and higher risk-adjusted returns on equities.
On a year-to-date basis CNA's LP portfolio has generated a positive 2.2% return.
The S&amp;P 500 was down 5.3% over the same period.
Our fixed income portfolio remained stable and generated after-tax income of $326 million for the quarter essentially unchanged with the prior year period.
Our investment portfolio's net unrealized gains stood at approximately $2.6 billion at quarter end a slight decrease from the end of the second quarter.
At September 30th shareholders' equity was $12.3 billion and book value per share was $45.38.
Excluding accumulated other comprehensive income book value per share of $45.16 has increased 4.4% from year-end 2014 adjusted for dividends.
Statutory surplus at September 30 was an estimated $11 billion for the combined insurance operating companies and we continue to maintain more than adequate dividend capacity.
Cash and short-term investments at the holding company were approximately $464 million at quarter end.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to approximately one year of our annual net corporate obligations.
In the third quarter operating cash flow excluding trading activity was $489 million.
Cash principal repayments through paydowns bond calls and maturities were approximately $800 million.
Fixed income assets that support our long duration Life &amp; Group liabilities had an effective duration of 10.3 years at quarter end.
The effective duration of the fixed income assets that support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.4 years at quarter end.
These durations are both in line with portfolio targets.
We continue to maintain a very conservative capital structure.
All our capital adequacy and credit metrics are well above our internal targets and current ratings With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we take your questions I would like to close by saying we are quite pleased with the quarter and particularly with the increased contributions by underwriting.
We will continue to maintain our focus on improving margins through portfolio management as well as being selective on new business opportunities.
Thank you again.
We will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Amit Kumar of Macquarie.
Good morning and congrats on a very strong result.
Two quick questions.
Number one is I guess just going back to the broader discussion on underlying margins and the improvement in margins and I would say this is a very strong quarter Tom do you get the sense that there is still a lot of room for that to continue to improve from here or are we sort of approaching somewhat of a flat line just based on I guess the market conditions and the previous rate increases that you've taken? The question is what does 'a lot' mean? I would say there is potential improvement in our margins.
I think that we have been going about this in a very granular way and we've been grinding it out quarter-over-quarter.
So I think there is room for improvement in commercial specialty.
The market is pretty tough but we continue to deliver outstanding results in specialty where we're market leader in many of the specialty segments we choose to play in.
So yes we are optimistic that we can continue to show improvement.
We are getting some rate in commercial and we are being very disciplined when it comes to new business.
I think many of the tools that we have put in place over time are starting to help us but it's not just rate it's risk selection it's terms and conditions it's looking at portfolio management what lines you want to write in what territories.
All of those things add up and we're getting better with that every quarter.
I know [indiscernible].
That is obviously great news because a lot of us have obviously waited for quite some time for these results.
The second question I had was this might be for Craig do you have the LP mark I guess reversal or the number as of Q4 to date? I'm wondering if you have any indication as to where it stands as of now or how much of that negative has turned to positive based on your understanding.
Both – October I expect October to be a good month Amit.
So just keep in mind that our marks are reflective of the current market at the time.
Over 70% of our LPs are marked on a current basis.
Another 10% are on a one month delay.
So you get current marks and you know that October was a good month so you should expect October was a good month for LPs from us.
Got it okay.
The only other question I had was the level of reserve releases.
Maybe I missed it did you talk a bit more about that in the opening remarks because it was obviously higher than what we have seen in the past and was that the usual reserve study which included this quarter or was there anything else going on? No those were the usual reserve studies that we concluded this quarter.
I think what drove a lot of the difference was that we saw favorable reserve development across all three business segments.
So we had no asterisk from any business that we looked at.
And then of course in Specialty this is the quarter that we traditionally look at.
Surety surety results were particularly positive but we also saw very positive results really accident years 2012 and prior across the Professional &amp; Management Liability book driven by quite a bit lower large-loss development that we anticipated.
We had some real small benefit in 2014 cat estimates coming out of Commercial we had no bad news in Commercial and we had really positive news across the entire portfolio in International.
So just really it was the consistency of improvement across everywhere.
Got it.
And it was the biggest piece of Professional Liability which you mentioned the '12 to '14? I said '12 and prior Professional and Management Liability showed improvement.
Got it.
Okay that's all I have.
Congrats on the quarter once again.
Thanks.
We'll go next to Josh Shanker of Deutsche Bank.
Foreign environments question a little bit if we look through 2008 to 2011 there was patterning of large reserve releases in the fourth quarter.
I assume there was an annual side that was completed in each of those years that caused that to happen.
Is the pattern of how you conduct your reserves say at the same state it was six seven years ago? No I think our pattern of reserve reviews has been pretty consistent all the time that I've been here and I've been here for 11 years.
We look at somewhere around 3% or so of our total reserves every quarter.
We make a point of looking at the larger product lines at least twice a year in-depth and everything at least once a year and we're really making a point of making sure that we're more frequently looking at all of our reserves in general.
So no I'd suggest there is no real pattern… So there's no seasonality to think about going into 4Q or 1Q anywhere except long-term care? There is as you'll recall not so much 4Q but 1Q after we finish the year-end results we have traditionally not made much of any changes in first quarter.
So other than having said that I would say there's no particular seasonal pattern too.
Okay.
And of course a large reserve study coming up in the fourth quarter on long-term care can you talk a little bit about the change in methodology a little bit? Obviously given a look at the stock I think given everything we've seen at Genworth investors are a little nervous that you changed some tactics on how you analyze long-term care.
You could get an adverse result.
But I think you've said certainly that you would be surprised if there was any dramatic difference between your old methodology and your new methodology.
Your new methodology is a little bit more granular.
Can you kind of talk to that a little bit as we preview what's going to happen in the next couple of months? Sure I'm happy to Josh.
I think that – and I would just change the word we're not changing our methodology all right.
We did have a systems conversion which enabled us to have a more granular view and that systems conversion is proceeding as planned it's near completion.
And as I said last quarter actually I can even say it more confidently today I expect no material effect on the reserve position that's going to come out as a result of the change in the actuarial systems.
Now having said that we're in the midst of our normal reserve analysis we're reviewing all the key assumptions with another year of experience and that work will continue deep into the fourth quarter.
And I'd say we're too early to be drawing any conclusions from that work.
Can you talk a little about the morbidity trend that you saw in the third quarter? The morbidity trend in the third quarter is really a continuation that we've seen in the last several quarters and that's driven really almost entirely by new claim incidence in individual long-term care which has been at increased levels for several quarters in a row.
So none of the other major morbidity components benefit utilization duration the time on claim claim terminations all those key factors have been pretty stable over the time.
So it's entirely a new claim incidence an individual phenomenon.
And you don't see a similar trend in the group book I guess? That's correct.
Okay.
Thank you for all the answers and congratulations on a good quarter.
We'll go next to Bob Glasspiegel of Janney.
Tom nice to hear you with a bounce to your voice on these calls again.
Couple of quick follow-ups to what you were discussing in the first two questions from Josh and Amit.
On Josh's questions not to prejudge what the actuarial study will do but just to understand directional pressures or positives am I right to assume that pricing is an incremental positive interest rates might be a negative and perhaps your commentary that you've seen several claims several quarters of increased frequency that might be a pressure.
Do I have the directions right? I think you do.
So yes rate increases are generally positive and certainly morbidity has been unfavorable over the course of the year.
And interest rates remember you don't just look at risk-free you got to look at where spreads are in components and where we invest.
So that's a little bit more probably neutral to slightly in either direction.
So your new rates are – your new investment yields are pretty close to what your old assumptions were despite continued [indiscernible] of spreads widening is that what you're saying? What I'm saying is that you have to pay attention to spreads because that's where we invest not just risk-free.
I guess I would also go on to say we have we're not investing at the rate that of the liabilities but we are investing over the course of this year above where we would have expected to have been able to invest just as happened a year ago.
Okay good to hear that I'm focusing on the right variables.
On the pricing trend Tom I'm probably over-analyzing but sounds like you were a little bit more cautious on inability to get new business on where rates are.
Is that a fair comment or is it just more of the same nothing has changed in the last quarter? Are you saying the rates are a little bit more competitive in the margin? It depends on the line.
So when you look at the public and private D&amp;O for example the pricing just keeps coming down down down in the marketplace the marketplace.
So we don't necessarily want to follow it down.
So we're going to be pretty judicious on what we write there right? Right.
If you look at large properties I think you've heard this on other calls the large accounts are taking big hits on renewal and the new business is very very competitively priced.
So we don't want to be following the market down.
We're just going to look for the opportunities that make sense.
So it depends on line.
But you know what's going on with rates.
It's been decelerating for a while and I think that if you look at the specialty business in particular it's pretty competitive out there.
A lot of people want to get into that space and it's pretty tough business they're going to find that out.
Okay.
So as we think about capital needs you're generating capital your top line isn't growing your leverage ratios are below your target levels.
I think you do your special dividend analysis with the year-end results.
Is there anything else on the margin that will factor into that decision? I think Bob I'll just say that you should expect us to follow the same deliberate disciplined thought process that we've followed in the last several years.
You're generating excess capital but still low.
That's the fair way to think about it right? That's correct.
Okay.
Appreciate all the answers.
We'll go next to Jay Cohen of Bank of America.
I wanted to start on the Commercial segment.
The accident year loss ratio there dropped really quite a bit not only from a year ago but from where it had been for the first three quarters of the year.
My question is is there any sort of current year development any true-up in the quarter? Yes there is.
So as we – I'll be happy to follow-up offline too Jay if it might be helpful to you but I'm afraid we sometimes confuse people.
Recall that we are reflecting both underwriting actions and earn rate above trend as the year progresses rather than kind of resetting the expectation at the beginning of the year.
So what you're seeing is a multiplier effect.
So if the loss ratio in Commercial gets 0.5 point better on a year-to-date basis in the third quarter it would be multiplied it would look like 1.5 essentially.
So that's the phenomenon you were seeing.
And I think if you look back and look at 2013 2014 you'd see the same phenomenon and that is our pattern of improvement recognition that you're seeing where we're cautious as we move through the year.
So as we look forward sort of the base to look at really is the nine month number? That's correct.
That's why I said that's why I always try to remind everybody on these calls and else-wise that the best place to look at the level of improvement is to look at the year-to-date number as compared to where we ended the full-year 2014 or the year before and there is actually a slide in the earnings deck that I think clearly illustrates that.
Yes there is.
Second question given the good underwriting results should we expect somewhat higher expense ratio for the fourth quarter for some sort of incentive comp or bonuses? We haven't gotten around to thinking anything about that.
So no I wouldn't suggest you anticipate any higher expense ratio.
Okay.
And then last question the very sizable reserve release I mean taking a step back does this give us some indication of what's happening in the overall claims environment are things more benign than you thought they would be at this point? It depends on whether you're focusing on the – it was really those reserve releases that were driven more by large losses being less than anticipated and remember the years that I had referred to which were 2012 and prior and a lot of that is just the conservatism and the caution with which we would reserve particularly Professional &amp; Management Liability lines given the uncertainty of those outcomes.
So we wouldn't say that.
In fact I think we'd say frequency trends in D&amp;O are up the last couple of years.
It's part of the reason that we've been more cautious in withdrawing from the public market and up in the medical malpractice arena which is why we've been cautious in the market.
So our own view is that other underwriters seem to be chasing yesterday's returns and behaving particularly in specialty that might suggest almost irrational level of behaviour.
Got it.
Thanks.
The answer is very clear.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Adam Klauber of William Blair.
Actually a follow-up on some of your last comments.
Could you talk more about loss trend of some of your key liability lines? I think you were just talking about some of the professional liability but how are they running in workers' comp how are they working for some of the healthcare practices? I'd say that relatively unchanged.
Our assumptions are still that long-term loss trends are in the 3% to 4% range over time and that's what we use for reserving and that's really what we use in terms of pricing.
Now in the interim comp trends have been generally benign and continue to be and we've seen some frequency pickup in the public D&amp;O and some of the healthcare lines as well as actually some severity pickup in healthcare.
Okay.
Then just to follow-up on the LP is the deterioration more on equity-based investments or fixed-based investments or is it more mixed across the board? Recall that we said is that 70% of our LP portfolio are hedge bonds and there is a slight long equity bias to the makeup of the total portfolio and that's what's driving the loss or drove the loss last quarter.
Okay that's very helpful.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Meyer Shields of KBW.
Just one basic question.
Lot of significant mergers either recently closed or being – seeing progress on them now could we talk a little bit about how agents are responding to that? Is there any opportunity there for you? Agents always express concern when there's change of any type.
So the fact of the matter is they express concern.
My experience is everything goes back to normal after some time settles back down.
But it's been going on for a long time.
Whenever there is a deal they all have something to say but they go back to business the following day.
So we'll see.
Okay thanks very much.
There are no further questions from the phone lines.
At this time I will turn the conference back to Tom Motamed for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
We'll see you next quarter.
And this does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the CNA Financial Corporation Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
James Anderson.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Katie.
Good morning and welcome to CNA's discussion of our 2015 fourth quarter financial results.
By now hopefully all of you have seen our earnings release financial supplement and presentation slides.
If not you may access these documents on our website www.cna.com.
With us on this morning's call are Tom Motamed our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Craig Mense our Chief Financial Officer.
Following Tom and Craig's remarks about our quarterly results we will open it up for your questions.
Before turning it over to Tom I would like to advise everyone that during this call there may be forward-looking statements made in references to non-GAAP financial measures any forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the statements made during the call.
Information concerning those risks is contained in the earnings release and in CNA’s most recent 10K and 10Q on file with SEC.
In addition the forward-looking statements speak only as of today Monday February 8 2016.
CNA expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements made during this call.
Regarding non-GAAP measures reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures have been provided for in the financial supplement.
This call is being recorded and webcast.
During the next week the call may be accessed on CNA's Web site.
With that I will turn the call over to CNA's Chairman and CEO Tom Motamed.
Thanks you James.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
In the fourth quarter CNA reported a net operating loss $52 million which was significantly affected by a reserve charge in our long term care run-off business as well as in investment accounting change.
Excluding these two items net operating income was $171 million.
For the full year CNA produced net operating income of $515 million compared with $849 million in 2014.
The decrease was driven by lower investment income primarily in our limited partnership investments and the fourth quarter long-term care charge I previously mentioned.
Our capital position remains very strong and Property &amp; Casualty income continues to be stable.
As a result we are pleased to announce a $2 per share special dividend this quarter.
This is the third year in a row that we have declared a special dividend for our shareholders.
This is in addition to our regular quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share.
Our Property &amp; Casualty underwriting results continue to show meaningful improvement.
Our full year combined ratio of 95.4 was a 2.3 point improvement compared with the 2014 result.
The underlying loss ratio improved 1 point.
This marks the fifth year in a row of underlying lost ratio improvement.
The expense ratio increased 1.3 points.
Craig will say more about this shortly.
Our combined ratio for the fourth quarter was 98.9.
The quarter saw increased activity in natural catastrophes in our international business.
Specialty had another strong year in a challenging market.
The combined ratio of 88.7 is slightly higher than the prior year.
Specialty’s combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 93.6 for the year.
The fourth quarter combined ratio of 95 was affected by a heightened level of loss activity primarily in the public management liability and healthcare arena.
Specialty’s combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 95.4.
Net written premiums grew 2% in the quarter.
Rates were essentially flat while retention improved to 87%.
Turning to Commercial we continue to make solid progress on underwriting profitability.
Our full year combined ratio of 101.5 reflects an 8 point improvement compared with 2014.
The underlying loss ratio improved 3 points.
Additionally the year benefited from a modest amount of favorable loss development as compared with unfavorable development in 2014.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development of 98% was an improvement of 0.6 points.
In the fourth quarter commercial had a combined ratio of 99.6%.
The underlying loss ratio was almost 4 points lower than the prior year quarter.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 98.3.
Net written premiums grew 2% rates increased 1% and retention improved to 84%.
International produced a combined ratio of 97.6 as compared with 92.4 in 2014.
The combination of higher catastrophe losses large loss activity and less favorable developments than in the prior year resulted in the decline.
Excluding catastrophes and development the combined ratio was 99.8 compared with 99.2 in 2014.
For the fourth quarter international had a combined ratio of 110 which included 10.7 points of catastrophe losses driven by three significant storms in the UK.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes and development was 103.1.
Net written premiums declined 1%.
However premiums grew 8% excluding foreign currency fluctuations.
Rates decreased 1% and retention was 73%.
With that I will turn it over to Craig.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning everyone.
Given the number of moving pieces in this quarter’s results I wanted to spend some time to provide you with more insight into those significant items a Long Term Care unlocking charge investment income and our expense ratio.
Let’s start with Long Term Care.
The Life &amp; Group segment reported net operating loss of $243 million which reflects the result of the Long Term Care claim and active life reserve reviews.
Our claim reserve reviews showed actual claim severity the combination of claim duration and benefit utilization to be favorable to our prior assumptions.
However we strengthened the frequency component of the IBNR claim reserve to better match the incident rate assumptions that were an outcome of the active life reserve reviewed.
This translated to a $9 million increase in claim reserves.
Now let’s move to the active life reserve review.
Page 14 of our earnings presentation shows the result of our annual gross premium valuation analysis.
As you can see from the exhibit increased morbidity was the driver of the approximate $400 million change in our reserve estimates.
This was driven primarily by increased claim frequency assumptions consistent with the experienced trend we have observed over a number of recent quarters.
Our discount rate persistency and premium rate increase assumptions did not change significantly and largely offset one another.
After taking into account the $100 million margin at December 31 2014 the indicated deficiency resulted in a $300 million pretax charge to earnings and a corresponding increase to net GAAP reserves.
As a result of recognizing the deficiency we unlocked our reserve assumptions which were previously locked-in at the time the policies were first written.
Our carried active life reserves are now based on our current best estimate assumptions with no margin.
Future periodic income for long-term care will reflect any variance between actual experience and the reset assumptions contemplated in our best estimate reserves.
While there will undoubtedly be variability in our future periodic results our reset assumptions should theoretically produce a breakeven underwriting result.
While we’re required to recognize the premium deficiency for GAAP reporting there was no indicated premium deficiency on a statutory basis.
We view the GAAP unlocking as an earnings not a capital event which coupled with our P&amp;C earnings strengths contributed to our Board of Directors’ decision to declare the special dividend this quarter.
I also want to remind you of our ongoing efforts to continuously improve our management of the Long Term Care business.
We have a number of specific initiatives and actions that have recently been completed and others that we can continue to execute upon.
These efforts demonstrate our commitment to managing the risks to the business while improving the standard of policyholder service.
Slide 15 provides you with a snapshot of some of these strategic initiatives including the recent closing of the Group long term care block to new entrance the build-out of our new claim and policyholder administration operation centered on an in-house claim team supported by a new vendor and significant investments in data analytics and talent.
Now let’s turn to investments.
Net investment income for the quarter was $428 million down $83 million from the prior year quarter.
The decrease was driven by lower income from limited partnership investments which returned just under 1% this quarter as compared with 2.2% in the prior year quarter.
For the full year limited partnership investments returned 3% as compared with just under 10% return in the prior year.
These investments continue to perform as we would expect.
And overtime they have provided diversification to the overall portfolio with less volatility and higher risk adjusted returns and equities.
An addition driver of the net investment income decreased as compared with prior periods related to the fixed maturity securities portion of the portfolio where an accounting change to better reflect the yield on security with call provisions resulted in an approximate $39 million reduction in pretax income in the period.
Going forward we would expect this change to reduce quarterly pretax investment income by a few million dollars compared with our previous run rate.
Our fourth quarter P&amp;C expense ratio increased just under 4-points compared with the prior year quarter to 35.8%.
There are number of components driving this unfavorable comparison.
You may remember that 2014’s fourth quarter was helped by some favorable recoveries that reduced our expense ratio by 1.5 points.
Inversely in the fourth quarter of 2015 an increase in loss base assessment fees related to our prior Defense Based Act workers' compensation program along with higher contingent commissions as a result of lower loss ratios in property and casualty added over 1 point to our expense ratio this quarter.
Increased technology and other underwriting investment spend in addition to lower earned premium account for the remainder of the difference.
We believe our full year expense ratio of just over 34% is more representative of our current run rate.
Now let’s look at addition key financial measures.
Our investment portfolio’s net unrealized gains stood at $2.3 billion at quarter end an approximate $300 million decrease from the end of the third quarter due to increased yields.
At December 31st shareholders equity was $11.8 billion and book value per share was $43.49.
Excluding accumulated other comprehensive income book value per share was $44.66 an increase of 4% from year end 2014 adjusted for dividends.
Statutory surplus at December 31st was an estimated $10.7 billion for the combined insurance operating companies and we continue to maintain more than adequate dividend capacity.
Cash and short term investments at the holding company were $482 million at year-end.
We continue to target cash at the holding company equal to approximately 1 year of our annual net corporate obligations.
In the fourth quarter operating cash flow was $342 million.
Cash principal repayments through pay-down bond calls and maturities were approximately $1 billion.
Fixed income assets that support our long duration Life &amp; Group liabilities had an effective duration of 9.6 years at year end.
This duration has drifted slightly lower during the year as a result of declining market yields which affect the duration of callable bond in our municipal bond portfolio.
Effective duration of the fixed income assets that support our traditional P&amp;C liabilities was 4.3 years at year end.
We continue to manage the assets to match the characteristics of the underlying liabilities.
The portfolio durations remain in line with the portfolio targets.
We continue to maintain a very conservative capital structure.
All our capital adequacy and credit metrics are well above our internal targets and current rating.
As I said earlier this sustained capital strength was a significant factor in the Board’s decision to declare the $2 per share special dividend and $0.25 per share quarterly common shareholder dividend.
With that I will turn it back to Tom.
Thank you Craig.
Before we take your questions I would like to make several closing comments.
Once again we are pleased to return excess capital to our shareholders.
This is the third consecutive year of the special dividend.
The combined ratio in our Property Casualty business of 95.4 in 2015 is the lowest that has been in five years.
Specialty continues to be a profitable and resilient business in a challenging environment.
Commercial continues to show improvement in the underlying loss ratio.
Commercial retention showed considerable improvement reflecting less churn in our existing portfolio due to underwriting actions.
Finally we continue to invest in people technology process and tools for the future.
With that we will take your questions.
Thank you [Operator Instructions].
We’ll take our first question from Josh Shanker with Deutsche Bank.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the Long Term Care charge.
To what extent was the charge the result of changing assumptions and to what extent was it the result of the new methodology or new process that you have in place? Josh it was 100% due to changing assumptions and had to nothing to do with changing methodologies or the new reserving processes we put in place.
So what did the new processes tell you? What did you learn? What did we learned I think if you’re referring to the processes or the assumption changes.
The assumption changes were driven by morbidity really claim frequency increase which is something that we’ve been mentioning and reporting on that we really noticed over the last five quarters.
So the real driver of the reserve charge was a change to our assumption about claim frequency which effected morbidity outcomes.
But there was nothing incremental to learn out of the new granular approach? Yes I think we have better -- it did enable us and was helpful in determining what those assumptions were and we’ve been -- because we have much more granular information really moved to away from what had been a dependence on industry and historical factors and some statutory or actuarial studies about morbidity as well as mortality and able to be much more dependent upon our own results and the trends we saw in our own results.
So that’s what gave us the confidence to change as well as gives us the confidence going forward that we’ve appropriate accounted for what we’d expect the results to be.
And in terms of your recommendation and the Board's decision on the $2 per share special dividend what impact did the Long Term Care charge have on those discussions? And could it have been a bigger special had the charge not occurred? Or it really was not an important part of the discussion? I would say that it’s -- the more accurate reflection it was not an important part of the discussion and I think we’ve said in prior and what I would suggest going forward is that we have more than adequate capital and strength in the balance sheet and that earnings going forward is what we even look at as being available for dividend if we didn’t have a better use for them.
Essentially we dividended more this year than almost 150% of earnings of earnings.
So the reserve charge really has essentially been accounted for in the excess capital that we had accumulated over time so therefore it became something we could exclude from our thinking and just think about the earnings excluding that reserve charge when we talk to the Board about special dividend.
And final question when thinking about that gap between your Property &amp; Casualty combined ratios and best-in-class peers it looks like the industry is having some tough pricing issues right now.
And I expect and I hope that CNA will narrow the gap between itself and the best-in-class peers.
Does that mean going forward -- do you think that there is a lot of room to improve your combined ratio or that gap will be narrowed as the pricing environment takes its toll on peers' very excellent margins? Where do you think the trend is in CNA relative to peers and where will that gap go? I think I’ll answer it in a couple of ways Josh.
One if you look at the accident year loss ratios and you look at the information that we’ve shown you in the earnings presentation slides you can see that we have consistently improved the accident year underwriting and I’d say that if you look at our very best peers we’re still on all-in basis in our Property &amp; Casualty total.
We have narrowed the gap to probably 2 or 3 points on the loss ratio component.
We actually think we’ve closed almost completely the gap into most of our other peers better peers on the loss ratio side.
We do think that despite the ongoing really the softening of the market relative to rates and so we will see some margin pressure coming from turn rate and written being slightly less than trend.
But remember we are still improving our execution improving our risk selection improving our pricing differentiation and we expect -- and improving really our portfolio composition as we move away from poor performing business to business where we have more confidence.
So all those -- we think all of those factors will enable us to continue to show some modest level of improvement in the loss ratio over the course of 2016.
On the expense side because we -- and you know that we’ve said before we’ve been focused on improving our underwriting capability as measured by loss ratio and loss ratio competitiveness and we’ve been making trying to be mindful of the long-term gain and making important investments in technology and other underwriting capabilities which just meant that we now have probably another 2 or 3 point difference in the expense ratio to peers.
I wouldn’t expect -- we do think that we can maintain the expense ratio where it is and as I pointed you all to looking really at the full year expense ratio it's more representative we think we can maintain it that there and don’t have any current intentions of doing anything or plan to be able to reduce that margin.
And we will need to turn to that at some point in time but we are not -- no near-term plans to do that.
And one more question if I can typically there is not so many questions on these calls so I will take some liberty.
Before Dino comes to work for CNA are there any risks or issues precluding ACE and Chubb employees looking for a new home from coming to CNA? This is Tom.
There probably are some restrictions on certain people at Chubb relative to what level they were in the organization.
But that’s between them and the new Chubb that has nothing to do with us.
So I think that’s really the short answer.
We’ll take our next question from Jay Cohen with Bank of America.
Thanks a couple of question.
First is the higher contingent commissions.
Given the higher level of profitability you have been able to achieve is that something that will continue going forward or was there some sort of catch-up in the fourth quarter? That was more of a catch up effect in the fourth quarter Jay and then go forward expense issue.
Got it.
And then you had I guess in the press release talked about in the call healthcare reserves adding to those from prior years maybe it was current year.
But we have had one other company talk about med mal or healthcare in general being an issue.
Can you talk about what has happened there from a claim standpoint what gave rise to that strengthening? So I think it's something this is Craig Jay that we really started noticing back in 2011 that medical severities have been up across our healthcare book.
So whether that was hospitals or nursing homes or nurses or dentists caused by just an increasing really just the outcome claim severity outcome.
And I think what we’ve also mentioned that over particularly the last couple of years maybe heightened sensitivity to what we thought a lot of people chasing making it a more competitive market and to certain degree chasing yesterday’s returns in that.
So healthcare has also been affected by rate declines or competitive pressures over that time.
But as to the losses it's really medical severity and it's pretty much across the -- has been across the book of business and we think we’ve reacted appropriate to it in terms of our underwriting posture as well as how we’ve set current loss ratios and reserves.
Got it.
And then lastly you had talked about some large loss activity I think it was certainly in the international side maybe in specialty as well.
Is that something you can quantify? In other words the type of large loss activity you saw this quarter relative to what you would normally expect to see? Well it was -- I don’t know if I can quantify it for you.
Well I can quantify it in terms of what the impact was on the specialty loss ratio.
So we had seen a heightened level of losses in the public D&amp;O book and as we said in our healthcare book.
So it going to by definition losses in public D&amp;O were large so we just keep seeing increase of really frequency of large losses across our D&amp;O and the other.
So that caused us to both add to prior year reserves and specialty.
Now those were offset by other good news so we didn’t have any adverse development especially.
But it did caused us to increase the full year specialty loss ratio by just a little less than 0.5 point.
And then that is reflected in as you understand when you do a re-estimation fourth quarter do fourth quarters of catch up so it elevated the specialty loss ratio this quarter by little over 1.5 points.
We’ll take our next question from Jeff Schmidt with William Blair.
A question about the limited partnership investments.
It sounds like maybe 65% or 70% are in hedge funds.
Is that -- pretty much all of that mark-to-market immediately? I am trying to get a sense on how much of the total portfolio has a lag in the mark-to-market.
You’re correct and it's about 70% of that limited partnership portfolio are hedge funds and it's about the same amount that is current mark-to-market.
And is the remaining amount more -- is it basically private equity funds? Its private equity and some real estate.
And in there may be a lag there? There is a -- the longest lag you would see is three months and that’s only about 15% of that portfolio the other is just a month lag.
But I think you should -- I would encourage you to view those LB [ph] results as very much a market impact timing.
That’s helpful and could you maybe discuss some of the loss trends in some of your key lines like workers' comp and professional liability? Could you speak up we couldn’t hear that question? Could you discuss some of the loss trends in some of your key lines like workers' comp and professional liability? Workers' comp I think the loss trends are improving it's getting better.
And if we look at pricing we’ve had the benefit of some good rate increases in workers’ comp over the past few years.
It's slightly negative on the rate side but loss trends are improving.
Part of that is also due to the mix.
We’re writing more white-collar work comp and getting out of the industrial or blue collar typical work comp which tends to have more catastrophic claims.
So yes moving in the right direction in work comp.
What was the other line you asked about? Professional liability? As Craig mentioned public D&amp;O you right pretty big limits and many of these losses follow limit.
So we just had a situation that we had a couple of them in the fourth quarter that’s the nature of that business it's lumpy but I would not say it’s a trend that’s really effecting the whole portfolio.
We'll take our next question from Ron Bobman with Capital Returns.
I had a question -- Craig you mentioned briefly in some of the LTC actions something to the effect that limiting or stopping the addition of new lives or new accounts moving into the closed block.
And I didn't understand what you meant by that if I am close to sort of repeating what you said.
Yes you are what I said and hopefully is not more confusing we closed the group business to new customer meaning sponsoring company entrance a long time ago but we have allowed new employees of the existing groups to continue to buy coverage.
So that meant that the number of lives in the group businesses is remained relatively stable over the last 10 years.
So the action that we've taken over the last year is to really go back through all of those group sponsors and as effective February 1st of this year we've closed that book to any new entrants.
So then our -- that book just kind of naturally declined over time.
So if you're new employee of one our sponsoring organizations you can no longer buy group Long Term Care.
Got you okay thanks.
And so then is it sort of safe to assume that you are writing no new Long Term Care group or individual? That's correct.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Bob Glasspiegel with Janney.
Statutory earnings for 2015 and likely dividend capabilities for 2016? Statuary earnings were little north of 1 billion so 1.1 billion.
So dividend capacity would be approximately 10% would be that or 10% of stat surplus which is let's say 10.7 billion.
And then you understand the calculation is kind of a running calculation less whatever amount of dividend you've made over the prior 12 months.
Right.
Given that your overall risks seem to be shrinking in 2016 there is no reason why you wouldn't have the capability to take that if you wanted to.
Is that a valid assumption? That's correct and then I think you should think of it our dividend capacity is over the course of the whole 12 months as being roughly equal to that earnings or 10% of surplus.
Right.
Your partnerships didn't return quite as much as I had modeled in light of where the markets were.
Were there any impairments notably that held back real estate maybe or --? No not at all Bob so there are no impairments or nothing unusual in the partnership that’s just to reflecting of the market.
And remember that the way we’ve constructed that portfolio is to give us what we presume to be or intend to be better returns but less volatile returns than what you see in the S&amp;P so when you have a big spike up in S&amp;P we get immediate response but if you look at over the course of the full year our LT [ph] returns were 3% which is twice what the S&amp;P 500 index would have performed.
So it just reflection of the responsiveness and immediacy of the ration to S&amp;P.
We're not -- remember that we have a bit of long equity bias but it's not just a long equity portfolio.
And just the choppiness of the last -- I asked Loews this question as well but the choppiness of the first quarter does that make you want to increase your commitments decrease or you are just staying the course in a very choppy market than change how you think about things? Well I think actually if you -- that's a good question and if you -- once you dig into our published material you'll notice that we've actually taken money off the table and the LPs reacted given our outlook for the market.
It reduced our -- we reduced our allocation so that asset class and likely to continue perhaps reduced it further as we're going to forward.
So the weakness -- got you.
No I think we so --.
No I meant this quarter no no that was a great sale before.
Thank you.
Appreciate the answers.
Thank you.
At this time there are no additional questions in the queue.
I would like to turn it back to over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
See you next quarter.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.