Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Paulsen? Thank you very much Thea.
Good morning everyone.
This is Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations for CenterPoint Energy.
I'd like to welcome you to our first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will discuss our first quarter 2011 results and will also provide highlights of the key activities.
In addition to Mr.
McClanahan and Mr.
Whitlock we have other members of management with us who may assist in answering questions following their prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q filed earlier today are posted on our website which is www.centerpointenergy.com under the Investors Section.
I would like to remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before Mr.
McClanahan begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available until 6:00 p.m.
Central Time to Thursday May 12 2011.
To access the replay please call 1 (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter the conference ID number 52480366.
You can also listen to an online replay of the call through the website that I just mentioned.
We will archive the call on CenterPoint Energy's website for at least one year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David McClanahan.
Thank you Marianne.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning I will talk about a significant development that occurred during the first quarter then describe our first quarter financial results and provide the operating results for each of our business segments.
Let me begin with the discussion of our true-up appeal.
As most of you probably know the 1999 law which restructured the electric industry in Texas allowed electric utilities to recover stranded costs and certain other transition expenses in what is known as a "true-up proceeding." In 2005 the Texas PUC issued a decision that failed to allow us to recover some of the costs to which we believe we were entitled.
As a result we took a $947 million after-tax extraordinary loss and appealed the PUC decision.
The appeal was heard in the district court followed by the Court of Appeals and finally the Texas Supreme Court.
On March 18 the Supreme Court issued its decision in our true-up appeal.
The court reversed the PUC on a number of points and remanded the case back to the commission for implementation.
As a result of the decision of the Supreme Court and of the earlier decision by the Court of Appeals we will be able to seek in the remand proceeding recovery of the following: $210 million of excess mitigation credits paid to retail electric providers; $146 million of deferred federal income taxes that had reduced stranded costs; $378 million in depreciation; and $440 million from the capacity auction true-up.
The Supreme Court also determined that the PUC should have valued our generation assets for stranded cost purposes by using the subsequent sales price of those assets.
This decision reduced the amount we can seek to recover by $252 million.
The net result of the court's decision is approximately $922 million in additional stranded costs and transition expenses.
A number of parties have asked for a rehearing of the Supreme Court's decision.
The court has 180 days to act on those motions or they are denied.
Based on the court's decision we believe we are entitled to seek recovery of approximately $1.85 billion in the remand proceedings.
We conclude the calculation of interest through the third quarter of this year.
We will also seek a financing order from the PUC to allow us to issue transition bonds to recover the allowed amounts.
While there is no statutory deadline for the PUC to act on the remand interest on the unrecovered true-up balance will continue to accrue at a rate of about 8% until the transition bonds are issued.
In his remarks Gary will discuss the expected accounting treatment and cash flow impacts of the true-up decision.
Now let me review the company's overall results for the first quarter.
This morning we reported net income of $148 million or $0.35 per diluted share.
This compares to net income of $114 million or $0.29 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2010.
Operating income for the first quarter was $364 million compared to $357 million last year.
We also reported lower interest expense and federal income taxes this year compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Houston Electric had a solid quarter reporting operating income of $68 million about $3 million below the first quarter of 2010.
Operating income benefited from growth of more than 29 000 customers since the first quarter of last year.
This represents a growth rate of about 1.4% and is an indication that our service territory continues to rebound.
Offsetting the benefit of customer growth were higher operating expenses due primarily to system reliability programs.
The first quarter results do not reflect the impact of our recent Houston Electric rate case.
The Texas PUC approved the final order at its open meeting last week but the signed order has yet to be issued.
We do not expect new tariffs to be implemented before the third quarter.
As I indicated earlier this year the cash flow impact from this case should be minimal but we anticipate Houston Electric's operating income will be negatively impacted by approximately $30 million on an annualized basis.
Our Natural Gas Distribution business had another good quarter reporting operating income of $142 million or about $3 million above the first quarter of last year.
This increase resulted primarily from lower bad debt expense partially offset by increases in other operating expenses.
Last month the Texas Railroad Commission approved a rate settlement that is expected to result in increased annual revenues of approximately $4.6 million in our South Texas service territory.
We had requested an increase of a little over $6 million.
The new rates were implemented this month.
We are progressing well in the implementation of advanced metering technology in both our Electric and Natural Gas Distribution utilities in Houston.
Houston Electric is now a little over halfway through the deployment of its advanced metering system having installed approximately 1.2 million smart meters.
We expect this deployment to be completed in the middle of 2012.
Earlier this year we began installing remote electronic transmitters on the 1.2 million natural gas meters in and around our Houston service territory and expect to be completed in the first half of 2013.
This new technology is expected to enhance the information available to our customers and significantly improve the operating efficiency of these business units.
Our Competitive Natural Gas Sales and Services business reported operating income of $10 million compared to $15 million for the first quarter of 2010.
After adjusting from mark-to-market accounting for derivatives both quarters' operating income would have been approximately $12 million.
Our Retail division had a good quarter experiencing increases in both the number of customers it serves and sales volumes.
Although our Wholesale division continues to face a challenging business environment we expect to see some improvement over last year.
Now let me turn to our midstream businesses Interstate Pipelines and Field Services.
Both of these units reported results ahead of last year.
Our Interstate Pipelines recorded operating income of $76 million compared to $72 million for the first quarter of 2010.
Our core business continues to perform well with increased margin from our Carthage to Perryville pipeline as well as increased revenues related to several new firm contracts to serve the power generation facilities on our system.
Ancillary services revenues however were below levels of last year.
Operating expenses were lower than the first quarter of last year principally the result of an insurance settlement recorded in the first quarter of this year.
Equity income from SESH our joint venture with Spectra was $4 million compared to $3 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Our Field Services unit reported operating income of $36 million compared to $23 million for the first quarter of 2010.
The increase in operating income was primarily the result of the long-term agreements with subsidiaries of Shell and Encana.
In addition to operating income we also recorded equity income of $2 million for both the first quarter of 2011 and 2010 from our jointly owned Waskom facilities.
Our gathering volumes were up significantly this quarter.
Average gathering volumes were a little over 2 billion cubic feet per day an increase of about 43% from the first quarter of last year.
Gathering volumes related to shale reserves accounted for about 60% of our total volume this year compared to 32% last year.
Gathering volumes from our traditional basins were down about 15% from the first quarter of last year and about 5% from the most recent quarter.
Drilling activity in these areas continues to be modest.
The few major systems to gather and treat production in the Haynesville shale continue to progress well.
The first 700 million cubic feet per day phase of the Magnolia System is now complete except for well connects.
In the first quarter of this year we substantially completed construction of the 600 million cubic feet per day Olympia System and the 200 million cubic feet per day expansion of the Magnolia System both on schedule and on budget.
There are still several pipeline interconnections and additional well connects remaining to be completed.
During the first quarter throughput on the Magnolia System averaged approximately 550 million cubic feet per day and the Olympia System averaged over 300 million cubic feet per day.
We expect throughput on these 2 systems to increase over the course of the year and be at system capacity by early 2012.
As you may recall the Shell and Encana contracts provide for a step-up of annual throughput guarantees as certain milestones are reached.
Various milestones are expected to be achieved during 2011 and by early next year the annual throughput guarantees will be at the contracted capacities.
For planning purposes we are assuming that about half of the remaining 1.3 billion cubic feet per day in expansion rights will be elected over the next 5 years.
In addition to the Haynesville shale area we also realized throughput growth of about 34% in the areas that include the Fayetteville and Woodford shales driven principally by projects we are developing for XTO Energy a subsidiary of Exxon Mobil.
Over the last 3 years we have deployed over $140 million for scalable projects in the Woodford and Fayetteville shales and are positioned to build additional facilities over time to meet our customers' needs.
Overall I believe our company performed well this quarter.
In his remarks Gary will discuss our earnings guidance for 2011.
In closing I'd like to remind you of the $19.75 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on April 21.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence the Board of Directors has in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
With that I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Today I would like to discuss the accounting treatment and cash flow impacts of the Supreme Court's decision in our true-up case recent credit rating agency actions and our earnings guidance.
As David mentioned in his remarks on the basis of the Supreme Court's March 18 decision we plan to seek to recover approximately $1.85 billion through the sale of non-recourse securitization bonds.
The $1.85 billion includes interest through September 30 certain costs associated with the sale of our generation assets and an adjustment associated with the benefit of deferred taxes.
This entire amount will be subject to federal and state income taxes at a rate of approximately 36%.
Although we will receive the cash when the securitization bonds are issued these taxes will be paid over the life of the bonds as we collect this amount from customers.
As you know we cannot be certain when the Supreme Court will dispose of the motions for rehearing or when the PUC will issue its order on remand and the necessary financing order.
However for purposes of this discussion I have assumed that $1.85 billion of bonds are issued on September 30.
If the bonds are issued later than September 30 interest will continue to accrue at approximately 8%.
Let me explain how the $1.85 billion would be recorded.
Assuming a 36% tax rate we expect to recognize just under $1.2 billion in after-tax earnings.
This amount will be recognized in 2 different time frames.
Once the decision is finalized the company would immediately recognize after-tax earnings of approximately $830 million to reflect the recovery of additional stranded costs and transition expenses plus the debt component of the interest amount offset by the benefit of deferred taxes.
The equity component of the interest amount which we estimate to be approximately $365 million after taxes would not be recognized upfront but will be recognized over the life of the securitization bonds.
Regarding the use of the proceeds from the sale of the securitization bonds our fundamental objectives have not changed.
We will continue to seek opportunities to invest in accretive projects and to strengthen the balance sheet.
Depending upon the timing and availability of these opportunities we may also consider a modest stock buyback.
Now let me address 2 recent positive credit rating developments.
Following the Texas Supreme Court's decision in our true-up case Moody's placed under review for possible upgrade the ratings of CenterPoint Energy and our subsidiaries CE and CERC.
Moody's said that during the course of this review over the next few months it will assess the financial impact from the Supreme Court ruling including our plans for the securitization proceeds.
Last month S&amp;P announced that it has affirmed CenterPoint's corporate credit rating at BBB but also revised the ratings outlook on CenterPoint Energy CE and CERC to positive from stable.
In the release accompanying the announcement S&amp;P said that the rating action results from improvements in CenterPoint's business and financial risk profile that may support a higher rating and reflects S&amp;P's expectations that CenterPoint will prudently utilize the proceeds expected to result from the Texas Supreme Court's decision in the true-up case.
Finally let me discuss our earnings guidance.
We were pleased with our overall business performance in the first quarter and this morning we reaffirmed our 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $1.04 to $1.14 per diluted share.
This guidance does not include the earnings impact of the Texas Supreme Court's decision in our true-up case which I described earlier.
In providing earnings guidance we have taken into consideration our year-to-date performance as well as various economic operational and regulatory assumptions.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Marianne.
Thank you Gary.
And with that we will now open the call to questions.
In the interest of time I would ask you to please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thea would you please give the instructions on how to ask a question? [Operator Instructions]  The first question will come from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Gary can I just ask a clarifying question here? So the accounting aside and I appreciate that color you're saying that we're going to be paying out the income taxes on the new securitized bonds over the life of those bonds? That means we're actually going to be getting something close to $1.85 billion --  I mean if it all went well we'll be getting $1.85 billion of cash on hand and then we'll just see like a $20 million to $25 million bleed out per year? Is that how we should think of it? Yes I would think of it when -- the first part of that is correct.
We will sell securitization bonds in this example $1.85 billion that we would receive.
The tax then will be paid out at approximately 36% and you can think about that when you see the term of those bonds.
So in an assumption that you have 14-year bonds you would pay the income tax over the 14 years as you collect the money from the customers.
Okay appreciate that.
And just on a related question and understanding you guys don't necessarily know the minds of the PUC but do you get the sense that they are working in parallel with respect to the TSC [Texas Supreme Court] i.e.
that they're working on the remand order as we speak or is this something where it's going to be very very linear and we have to have the Supreme Court either issue their ruling or wait 180 days before the PUC will even start working on this? Scott why don't you address that.
Carl my expectation is that the commission has reviewed the Supreme Court's order as it exists so far.
We'll review the motions for rehearing that people have filed including the PUC itself that they will do some preliminary work to understand how that process will play out potentially looking at prior financing orders and the models that we used to plug in the inputs from the Supreme Court's ultimate decision so that we will be in a position to move fairly quickly after the Supreme Court rules on the motions for rehearings.
But in terms of taking any formal steps I think the PUC will wait until after the Supreme Court has disposed of the motions for rehearing.
Understood.
That's very helpful.
And then lastly if I could just any investment update if you will as far as the status of either the Eagle Ford or the Haynesville -- and with the Haynesville I'm not necessarily talking about the Encana shale but there at one point was sort of the intimation that maybe some other types of facilities support facilities water et cetera might be out there.
I didn't know if you could touch on either of those.
I'll get Greg to answer that for you Carl.
We continue to work on several items in the Haynesville relative to our contracts with Shell and Encana and those are -- would evolve around water systems or other services as well.
Nothing to report at this point in time.
We continue to exchange proposals and it's really up to our customers to dictate the time frame there but we feel pretty good that we'll -- eventually something's going to happen.
At Eagle Ford we continue to press forward on opportunities in Eagle Ford.
One of our largest customers had a request for proposals come out and we've responded to that and we'll continue to respond to those.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.</strong> Gary also I want to comment on a related question.
In terms of how you're going to recognize the earnings from this decision it appears to me that the $830 million that you would recognize upfront was an obligation [ph] recognized as a one-time item gain.
The $365 million that gets recognized over the life of the bonds would you consider that as ongoing earnings or would you look at that separate from your when you're talking about ongoing earnings with us? No I would look at that as ongoing earnings.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Second question.
With regards to the use of proceeds as you mentioned investments and potentially a modest share buyback should we assume that discussions with regards to setting up an MLP are no longer on your radar screen or is that still under consideration? I think certainly from a funding perspective we're looking at that different because we certainly are looking at a significant amount of cash.
I think the MLP though perhaps has other benefits and I think our position really remains the same.
One our guys are working diligently as you heard from Greg to originate new business in our midstream areas so to the extent we got significant projects.
We would look at an MLP because we'd think about the very long term when's the best financing vehicle for the very long term.
And so we're here to run this company for the longer term not the near term.
So I think an MLP certainly is not off the radar screen.
I just think that the events that would be the catalyst for it really need to be significant projects in our midstream business.
It's really not necessarily a near-term funding issue.
And of course there's been the qualitative aspects that you have to look at is the valuation for the total company in terms of some of the parts.
We certainly continue to look at that with that structure being helpful in that regard but I would not say it's off the radar screen.
I think our screen though that we've put it through is a bit different now with the significant funding that we have coming from the securitization bonds.
Inc.</strong> Right.
And last question to clarify what is share buyback -- when you think along those lines you're thinking in the $50 million $100 million range or how would you define modest? Well I'm really not prepared this morning to put a number on that.
I think "modest" speaks for itself and certainly we would not use the majority of these funds for a share buyback.
What we're going to -- let me step back from that.
What we want to do of course is invest these dollars in accretive projects.
That's job number one.
And our guys are continuing to work hard to find those very good opportunities.
So that's job number one.
To the extent as I've mentioned the timing of that is different then we'll look at paying down debt and we look at a share buyback as well.
So don't try to pin me down on a number but it would be modest because our goal really is to invest in this business.
And that's best for our shareholders over the long term and it's best for our credits over the long term is to have really high-quality accretive investments.
The next question will come from Steve Gambuzza with Longbow Capital.
Question for you on the numbers you put out regarding the volumes on Magnolia and Olympia you said 550 on Magnolia and 350 on Olympia is that correct? 300 on Olympia.
550 combined.
Okay.
And is that -- just so I have this right.
The Magnolia is about 900 capacity and the Olympia Phase I -- I'm sorry the Magnolia and the Magnolia I expansion are together 900 of capacity and Olympia Phase I is 600 of capacity? That's correct.
Okay.
So you're roughly running kind of 55% or so capacity utilization in the first quarter and you'd expect to be running full when you exit 2011 is that right? By 2012 -- early 2012 is when we expect to ramp up to the contracted quantities yes.
Okay.
And so should we expect -- I mean we look at the operating profit that Field Services put out this quarter would you expect kind of consistent sequential increases as we go through the year as the system continues to ramp up? Well I think we hope to see some fairly consistent improvements in profitability.
The wildcard here Steve is our traditional basins and they have flattened out some last year they declined a little bit more in the first quarter of this year.
But we had some unusual weather we had wellhead freeze offs and stuff like that so we have to kind of look at it again in the second quarter.
But I think we should see continued profitability from these investments we've made in Shell and Encana.
And as we said the Fayetteville especially in southern Woodford those volumes are picking up too more than offsetting the decline we're seeing in the traditional basins.
Great.
And then just finally it seems like O&amp;M expense found a level versus last quarter after a couple of significant increases over the past couple of quarters.
Is this a pretty good run rate to use for Field Services O&amp;M expense going forward? It's getting close to that.
Most of the facilities are now in service and we have been putting new facility in service over the last 12 months so once they're all in service especially the AMI [ph] facilities I think we'll have a good run rate.
We're getting very close to that I would think.
The next question will come from Debra Bromberg with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> I was just wondering if I could get clarity on something.
The $365 million that you referred to earlier was that the equity return? Yes.
Yes yes.
Inc.</strong> And are you securitizing that up front? Yes the entire $1.85 billion will be securitized.
Inc.</strong> Right but the securitization proceeds that includes both the debt and equity return? That includes the total amount right in that example I gave.
Inc.</strong> And the $365 million that you're recognizing over the life of the bonds is that non-cash? That would be non-cash that's correct.
Deferred taxes will be set up on all of this and that would be non-cash that's correct.
Inc.</strong> And one other question.
Have you said what the deferred tax liability is? Not specifically.
We've estimated it at $1.85 [billion]...
About $600 million and that'll be kind of ratcheted off over the life of the securitization bond.
[indiscernible]  Present value...
I'm sorry Debbie -- Debra what was your question again? I missed it.
The deferred tax liability is that around $600 million? Yes that's correct.
Inc.</strong> Is that the present value? No no.
That's just -- you set up that deferred tax when you set up the accounting for the proceeds and you pay those -- are you referring to the deferred taxes that reduced the amount that we recovered through securitization? Inc.</strong> Yes.
Yes.
That's not that big it's about $125 million or so that reduced the amount essentially reduced the amount of interest we get to recover.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Yves Siegel with Crédit Suisse.
I have 2 questions.
Number one could you describe the investment opportunity in the Eagle Ford in terms of the RFP that you received? And the second question is could you describe how you view the acquisition landscape across the different businesses? Greg do you want to comment on that? This is a confidential kind of RFP and we can't provide very much color other than it's primarily directed at gas gathering and the liquids associated with that.
That's exactly right David it is under FCA [ph] right now [indiscernible] but part of it is right in our [indiscernible] it's traditional gathering and then the other part would be some higher pressure can take away price both gas and liquids.
And you wouldn't be looking at processing then? Possibly.
And in terms of just the landscape of acquisitions there's lots of activity going on in the electric space these days.
A lot of that is not necessarily driven by pure regulated considerations and of course we look at things from a regulated standpoint.
So I think there's more activity there now so if that means anything I guess only time will tell.
Certainly on the midstream businesses there's been activity there.
They're fairly pricey as we see them.
We would much rather be investing in organic growth as opposed to paying a high multiple but we continue to look at those opportunities and I think there'll be some opportunities over time.
If I could just follow-up real quick.
When we think about the Eagle Ford and your strategic advantage there is it more so because of the customer connection as opposed to any synergies with existing assets? Yes I think that's right.
I mean we obviously know the business well but it is customer relationship.
We do not have any assets today in the Eagle Ford.
I would say definitely the relationship is very important.
Also I think just on our core business of gathering I don't think there is a strategic advantage anybody would have over us just because they have existing facilities.
And when you're talking about well connects and taking them to control points.
So I think we're on an equal playing field on that type of relationship as well.
Last question I promise.
Just on the re-contracting what's the situation there? With the backhaul? Yes.
We're making some progress on trying to get some dollars or some capacity re-contracted.
I think we'll have some success there this year.
We probably will not get the full $500 million a day re-contracted and certainly what we do get re-contracted will be at a lower rate than we're being paid today.
We still estimate I think we said this last time about a $20 million annual impact this year from the loss of that backhaul.
That's including our estimate for offsetting with some re-contracting amounts.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will turn the conference back over to Ms.
Paulsen for any closing remarks.
Thank you again Thea.
Since we do not have any further questions we would like to end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today and we appreciate your support very much.
Have a great day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Paulsen? Thank you very much Dea.
Good morning everyone.
I'm Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations for CenterPoint Energy.
I'd like to welcome you to our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will discuss our second quarter 2011 results and will also provide highlights on other key activities.
In addition to Mr.
McClanahan and Mr.
Whitlock we have other members of management with us who may assist in answering questions following their prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q filed earlier today are posted on our website which is www.centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I would like to remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before Mr.
McClanahan begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available until 6:00 p.m.
Central Time through Thursday August 11 2011.
To access the replay please call 1 (800) 642-1687 or (706) 645-9291 and enter the conference ID number 75341557.
You can also listen to an online replay of the call through the website that I just mentioned.
We will archive the call on CenterPoint Energy's website for at least one year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David McClanahan.
Thank you Marianne.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in the company.
This morning I will update you on our true-up appeal then describe our second quarter financial results and provide the operating results for each of our business segments.
Let me begin with our true-up appeal.
As most of you probably know the 1999 law which restructured the electric industry in Texas allowed electric utilities to recover certain costs and certain other transition expenses in what is known as a true-up proceeding.
In 2005 the Texas PUC issued a decision that tailed to allow us to recover some of the amounts which we had requested in our application.
As a result we took a $1.5 billion pretax charge to earnings and appealed the PUC decision.
The appeal was heard in the District Court followed by the Court of Appeals and finally the Texas Supreme Court.
In March of this year the Supreme Court issued a favorable decision in our appeal and reversed the  PUC on a number of points.
Several parties subsequently filed motions for rehearing which have been denied by the court.
The case has now been remanded to the commission for implementation.
Based on the court's decision we will be seeking recovery of approximately $1.9 billion in the remand proceeding an amount which includes interest through October of this year.
Intravenous [ph] of asset condition to hold hearings to review several issues including the tax normalization issue that arose from the PUC's original decision the interest rates to be applied to the true-up balance and certain tax benefits and the recoverability of transaction costs associated with the sale of Texas Genco and rate case expenses.
We believe the commission can properly complete any necessary reviews of these issues.
And while there has not been a procedural schedule established we hope these proceedings can be concluded by early fall.
Now let me review the company's overall results for the second quarter.
This morning we reported net income of $119 million or $0.28 per diluted share.
This compares to net income of $81 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2010.
Operating income for the second quarter was $303 million compared to $263 million last year.
We also reported $10 million in lower interest expense this year compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Houston Electric had a strong quarter reporting operating income of $153 million about $31 million above the second quarter of 2010.
Operating income benefited from increased usage primarily related to warmer weather.
Higher transmission revenues received from other providers partially offset by higher transmission cost and lower depreciation expense.
We also benefited from growth of more than 32 000 customers since the second quarter of last year.
This represents a growth rate of over 1.5% and is an indication that our service territory continues to rebound.
Offsetting these benefits were higher operating expenses.
The second quarter results do not reflect the impact of our recent Houston Electric rate case.
Although there are pending motions for rehearing we now expect new tariffs to be implemented in early September.
As I indicated earlier this year the cash flow impact from this case should be minimal but we anticipate Houston Electric's operating income will be negatively impacted by approximately $30 million on an annualized basis once the new rates are in effect.
Assuming rates are implemented on September 1 we expect the negative impact on operating income this year to be approximately $10 million.
Our natural gas distribution business had a solid quarter reporting operating income of $13 million or about $3 million above the second quarter of last year.
This increase resulted primarily from rate changes increased usage due in part to weather and growth of over 27 000 customers partially offset by increases in operating expenses.
We are progressing well in the implementation of advanced metering technology in both our electric and natural gas distribution utilities in Houston.
Houston Electric is now more than 2/3 through the deployment of an advanced metering system by having installed approximately 1.5 million smart meters.
We expect this deployment to be completed by the middle of next year.
Earlier this year we began installing remote electronic transmitters on the 1.2 million natural gas meters in and around our Houston service territory.
We have completed an installation of over 250 000 transmitters which is a bit ahead of schedule and expect to be completed in the first half of 2013.
This new technology is expected to not only provide customer benefits but to improve the operating efficiencies of these 2 business units.
Our competitive natural gas sales and services businesses reported operating income of $3 million compared to an operating loss of $6 million for the second quarter of 2010.
After adjusting for mark-to-market accounting for derivatives the second quarter of 2011 would have reflected an operating loss of $1 million compared to an operating income of $2 million for last year.
Our retail business continued to perform well.
We saw an increase in both retail customers and sales volumes.
Overall however throughput was down and we continue to face a challenging market environment mainly as a result of reduced basis spreads.
Now let me turn to our midstream businesses interstate pipelines and field services.
Our interstate pipelines recorded operating income of $60 million compared to $67 million for the second quarter of 2010.
In the second quarter we received lower revenues due to an expiring backhaul contract as well as restructured long-term contracts with our natural gas distribution affiliates.
We also experienced lower off-system sales and higher operating expenses.
However this was offset somewhat by increased revenues from ancillary services including new services available to our power generation customers.
Equity income from SESH our joint venture with Spectra was $5 million compared to $4 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Our field services unit reported operating income of $39 million compared to $31 million for the second quarter of 2009.
The increase in operating income was primarily the result of long-term agreements in the Haynesville and Fayetteville shale place.
This was somewhat offset by lower prices that we received from selling retained gas as well as higher expenses primarily related to facility expansions and a one time $2.7 million sales tax adjustment.
In addition to operating income we also recorded equity income of $3 million for both the second quarter of 2011 and 2010 from our jointly-owned Waskom facilities.
Our gathering volumes were up significantly this quarter.
Average gathering volumes were approximately 2.2 billion cubic feet per day an increase of about 26% from the second quarter of last year and up more than 6% from last quarter.
Gathering volumes related to shale reserves accounted for approximately 63% of our total volume this quarter compared to about 46% for the second quarter of last year.
Gathering volumes from our traditional basins were at levels comparable to the first quarter of this year but were down approximately 16% from the second quarter of last year.
We have completed the major construction milestones on our Magnolia and Olympia Gathering Systems in the Haynesville Shale.
The Magnolia System was completed last year the Olympia System as well as a 200 million cubic feet per day expansion of the Magnolia System were substantially completed earlier this year.
Our remaining expenditures relate primarily to the connection of additional wells to the system.
We are also investing in additional compression and aiming facilities in the area that will provide opportunities to gather volumes for other producers.
During the second quarter throughput on the Magnolia System averaged approximately 535 million cubic feet per day which is slightly below the first quarter of this year due to continuing gas quality issues which are being addressed by our customers as well as delays in well completions.
The Olympia System averaged about 430 million cubic feet per day during the second quarter an increase of more than 30% over last year -- last quarter I should say.
We expect throughput on these 2 systems to increase over the course of the year and be at or near system capacity in early 2012.
In addition to the Haynesville Shale area we have also realized throughput growth of about 9% since last quarter and over 40% compared to the second quarter of last year in the areas that include the Fayetteville and Woodford shales primarily driven by projects we are developing for Exxon Mobil.
As we have discussed in the past our principal contracts in the Haynesville and Fayetteville shales provide for throughput or rate of return guarantees which reduces our sensitivity to throughput volumes.
While a number of producers are shifting their emphasis from linear shale plays to more liquid-rich plays our principal customers have maintained a consistent level of drilling in the Haynesville Fayetteville and Woodford shales since the beginning of the year.
While we anticipate continued growth in the development of these areas the current low gas price environment may slow the pace of expansion.
However as mentioned on previous calls we are interested in expanding our business to the more liquid-rich plays and continue to pursue projects in the Eagle Ford Granite Wash and Marcellus plays.
In closing I'd like to remind you of the $0.1975 per share quarter dividend declared by our Board of Directors on July 19.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence the Board of Directors has in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
With that I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Today I would like to discuss the recent positive actions taken by the credit rating agencies provide an update on the status of our revolving credit facilities and discuss our earnings guidance.
Let me start with our credit ratings.
You may recall that during our first quarter investor call I noted that S&amp;P had a firm definitive point family corporate credit ratings and revised their ratings outlook to positive from stable.
I'm very pleased to note that we have experienced 2 favorable developments since our last investor call.
Following the Texas Supreme Court's decision in our true-up case Moody's placed under review for a possible upgrade the ratings to CNP and our operating subsidiaries.
On June 29 Moody's announced that it had concluded its review and upgraded the long- and short-term ratings of both CNP and CERC.
The senior unsecured ratings of CNP were upgraded to Baa3 from Ba1 and the senior unsecured ratings of CERC were upgraded to Baa2 from Baa3.
In addition the ratings of CE were confirmed and the outlook for all 3 companies is stable.
This means that the senior unsecured ratings of our parent company are now investment grade with all 3 of the agencies.
This as you know had been one of the key objectives for our company since its inception.
In addition on June 22 Fitch revised the ratings outlook on CNP and CE to positive from stable.
We are very pleased with the actions of these agencies.
Now let me describe the status of our revolving credit facilities.
We are in the process of working with our banks to replace our various revolving credit facilities which are scheduled to expire in June of 2012.
We have begun the general syndication of these facilities and expect to close on them in the third quarter.
Each of the replacement facilities should be approximately the same size as the ones expiring and we are proposing 5-year maturities for each.
We expect the economic terms to be in line with the terms of other similar facilities that have been syndicated in the market recently.
In common with the experience of most borrowers drawn and undrawn calls under the new facilities will be higher than the costs under the facilities we negotiated in 2007.
We are taking this action now to take advantage of what looks to be a very receptive market in order to lock in our short-term liquidity sources for the next 5 years.
Finally let me discuss our earnings guidance.
As David mentioned we are pleased with the overall financial performance of our businesses so far this year.
And this morning we reaffirmed our 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $1.04 to $1.14 per diluted share.
As a reminder this guidance does not include the earnings impact of the true-up case.
In addition in providing earnings guidance we have taken into consideration our year-to-date performance as well as various economic operational and regulatory assumptions.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Marianne.
Thank you Gary.
And with that we will now open the call to questions.
In the interest of time I ask you to please limit yourself to one question and a follow up.
Dea would you please give the instructions on how to ask the questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from James Krapfel with MorningStar.
Are you having any discussions with Shell and Encana with regards to exercising their extension rates or has the low natural gas environment -- are they taking more of a delay in regard to expanding their throughput capacity? We haven't had any discussions recently.
We obviously continue to -- we talk regularly about their production schedule and where they're headed.
In our 5-year plan we've got about half of their expansions options or soon-to-be exercise.
I think based on the low gas price environment I'm thinking today we may push that out a little bit.
But it -- I mean we're not -- we still think they're going to exercise and expand the system it may be a little later than we had originally told them.
The next question will come from Carl Kirst with BMO capital.
I was just wondering David you mentioned that obviously you guys are still looking at doing things more on the liquid to rich via the Eagle Ford Granite Wash Marcellus.
Last we spoke we were thinking maybe we might get more color on that by the end of the year.
Is that still roughly the time frame we're tracking to? Or is there any additional color around those efforts at this point? No Carl I think that is pretty much the same time frame.
We had thought that there was going to be some -- at least some paring down of the bidders in one RFP by midsummer but the customer's delayed its action until later on this year.
So we still think by the end of the year we'll have some insight into whether or not we're going to get any Eagle Ford facilities.
Understood.
Also just on the pipeline side one it might be too early but didn't know if you had any comments on the open season of thunder.
But with the others I wanted to ask about was in the text of the press release there mentions the backhaul contract.
I don't know if that's the Chesapeake contract I thought that expired July 1.
So I just wanted to get a better sense of the timing of that expiration and indeed if we've been able to offset it even if somewhat.
The Chesapeake backhaul did expire.
The original contract I think the 1st of June they are still continuing to take certain services from us under a different modified contract so they still are buying their backhaul services from us.
I don't think that's a long-term agreement.
And we are making -- having some progress in selling some additional capacity on CP that's been made available by some additional compression we put on the system and just running the system a little better.
So I think we have made some progress.
Our view was that this was going to be a $20 million impact plus or minus and we still think that's the case over the long term.
So I think things are going according to plan there and that was the Chesapeake contract that we referred to.
In terms of thunder it is a little bit too early.
We did get a fair amount of interest and we're in discussions with the folks that expressed their interest.
And I think it's too early to tell if there's a need for additional pipe there or whether existing facilities can be used to service some of these needs.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie.
A couple of questions on the utility we see higher O&amp;M I know a lot of that was expected.
Anywhere to quantify how much of that is related to the drought conditions down there and the stress on the grid from extreme weather? If you look at this Andrew most of the O&amp;M increases during labor a little overtime the medical benefits and kind of cats and dogs there's no one big item.
I don't really think it's related to the drought situation we do have some increased transmission costs but those are offset by transmission revenues more than offset the revenues there.
So I don't think the droughts having that big a deal but this grid is stressed.
We've been under alert all week and it's hot in Texas.
But I don't think that's creating any operating expense increases to speak of.
Okay.
Great.
A little question for you on that I see that you appealed the rate case in Houston.
Are you able to comment at all on what specific issues you're debating there and where we might get some more clarity? This is Scott Rozzell.
Actually the appeal that we filed on that rate case is really a procedural nicety that lawyers love to talk about.
The case is still active before the commission on motions for rehearing and there will be other appeals issued by the parties once the order on -- the final order of rehearing is issued.
There's a question about whether or not procedurally you have to appeal on order on a first order of rehearing when there's a second order on rehearing coming.
And just to make sure we were protected we filed an appeal of the first order.
So I think what you can look for is the real appeals of the parties will be on the second order for rehearing which we expect to either have a new order or the old order denied by operation of law here this month.
[Operator Instructions] Do we have any other questions? There are no further questions ma'am.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Since we do not have any other questions I'll end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today.
We appreciate your support very much.
Have a great day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Paulsen? Thank you very much Thea [ph].
Good morning everyone.
This is Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations for CenterPoint Energy.
I'd like to welcome you to our third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; And Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will discuss our third quarter 2011 results and will also provide highlights on other key activities.
In addition to Mr.
McClanahan and Mr.
Whitlock we have other members of management with us who may assist in answering questions following their prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q filed earlier today are posted on our website which is www.centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before Mr.
McClanahan begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available until 6:00 p.m.
Central Time through Wednesday November 9 2011.
To access the replay please call 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 14698131.
You can also listen to an online replay of the call through the website that I just mentioned.
We will archive the call on CenterPoint Energy's website for at least 1 year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David McClanahan.
Thank you Marianne.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This past quarter was a very good one for the company.
We had a strong quarter from an earnings standpoint and after 7 years we resolved the long-standing issues associated with our true-up proceeding.
Our press release and 10-Q provide details around our business unit's financial performance this past quarter so I won't repeat the specifics.
But let me summarize the performance of each business unit and talk a little bit about their prospects.
Houston Electric had an outstanding quarter and is having a really good year.
This past summer was the hottest summer on record for Texas.
This drove the largest part of Houston Electric's earnings gains.
I was really pleased at how well our system performed when faced with a stressed that the extreme heat placed on it.
We've also taken the opportunity to invest more in system hardening and reliability which benefits not only this year but the years ahead as well.
The future looks bright for this unit.
While we can't count on repeating the weather-driven earnings we experienced this year we can count on a solid and growing service territory.
We have added more than 35 000 customers since this time last year and believe we'll see a continuation of that pace of growth next year.
Very few areas around the country are experiencing this type of economic activity and growth.
Capital expenditures should approximate between $500 million and $600 million annually as we build infrastructure to serve new loads and automate the grid.
The primary earnings headwind this unit faces comes from the rate changes implemented this past September.
This will have a negative operating income impact of approximately $35 million next year when the effect of the change in depreciation rates is also taken into account.
Our gas distribution unit is having another outstanding year attributable primarily to our business model and expense control.
Annual rate adjustments in a number of our jurisdictions continue to help us recover increased investments as well as reductions in gas usage without the necessity of a major rate proceeding.
This significantly reduces the amount of regulatory lag we would typically experience.
Like most of the industry we are very focused on pipeline safety and integrity.
As a result we are planning to accelerate the replacement of some aging infrastructure and increase our system improvement expenditures.
We expect rate base will grow at a much faster pace as overall capital expenditures are likely to increase to between $300 million and $400 million annually compared to a historical level of about $200 million.
Our midstream businesses are also doing well.
As expected our field services unit demonstrated from infrastructure investments we've made into Haynesville and Fayetteville shale areas.
Our gathering volume increased by almost 5% over the previous quarter and averaged over 2.2 billion cubic feet per day.
About 1 billion cubic feet per day was gathered out of the Haynesville shale.
Gathering volumes from our traditional basins were down about 2% from the previous quarter in line with our expectations.
Next year we expect the volumes out of Haynesville will reach 1.5 billion cubic feet per day by the second quarter.
We expect volumes out of the Fayetteville and Woodford to increase as well.
While a number of producers are shifting their emphasis from leaner shale plays to more liquid-rich plays our principal customers have maintained a consistent level of drilling in these shales.
Natural gas prices however have weakened which could potentially impact our customers' future drilling programs and will impact the value of our retained natural gas volumes as well.
While we continue to see gathering opportunities in the Mid-Continent we are also focused on diversifying and expanding our gathering footprint into more liquids-rich areas like the Eagle Ford Granite Wash and Marcellus.
Our Interstate Pipelines earnings were down from last year primarily due to the exploration of an above-market backhaul contract earlier this year and the impacts of a restructured long-term contract with our natural gas distribution affiliate.
Reduced basis has also resulted in a decline in our off system sales.
However we were able to offset some of this revenue loss with new contracts primarily electric generation customers as well as increases in some ancillary revenues or services I should say.
Going forward we expect considerable competition for new businesses in contract renewals from other pipelines in or near our footprint.
We anticipate basis will remain compressed and all system revenues will be adversely impacted.
However we believe there are continuing opportunities to serve customers on or near our pipeline with special focus on power generation customers.
We currently serve 22 natural gas-fired power plants.
There are over 40 coal plants within 50 miles of our system and we anticipate that retirements in more stringent regulations will lead to increased use of natural gas.
Our Competitive Natural Gas Sales unit's financial results were down this quarter.
Our retail business continues to perform well.
However reduced gas price volatility and the lack of geographic and seasonal basis spreads have reduced wholesale optimization opportunities.
Some of the pipeline in storage capacity we contracted for in the past no longer provide value and in some cases are underwater.
Much of the uneconomic capacity will terminate over the next 18 months.
We are also releasing some of this capacity early and expect to recognize the economic loss in the fourth quarter of this year.
Our focus is on expanding our commercial and industrial base and increasing our product and service offerings.
Now let me turn to our true-up appeal.
As most of you know in September we reached a settlement with the PUC staff and other intervenors resolving all matters in our true-up appeal.
The settlement allows us to recover approximately $1.7 billion out of which we must pay the legal fees associated with this preceding and the financing costs to issue transition bonds to securitize this amount.
Last month the commission approved the settlement and a financing order for the issuance of the bonds.
We expect to issue the bonds later this year or early next year.
Gary will give you a little more color around this process in a few minutes.
As you would expect we are pleased that this issue is finally resolved and we can now look to the future.
The obvious question what will we do with the securitization proceeds? Our first priority is to invest this money in our existing businesses and to acquire similar assets.
We will be disciplined in our approach.
Our portfolio have -- of energy delivery businesses provides us with significant opportunities for investment.
Of course we'll have to be patient and diligent in evaluating these opportunities.
We have talked in the past about reducing outstanding debt and a modest stock buyback program with a portion of the proceeds.
While these alternatives are still viable our first priority will be to invest the money in our businesses.
Let me conclude by expressing how excited and confident we are in the future of CenterPoint Energy.
With the receipt of the true-up proceeds we have a unique opportunity to build a stronger company which will benefit both our shareholders and customers.
Our balanced portfolio of electric and natural gas businesses have served us well since our formation 9 years ago.
We recognize the energy markets are changing.
Lower prices and ample supplies of natural gas will benefit both our electric and gas distribution utilities.
At the same time it will present both challenges and opportunities for our midstream and energy services businesses.
We look forward to building from our strong base and continuing our track record of strong performance for our shareholders.
I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Today I will update you on the expected timeline to issue the new transition bonds the replacement of our revolving credit facilities and our revised earnings guidance.
I'll start with the transition bond.
As David mentioned the Texas PUC issued a financing order on October 27.
We have been working with the PUC staff as well as our financial advisor on various aspects of the issuance and we feel we have made excellent progress.
There are 2 key gaining items in preparing to go to market.
First the credit rating agencies have to establish a rating for the bond.
And second we need to register the sale of the transition bonds with the SEC.
We will issue the bonds as soon as reasonably possible in order to take advantage of historical low interest rates for the benefit of our customers.
We are making solid progress on all aspects of the preparatory work and at this point we anticipate we will be able to market the bonds either late this year or very early in the new year.
In September we had a very successful syndication of our new revolving credit facilities and closed on 3 5-year senior unsecured facilities totaling $2.45 billion.
The economic terms and covenants are in line with other recently syndicated facilities.
The drawing cost under the new facilities are approximately 100 basis points higher than the cost of the previous facility.
We are very pleased that we have locked in our short-term liquidity sources for the next 5 years.
Finally let me discuss our earnings guidance for the year.
As David discussed we are very pleased with the overall financial performance of our businesses this year and this morning we said that we expect 2011 earnings to be at the high-end of our guidance range of $1.04 to $1.14 per fully diluted share.
On a guidance basis which excludes the earnings impact of recording the true-up settlement the change in the value of Time Warner stocks and the related ZENS securities as well as the timing effects of mark-to-market in inventory accounting we earned $0.95 per fully diluted share through the third quarter.
In providing earnings guidance we have assumed normal weather for the balance of the year.
And we have taken into consideration our year-to-date performance as well as various economic operational and regulatory assumptions.
Now I would like to turn the call back to Marianne.
Thank you Gary.
And with that we will now open up the call to questions.
In the interest of time I would ask you to please limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Thea would you please give the instructions on how to ask some questions.
[Operator Instructions]  And we do have a question from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
The first question I had just to David to your comments about the first priority to invest.
I was wondering if maybe you could comment on what you're seeing as far as the M&amp;A market given some of the multiples being paid right now.
And when you say it's similar assets is that -- do you have a preference if you will whether it is increased T&amp;D or going more after sort of the gas infrastructure? The last one first.
We don't have a preference we like our portfolio today.
We're willing to invest in more electric or gas distribution utilities.
But at the same time we like the midstream business and we like to invest there as well.
It's really going to depend on where we have the most opportunities and the ones that will create the most value for us.
We know on the regulated side it's a little bit more difficult to do M&amp;A there but it's not impossible certainly and there are assets that come on market from time to time.
You're right I think the midstream businesses some of the multiples that have been paid lately are pretty rich.
And we're not going to do anything that is not going to create value for us.
So you have to have some real growth potential in those -- for those assets to pay that kind of multiple I would think.
So we have seen some opportunities.
We've looked at them and we continued to look at them.
And we're really getting -- we're going to spend some time in the next 3 to 6 months to really decide where the opportunities are and if there are any real opportunities in one sector or the other.
And maybe just a follow-up on the earnings and the top end of guidance I guess it's kind of an implied $0.18 to $0.19 for the fourth quarter.
And considering Field Services should be continuing to move ahead I didn't know if there was something of specific note maybe that you felt was holding you back.
And here I guess I'm really more referring to perhaps wholesale marketing and so I thought I'd kind of get the feeling in when we entered into 2011 the idea was retail would be 30 to 35 and the wholesale would be break even.
So I'm trying to kind of get a sense of where we may be falling down on that for the year.
You're right Carl.
We did say that and that's what we had intended to do but we have not been able to have our wholesale business break even.
Our retail business as I said is doing just fine.
But we're still having losses in our wholesale business.
We're going to try to get out from under some of the capacity that we're not using today.
We've already posted some of that for release.
We're going to take some losses early in the fourth quarter.
So that's a little bit of headwind there that you noted.
I would also remind you that we do have the rate case.
The full impact of the Houston Electric rate case will be felt in the fourth quarter.
That's probably $10 million give or take impact in the fourth quarter of this year.
And there is a little bit of timing issue around Field Services.
We have these guaranteed throughput agreements.
We booked some commitments in the third quarter because we know that our suppliers are not going to make their full -- or our customers are not going to make their full volume commitment.
So that kind of moves between quarters.
And we probably took a little bit more in the third quarter because they were just not going to make it than we had earlier anticipated.
But overall for the year we're right where we thought we would be.
There's just a little bit of movement between quarters.
[Operator Instructions]  And the next question will come from the Lauren Duke with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the DCRF mechanism that was authorized in Texas and whether you guys plan to file for that rider and if you see potential to kind of ramp up CapEx at the distribution -- on the distribution side with that rider in place? Lauren we do plan to file with it.
It's probably not going to be in '12.
It would probably be in '13 before we file with it.
As you know the commission passed that rule earlier this year.
We can file once a year.
I think it's in April.
The new rates would be implemented in September.
It covers any new distribution investments but some of those investments are offset by any deferred taxes that are associated with them and a few other items.
But we do see value in it.
It's not quite as good as we want it but I think we do see value.
We plan to use it; it would probably be 2013 before we have our first filing.
Research Division</strong> And then just one other if I might.
Can you comment on -- I know you’ve talked about some of the gathering RFPs that are going on that you guys are participating in and just potential timing to hear about some of those and whether that's something that we should still expect at this year or we're looking more towards next year? We’ve had a number of lines in the water so to speak.
We've been looking at a lot of different assets that come on the market.
The RFPs that we referred to earlier those have been delayed.
In particular the one that we were most interested in was in the Eagle Ford area.
That one has been delayed into next year.
We had expected that would be this year.
And then there are a few items -- a few that we expect to happen in other liquid-rich plays that just haven't come about yet.
So I would say that the RFP process that we've discussed in the past has really been shoved out into next year.
The next question will come from Yves Siegel with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> If I could could you elaborate once again on the opportunities that you're looking at in terms of midstream? Would you change the balance of the mix between regulated and nonregulated if the opportunities set and the return profiles are more attractive in the midstream? You know today our midstream business -- and let me speak specifically about Field Services.
It represents probably less than 20% -- between 15% to 20% maybe 17%.
And I think we would see that percentage increasing but there is a given I think level that we can go to before we start impacting our credit risk profile and we're sensitive to that with the utilities we have in our portfolio.
So yes I think we can increase the size of midstream relative to the rest of our portfolio but I think we have to be cautious that we can't go too far.
But I think there's ample room in it today to increase it.
And really that's where we see a lot of the potential growth opportunities so we are very interested in looking at that.
Research Division</strong> And then so -- and I hate to keep coming back to this.
But given those comments given the amount of cash that you'll have how does that sort of calibrate with the notion of perhaps doing an MLP or not doing and MLP? We have said that we would do an MLP or consider it in the -- if we get some -- either a large acquisition or a significant amount of growth which we need to fund.
And I think that's still our position.
Today we do -- we are going to have an ample amount of proceeds to invest.
Having said that I think the MLP has to be still part of our toolkit.
If in fact we find something bigger that we want to buy or if we get into a situation where we are having a lot of more rapid growth than we are today then I think we would look to the MLP if that's the case.
Research Division</strong> Well it'd be a good problem to have.
Yes it would be.
I agree with you wholeheartedly.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to go over the limit so I apologize but any thoughts in terms of how you may approach the regulatory environment given Houston Electric and the hit that you're taking there? Could you see a filing coming up soon? We're going to have a good solid year this year as you would expect but we're going to have -- because of the weather.
But we're going to have a good solid year even when you weather adjust.
As I look to next year I think next year is going to -- we're going to be -- have a good solid year.
We're going to -- I think we'd have a good opportunity to earn our regulated rates of return on a normalized weather basis.
So I don't think there's any near-term rate case.
And if we can grow this business customer growth is looking pretty good then maybe we can delay our rate case into the 2013 2014 timeframe.
But at this stage we think next year is going to be pretty solid so there's certainly not going to be anything on the table next year.
Our next question will come from Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> On the -- once you receive the proceeds and book this gain on the true-up does this pretty much reset your debt to total cap ratio kind of in a more normalized range with other utilities? Or are you still -- do you still have room to go on the debt to cap area? I looked at some figures on that and I think we're going to be pretty close to 40% equity once -- when all is said and done.
So that is I think within striking distance of our peers.
We'd probably like to have a little bit more equity in our capitalization but not much.
Gary you may want to add to that.
No.
I think that's right David.
And also if you look over the long-term we do have some debit holding company that we've made headway.
And over the long-term you'll see -- I think we will not refinance as the holding company and refinancings will be -- our financing in the future would be at the regulated utilities.
So I think 60-40 is -- this is a significant move and recognized by the credit rating agencies.
And as David said I think it now gives us the flexibility with the cash coming in a good strong balance sheet and the opportunity to be very disciplined and thoughtful to execute our growth plan going forward.
Research Division</strong> And following the approval by the PUCT for this transition bond offering is there anything else outstanding or is this pretty much it this $1.695 billion? This is it.
Research Division</strong> And then also on the diluted shares outstanding.
It seems like the drip is still on is that right? Because the -- I think diluted shares continue to ramp up a little bit? There maybe -- just a little bit but no the drip is not on.
Savings plan and drip are no longer on Faisel.
There probably is some on benefit plans and there's some old options that are outstanding that get exercised from time to time.
But there's not anything -- shouldn't be anything big there I would say.
Research Division</strong> Last question for me.
On the midstream side.
The 260 Bcf of throughput in the quarter can you give us an idea or break that down by new projects versus your legacy portfolio? What would you do have going on in into Haynesville obviously versus what you have from your pure legacy midstream portfolio? We have -- let's see if we have that broken out easily here.
We were averaging 1 Bcf a day in Haynesville for the quarter.
And we had a little -- plus or minus about 800 million a day in our traditional basins and about I think 350 or so in the Fayetteville Woodford areas.
Those are round numbers and I haven't gone to calculating all that stuff out.
That's a per day the 206 is total volumes.
I would say that the -- let me see something here.
Those are the relative contributions from each of the areas.
We just have to do the math to make sure that all adds up to approximately 206 for the quarter.
Research Division</strong> And the 800 a day on the legacy portfolio is that still declining in kind of a mid to high single-digit range? It declined about 2% from the second quarter.
It's leveled off.
It obviously is still declining a little bit.
There's still some rigs working not a lot.
And once you -- you don't have -- the first year or year after you quit drilling is the biggest decline.
So we're not having the types of steep declines that we saw in 2009 and 2010.
But they're still declining just because they're being depleted.
Our next question is from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Most of my strategic questions have been answered but I do have one bookkeeping question.
The equity component of the true-up I guess will be recognized over the life of the securitization bonds.
I just want to verify from what you said in the past.
You're going to -- will you be considering that ongoing earnings and about how many years would you expect that bond to last? Andrew yes we would consider that ongoing earnings.
And I would expect that the high end would be 14 years.
We'll have to look at the traunching there may be some 5s 10s and a bit longer.
So we'll have a lot of clarity for that -- on that obviously when we sell those bonds and we can give you sort of the exact numbers then.
But the math is exactly -- it will be amortized over the life of those -- the average life of those bonds.
The next question will come from Steve Fleishman with BOA.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about the use of proceeds in the environment we're in.
Obviously in -- particularly in your gas businesses there's been a lot of -- it's been a pretty attractive market environment and stocks currencies have all done well.
So I'm just -- it sounds like you're going to be pretty patient with the use of proceeds and I'm just wondering do you think you really tend to be so patient in this environment? And also do you sense any opportunities that from a competitive standpoint to make sure that you've got -- make sure you've got competitive opportunities to -- particularly on the GNP side where it's been tough to get new projects? We would rather as you would expect Steve build rather than buy.
Organic growth and building new systems are much more attractive than buying especially at today's multiples.
But I think there are some potential opportunities out there we continue to look at.
I think -- we're not going to let this money say got to go do something right today.
I think we are going to be patient.
I think that is the message but we are going to be very active diligent.
We're going to decide is there something here over the next 3 to 6 months? Now it may take longer to execute it but we have to decide how long do we want to hold the money to try to invest it as opposed to looking at some of the alternatives.
But I'd say by midyear next year we ought to have a pretty good idea and hopefully we'll be able to spend some of this money before then.
You might have picked up in my comments we do think our CapEx and our -- both our Gas Distribution as well as our Electric Utility is going to pick up from this year.
So we'll spend a little bit more in those areas but obviously we're not going to spend all our money in just that area.
So we're going to have to find some new investments but we're not going to do anything that doesn't create value for our shareholders.
If it's not a good deal we're not going to spend the money just to spend it.
Research Division</strong> And can you just remind us kind of the framework you look at when you're looking at investment or acquisition opportunities? Kind of how you look at accretion dilution returns? What kind of framework you're using? We have hurdle rates for each one of our businesses.
And clearly the investment has to meet the hurdle rate over the long term.
And I would say that we're not looking to have very much dilution at all.
I guess there could be a little bit in the first year but we're not looking in any long-term dilutive type transactions.
Our next question is from Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I jumped on a little late on the call so I apologize if you're going to repeat this.
But could you just remind us again so the use of proceeds how much has been earmarked for say CapEx or internal growth versus debt or equity reduction? Could you quantify that? We didn't Ali.
What we have said is our first priority is to invest the money.
That's our number 1 priority.
We have some debt maturing in a little over a year in 2013.
And obviously some of that debt we could actually buy in today at par.
But we're not going to use the money in that -- for those purposes until we have really scrubbed our investment opportunities and then we'll decide if we should take out some debt or buy back some stock.
But at this stage our number 1 priority is to invest in all our business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And related to that David I mean obviously Field Services will have a very strong year this year as expected.
When you look at the base that you're creating in 2011 and your projects moving forward what kind of growth rate should we be expecting for that business in -- over the next few years? I think we'll still have growth from just our existing contracts in the Haynesville Fayetteville and Woodford.
They're going to continue to go up to their contracted capacity.
Today they're not there.
They're about 2/3 of it especially in the Haynesville.
So I think though that our expectations around expansions where we thought they would actually expand from 1.5 to maybe up to 2.9 Bcf in the Haynesville over the next 5 years I think we've tempered some of our expectations there.
And while -- we don't think that's going to happen in the next couple of years.
It may ultimately happen and we hope it does but we had expected that might happen in late '12 or '13 and I think we're pushing that out a little bit.
Now we still talk to our customers routinely and we just have to read the tea leaves a little bit when we do that.
But expansions are probably pushed out a little bit.
So we're going to make sure we capture all the growth of our existing contracts and there's some additional I think expansions small ones that we'll see in that light.
But our real goal is to try to go with some of these customers to some other areas.
We like to diversify our footprint.
We're pretty much Mid-Continent based today and we would like to diversify that base zone.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the last question David.
Again I thought I heard you correctly but just to be clear.
Did I hear you that you're saying that when you look at your existing portfolio and the net on CapEx that you're not contemplating an MLP structure for the pipeline field services but if a big growth opportunity comes up you would contemplate it at that point.
Did I hear that right? You did.
With the level of proceeds we're going to get we don't see really any need right now to go out and do an MLP.
Having said that if we get into a very high growth area or have a big opportunity we would certainly consider it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Because one of the exercises you were going through was not as a source of capital but as a valuation enhancement exercise.
That was complete and you did not reach the conclusion that that will be a valuation enhancement in setting up an MLP? I would say that the results are mixed.
I think there are definitely examples that you can find where an MLP appears to enhance the value of the sponsoring -- the C corp behind it.
And at the same time there are those examples where it doesn't appear to have value.
So I don't think that's going to drive our determination if we use an MLP or not.
But I think a good solid financing source for a growth business I think is something we would -- is the reason we would consider it.
The next question will come from Jim Krapfel with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> In light of the expected securitization proceeds how does that change your thinking in regards to the 2012 dividend payout level if at all? We haven't considered that yet Jim.
But I would think that -- we look at continuing earnings and cash flow and I think we need to make sure we see where we are going to invest this money and the level of earnings we're going to get before it really influences our dividend decision.
I think our dividend decision next year is going to be based on our current businesses plus what we've done up to that point in time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So maybe your early indication on your list you added about -- I think it was $0.01 onto your dividend and some -- is that something really like in the ballpark we're looking at in 2012 or maybe a little bit higher? We're really aren’t ready to discuss that at this time.
We generally look at the dividend level in the first quarter of the new year and that's what we'll do this coming year.
The next question will come from David Frank with Catapult Capital.
David I know there's a lot of talk about potential uses of the cash.
I guess as management and you're – I don’t want to say you're in the later part of your seniority there but you know -- but you're sitting there with $5 you're going to be -- have almost $5 per share of cash on there.
How important it is for you guys to see that this cash is spent you grow the business and you kind of ride out into the sunset or -- how open would you guys be to actually selling the company? David I think you know the answer to that.
We're not looking to sell our company.
But we are absolutely focused every day on how do we create more value for our shareholders and we think we have a unique opportunity with the proceeds we're getting.
So I'm not sure we're going to ride off into the sunset before we get it all spent but we're going to get it invested and used long before we get out of here.
You have a follow-up question from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
Just 2 quick ones.
The first is with respect to the third quarter earnings on the electric side it sort of looks back in the envelope that the weather impact down here was call it to be $35 million $40 million of EBIT.
I know sometimes it's difficult to tease apart but is that roughly what you guys are seeing or...
Yes.
We think that weather and usage was about $35 million $36 million.
And we're pretty sure that at least $25 million to $26 million is weather and probably a little bit more.
We had a drought together with this extreme heat and I'm not sure our weather models captured all the impacts of weather.
But of the $36 million we're pretty sure that $25 million $26 million is weather driven.
And just a second question you sort of touched on a comment with respect to perhaps reviewing the dividend in the normal time in January but as we think about use of proceeds fairly large sum of money and just kind of given the market today and kind of how they're rewarding sort of yield growing companies in 2011 we saw a dividend bump of around 1%.
Is there any change in the thought of the framework of using some of that cash earmarking some of that cash for potential dividend bumps rather than say for instance share buyback? Not at this time Carl.
We have a guide that we use.
50% to 75% of ongoing earnings we pay out in dividends.
We're at the top-end of that range.
We need to grow earnings to grow dividends.
But I don't expect that we'll take this money and make any kind of special dividends.
What we want to do is invest it drive our earnings and then drive dividends and that's our goal.
There are no further questions at this time.
Thank you very much.
Since we do not have any further questions I'm going to end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today.
We appreciate your support very much.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter And Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Paulsen? Thank you very much Thea.
Good morning everyone.
This is Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations for CenterPoint Energy.
I'd like to welcome you to our fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2011 results and we'll also provide highlights on other key activities.
In addition to David and Gary we have other members of management with us who may assist in answering questions following their prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-K filed earlier today are posted on our website which is www.centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
This quarter we have created supplemental materials which are also posted under the Investors section of our website.
These materials are for informational purposes and we will not be referring to them during prepared remarks.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available until 6:00 p.m.
Central Time through Wednesday March 7 2012.
To access the replay please call 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 01632104.
You can also listen to an online replay of the call through the website that I just mentioned.
We will archive the call on CenterPoint Energy's website for at least 1 year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David.
Thank you Marianne.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
2011 was a very good year for the company 4 of our 5 business units had strong years both operationally and financially.
We resolved the long standing issues associated with our 2004 true-up proceeding.
And last month we covered almost $1.7 billion of additional true-up cost through the issuance of securitization bonds.
We're pleased this matter is finally behind us and we can now focus our full attention on the future.
This morning we reported full year earnings of $1.36 billion or $3.17 per diluted share.
Excluding the impacts of the true-up proceeding net income would have been $546 million or $1.27 per diluted share compared to $442 million or $1.7 per diluted share in 2010.
So this was an outstanding year either way you look at it.
Our fourth quarter results were also solid.
Net income was $117 million or $0.27 per diluted share compared to $124 million or $0.29 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Fourth quarter earnings for 2011 on the same basis as we provide earnings guidance would have been $0.26 per diluted share.
This was above our expectations due principally to a lower effective tax rate associated with state income taxes.
Our press release and 10-K provide the details around our financial results this past year.
So I won't repeat the specifics.
I will however summarize the performance of each unit and describe their prospects for 2012 and beyond.
Houston Electric had its best year financially.
Core operating income was $496 million compared to $427 million in 2010.
Fourth quarter income was $62 million up $6 million from 2010.
Last summer's record heat was the biggest driver of Houston Electric's increased income.
In addition we saw  strong growth in Houston with over 45 000 new customers added last year.
Our gas LDCs also had a good year.
Operating income for the full year was $226 million or about $5 million below the record level of 2010.
Fourth quarter income was $73 million compared to $86 million in 2010.
While margin growth was modest last year we were successful in our expense management efforts.
As a result on an overall basis we earned at or near our authorized rate of return for the second consecutive year.
Our Interstate Pipelines achieved operating income of $248 million last year down from the $270 million in 2010.
Income in the fourth quarter was $52 million compared to $63 million in the previous year.
The decline in earnings for the full year and fourth quarter were almost completely attributable to the exploration of a backhaul contract on our Carthage to Perryville line.
Our Field Services unit had a very strong year.
As a result of the investments we've made to gather and treat gas in several developing shale plays.
Full year operating income was $189 million compared to $151 million the previous year.
Fourth quarter earnings were $53 million compared to $57 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
It is worth noting that operating income for 2010 reflected a gain of $21 million from the sale of some nonstrategic assets.
Excluding that onetime gain last year's fourth quarter earnings were up over 45% from 2010.
Our Competitive Gas Sales and Services business continued to struggle in 2011.
Full year earnings were $6 million compared to $16 million in 2010.
Fourth quarter earnings were $3 million compared to no operating income in the previous year.
For the past 2 years this unit has been burdened with uneconomic pipeline capacity contracts.
However we were able to accelerate the termination of some of those contracts last year and most of the remaining uneconomic contracts will expire over the next 12 months.
Now let me turn to the future and give you some insight into each business units' prospects.
Year in year out Houston Electric has been able to earn its regulated rate of return since we formed CenterPoint Energy in 2002.
I expect that it will perform well this year.
It has a solid and growing service territory.
The Houston metropolitan area was the first area in the nation to replace the jobs lost during the economic downturn and more than 80 000 jobs are expected to be created this year.
We estimate that customer growth will equal or exceed the growth we experienced last year which should add approximately $25 million in base revenues.
However Houston Electric is unlikely to equal its 2011 financial performance which I -- as I indicated earlier was driven by record heat.
This unusual weather added approximately $60 million to base revenues last year.
In addition the negative impact of the rates implemented in September of last year will be experienced for the full year in 2012.
We expect this to be approximately -- estimate this to be approximately $35 million.
Over the longer term Houston Electric should experience significant rate base growth.
Annual capital expenditures are forecast to average between $500 million and $550 million over the next 5 years resulting in annual rate base growth of over 4%.
Because of the recently approved distribution cost recovery factor together with the long-standing transmission cost recovery mechanism we don't anticipate the need for a major Houston Electric rate case for the next several years.
We anticipate rate-based growth at our gas LDCs as well.
Over the next 5 years capital expenditures are expected to exceed $350 million a year compared to an historical run rate of about $200 million a year.
These  increased expenditures are primarily related to new pipeline integrity and safety requirements and will result in an annual rate base growth of over 6%.
Although we have rate adjustment mechanisms in most jurisdictions we will likely need to file a number of rate cases over the next 12 to 18 months.
While the current low natural gas prices are positive for both Houston Electric and our gas LDCs they can negatively affect our Midstream business.
This is particularly true for our Field Services unit.
As we've indicated in the past we retained over 1.5% of all gas we gather.
While the majority of our revenue stream is fee based we do earn revenues from the sale of this retained gas.
We estimate that each $1 change in natural gas prices will have about a $20 million impact on operating income this year.
In addition as gas prices have fallen rig activity in dry gas basins has also declined.
This is most significant in our traditional gathering area where we've seen some gathering volumes decline over 10% since 2010.
Increasing gathering volumes in the shale plays  however have more than offset this decline.
Overall gathering volumes increased almost 30% last year and by year end we were gathering about 2.6 billion cubic feet per day.
We expect total gathering volumes under our current contracts will increase about 15% to 20% this year.
Low natural gas prices in compressed basis differentials are also expected to impact our Interstate Pipelines.
It is unlikely any significant new pipelines will be needed in the near term in our current Mid-Continent footprint and there will be increased competition for new and existing customers.
In addition the exploration of a backhaul agreement last year will reduce operating income by approximately $10 million this year.
However we believe there are continuing opportunities to serve customers on or near our pipelines particularly power generation customers.
Over the last few years our Energy Services business has suffered like many others in the industry.
As I indicated earlier the principal drag on earnings has been related to uneconomic pipeline capacity agreements.
We've taken actions to reduce our exposure to such agreements by an estimated $15 million this year.
Our retail business continues to do well and we expect 2012 will be a year of significant improvement for this business.
Of course we also expect to realize earnings benefits from the $1.7 billion of additional true-up costs we recovered last month.
Earlier this year we called or tendered for our $375 million of debt at the parent company.
Gary will provide the details and earnings impact from this debt reduction in a few minutes.
As we indicated in our third quarter earnings call we expect to invest the remaining proceeds in our existing businesses and to acquire similar assets.
While we are not in a position to make any announcements today I feel confident we will be successful in deploying a portion of these proceeds to expand our present businesses and we are currently evaluating several possibilities particularly in the Field Services sector.
As I indicated earlier we will also be required to make significant new capital investments in our existing regulated businesses to satisfy both growth and regulatory requirements.
I'd like to remind you of the $20.25 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on January 19.
This marks the 7th consecutive year that we have raised our dividend.
We believe our dividend actions continues to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence the Board of Directors has in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Let me conclude by expressing my gratitude to our employees through whose hard work we achieved not only an outstanding 2011 but excellent operating and financial performance since our inception in 2002.
As many of you know we face some significant challenges in our early years.
But I think we are stronger today because of our success in overcoming them and I'm convinced our future is even brighter.
We have terrific employees well-positioned assets and business units and a balanced and diversified portfolio which can excel under a variety of market conditions.
Thank you again for your interest in the company.
I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Today I would like to discuss a few items with you.
First since the formation of our company in October of 2002 we have significantly improved our balance sheet.
As you know subsequent to the favorable resolution of the true-up case last year the rating agencies have taken positive actions to upgrade the long-term ratings of the debt of CenterPoint Energy CE and CERC.
Each company now has  solid investment grade credit ratings and the ratings outlook for each company is either stable or positive.
In addition our business has generated solid cash flows and when combined with the benefits of bonus depreciation essentially funded our capital program and dividend in 2011.
We ended 2011 with net debt of approximately $6.7 billion and a debt to total capitalization ratio of 61.2%.
In January of this year we closed on the sale of approximately $1.7 billion in transition bonds with an effective annual weighted average interest rate of approximately 2.5%.
We were very pleased with this offering which resulted in one of the lowest rates of any utility securitization.
The company received proceeds of approximately $1.7 billion from the offering.
Our solid balance sheet cash on hand internally generated cash and other liquidity provide the company with the financial flexibility to effectively execute our business plan.
I know you are all interested in how we are currently using the cash we received from the sale of the transition bond.
First we used a portion of the cash to payoff outstanding commercial paper.
In addition as we continue to evaluate a number of opportunities to invest the cash in long-term accretive projects we made the decision to reacquire cash exempt debt at the parent company having an aggregate principal amount of $375 million with a weighted average interest rate of 5.4%.
As this clearly enhances earnings and cash flow relative to the alternative of maintaining cash and money market fund earning approximately 20 basis points.
The result will be a reduction in Interest Expense in 2012 of approximately $18 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
This action supports our long-standing objective of deleveraging the parent company.
As David pointed out we have a significant capital plan for 2012.
We estimate our 2012 capital expenditures to be approximately $1.3 billion an increase of approximately $100 million from 2011.
About 86% or a little more than $1.1 billion of CapEx will be spent  by our regulated businesses this year compared to 78% in 2011.
Let me give you a breakdown by business.
In our Electric business we expect to spend $575 million an increase of $37 million or 7% from 2011.
CapEx will be used primarily to support our investments in infrastructure to serve new load and enhance reliability.
We expect to spend $354 million in our natural gas distribution business reflecting a 20% increase or $59 million from 2011.
This increased level of spending will be used primarily for infrastructure related to pipeline safety and integrity.
Our pipeline capital budget is $181 million which is significantly more than our 2011 spend of $98 million.
This increase will be used primarily for routine maintenance major line replacements related to pipeline safety and integrity as well as spending associated with meeting anticipated new regulatory requirement.
For the completion of our Magnolia and Olympia systems our 2012 capital budget for Field Services is $139 million.
However this estimate does not include any new capital which may be required if we were to have significant new opportunities.
To the extent we need financing in connection with future growth opportunity we expect we can finance them at attractive interest rates at the operating company level.
However we are often asked about our financing strategy for our Midstream business especially whether or not we are considering the formation of an MLP.
We continue to think the formation of an MLP can be an efficient structure to finance significant new growth and thus remains a viable option for our company as we evaluate various Midstream projects.
Now let me turn to my final topic our 2012 earnings guidance.
This morning in our earnings release we announced 2012 earnings guidance in the range of $1.8 to $1.20 per diluted share.
This is a  somewhat broader guidance range this  somewhat broader guidance range takes into consideration a number of economic and operational variables that may impact our actual earnings performance.
Although the strength of the U.S.
economy in general and the Texas economy in particular can have a significant impact to earnings.
The most important variables are commodity prices volume throughput weather regulatory proceedings and our effective tax rate.
We have developed our guidance range by using combinations of these variables.
We have also taken into account the benefit of the $375 million debt reduction at the parent and we are using an average share count of approximately 430 million shares.
In addition we have not assumed any additional use of the remaining true-up proceed in developing this range.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
Now I'd like to turn the call back to Marianne.
Thank you Gary.
And with that we will now open  the call to questions.
In the interest of time I would ask you to please limit yourself to 1 question and a follow-up.
Thea would you please give the instructions on how to ask a question.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from David Frank with Catapult.
Gary you kind of mentioned there at the end that some of the factors that drive the earnings within the range you've given for '12 include commodity prices and Midstream volumes.
Can you give us a sense of how much of the range is dictated by commodities? And could you give us a sense of maybe the range in gas prices that you have embedded in that range? David let me take a shot at that.
We've tested against a series of our range of natural gas prices anywhere from $2.50 at the low end up to a little less than $4 at the high-end.
Obviously the gas prices have been coming down since we started putting together our plans last fall.
And our current thinking is that the gas prices are going to be covering at the low end of that range.
But we clearly looked at those and tested those and we also looked at natural gas liquids prices as well.
We're not as sensitive but we have some processing on both our pipes and our Field Services business and we tested liquidity -- liquids prices as well.
Great.
And David you made a comment that you're interested it sounded like you're interested in making complementary asset acquisitions in the Midstream area.
Can we infer that corporate acquisition or M&amp;A has been off the table? I don't think you should draw that conclusion David.
I think clearly there's -- it's -- some asset acquisition are perhaps easier to do and there is more opportunities there but we continue to look at on all fronts.
So I don't want you to draw that.
But I will say that the most active opportunities we're looking at are in this Field Services sector.
Our next question will come from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Actually maybe just leveraging off of David's Question there and I just wanted to be clear when you were just sort of answering that as well as the opportunities that you're seeing in Field Services and Midstream.
Are you talking about actual Field Services Midstream M&amp;A or are you talking more about the organic like the Mississippi-line proposal or I guess is it a combination? Carl it really is a combination.
We have opportunities on all fronts.
We have a number of proposals out to producers.
But we're also looking at some assets that we might purchase outright from either existing gatherers or producers.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just staying  on Field Services can you help us give a breakdown between sort of the -- in the fourth quarter which looks like there was a very good throughput in Midstream.
What was traditional? What was shale? And if you had any color for maybe how that's changed here in the first quarter if it's changed? Yes.
Let me kind of give you a December kind of look for a minute or maybe  fourth quarter.
But we were gathering in total about $2.6 billion at the end of last year.
I would say out of our traditional basins that's more like 750 to 775 something of that nature.
We've seen that the traditional basins declined in the fourth quarter more than it did in any other time during the year.
As you might recall the first 3 quarters were pretty flat but we saw a decline in the fourth quarter.
I'm not sure that's going to be sustainable but there's not a lot of rig activity in those dry gas basins at these gas prices.
So year-to-year in our traditional basins we saw about a 10% maybe a little bit more drop in traditional basins gathering.
Of course offsetting all that is the Haynesville gathering we're doing in Magnolia and Olympia.
Fayetteville gathering continues to increase.
We've got some wet gas in our traditional basins and that's kind of helping us too because there are -- there is some drilling in these basins that -- where there's wet gas.
So it turns out we had an excellent year from a gathering standpoint ending at $2.6 billion a day which was up I don't know 25% up 30% from 2010.
You have to attribute that to all of this I mean substantial shale plays and the new investments we made.
Sure and I appreciate that.
And then with respect to first quarter and I guess maybe just to narrow the question have you seen any roll over or decline in the Haynesville I guess specifically? I think the way we would answer that is if it appears to us that the producers  are maintaining their production levels from what we saw at the end of last year and they've got enough rig activity to continue to do that.
And I think that's kind of our expectation for a while until we see exactly where  natural gas prices  -- or they see where natural gas prices are going to go.
But our producers are telling us they're going to try to maintain their volumes but they're not talking about any substantial increase in volumes at this stage.
Fair enough very much appreciate that.
Maybe last question if I could.
Just because on the marketing it sort of alluded to 2012 maybe being a significant improvement.
And I didn't know if maybe you could parse that into what your expectations are between retail and wholesale? We've been saying for some time that if you just take our retail business alone we think it ought to produce $30 million to $35 million worth of operating income.
But because of some  uneconomic contracts we haven't been able to achieve that.
These contracts are starting to roll off.
Certainly we can see $15 million worth of improvement in 2012 around those contracts rolling off versus what we incurred in 2011.
And who knows what's going to happen with some of the other ones maybe things will improve a little bit.
So we see improvement and we think we'll get it all revealed in 2012.
No it will probably be 2013 before all these contracts have rolled off and we can start really focusing everybody on our retail business and what it will produce.
But we still feel good about the retail business but as you know these bases collapsed and storage spreads have gone down and where we're making a fair amount of money 3 or 4 years ago we're not we're losing money there.
Our next question will come from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to come back to the '12 guidance David or Gary for that matter.
If I heard you correctly so Houston Electric you are assuming a down year given the trends you mentioned? But can you give a sense of what the other segments should -- I think pipelines had some headwinds.
You mentioned resources had headwinds as well.
Should we assume them to be flat to down as well just given those trends? And also the tax rate that you alluded to can you remind us the -- what effective tax rate we should assume for '12? Go ahead Gary.
On the tax rate maybe  let me describe it like this if you have a normal blend of our federal rate and our state rate or state tax rates you should have about 37.5%.
This year we came in about 34.4% there's really kind of 2 issues in the lower state blended tax rate in terms of the allocation of those sort apportioned  factors for the income.
And then we had the resolution of the normalization issues.
So we picked up some benefits this year.
Going forward I gave you a range of 34.5% to 37.5% and the reason for that is again I think we have to look at these apportionment  factors and see how that plays out in terms of the state tax blended rate.
And then we continue to look on a -- look at a number of tax reserves that we have related to various outstanding issues with our -- so I'd like to give you a midpoint of that but I'm going to say we do have a range of 34.5% to 37.5% on our tax rate.
And of course like any company we're working diligently to  have that as low as possible.
But I think we have to sort of stay with the range on that at the moment.
And as to your other questions first just on Houston Electric.
Because of the hot weather in 2011 it's going to be hard to repeat that.
I will tell you that current weather forecasts are suggesting it's going to be hot and dry again.
So it's not out of the question.
But our model suggests we got almost $60 million from normal weather at -- in 2011.
So we'll just have to wait to see what happens there.
Our growth in customers should add at least $25 million.
We've got transmission revenues of another $10 million that should benefit 2012.
And we've -- we saw some customer actual usage growth in 2011.
We're not sure whether that was real usage or whether it was weather.
It was so hot it was hard to distinguish yet.
So it could be a little upside there as well.
And then we have the full year of the rate case which might kind of offset some of the things I've talked about.
So we think we are going to have a good year.
We think we can earn our regulator rate of return next year.
But unless we get this hot weather we probably won't set the same kind of records we did in 2011.
I would also say pipelines it does have a little bit of headwind there because we have that -- the tail end of that backhaul agreement that we didn't feel in the first 4 5 months of last year we're going to feel it this year and we estimate that's about a $10 million impact.
As you might -- I'm sure you know there's lots of pipes in the Midcontinent area that are going to be  competing with us as we -- as contracts roll off.
And we tend to believe that that could put a little pressure on rates.
But having said that each year we've been able to overcome a lot of these things.
So I'm not ready to say that pipeline is not going to have a good year.
But they have a little  headwind in front of them  that's for sure.
Our Field Services it really depends on gas prices.
I think that they should have a good year whether -- it's not going to be the 30% to 40% increase we saw in 2011 no.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And one other question if I could.
On the usual proceeds in the past I think you've also alluded to the fact that after Field Services there may be interest in electric utility acquisitions.
Just from your comments should I -- should we infer that you're not seeing any good opportunities in that area and that the focus is really Field Services? And to the extent that's the case just conceptually what kind of return are you targeting or we should be thinking about in terms of thinking about the earnings potential of that cash could give to CenterPoint? First I think David after that first question I think we don't see a lot of properties on the market.
There are some I think gas LDCs that may be coming on the market and we'll clearly take a look and see if we have any interest there.
But on the Field Services side we look at a range from the low-teens to the mid-teens on unleveraged basis.
And it really depends on the contract terms and how much if we get throughput guarantees or guaranteed rate of returns.
If we do it will be on the lower end of that if we don't it would be -- it'd be 14% 15% probably.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On a pretax or after-tax? That's after-tax unlevered.
Our next question will come from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> David on the Pipeline segment I'm trying to figure out what the opportunity is on the power generation side? So we've seen I guess the headwind from backhaul contracts and restructuring of contracts but what kind of opportunity do you guys have kind in your kind of territory to sign up more power generators to firm capacity? I think -- Greg you might want to weigh in on this as well.
But what we see is we have 20 or 30 coal power plants near our pipe or within reach of our pipe and some of those will be converted.
But let me get Greg to give you a little bit more color around that.
On the power generation side we're currently connected with about 800 million a day of load contracted on power generation.
With those existing customers we've looked to kind of high-grade their services.
We put together a new tariff last year that provides kind of shaping to meet their  low-profile which is different than a gas-based profile and  we've been able to do that and do it successfully last year kind of on a limited basis but I think we'll be able to do more of  that.
As David mentioned there's  several coal generation facilities.
There's also -- around our footprint plus other utilities just talking about new gas generation around our footprint in Midcontinent.
So we'll be chasing those the competition form but I'd say it's under 1 000 to 2 000 megawatts around our footprint that we can go after.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And then on the T&amp;D side electric T&amp;D side see he --  looking at the year-over-year sort of O&amp;M fleet kind of 9% in the quarter and then 8% year-over-year.
Can you guys discuss what's driving that? It seems to be kind of more than inflation.
There's some cats and dogs there but let me see if I can give you any sense of  that.
Labor and benefits were a fair amount of it $8 million $9 million on that front.
A big part of that was pension expense.
We started reflecting the true pension expense in earnings once we implemented this rate case.
Remember we were deferring those before.
So part of it is pension.
We spent a fair amount of money last year because of the drought.
We had to do a lot of insulator washing and stuff like that.
And  we spent a fair money -- a fair amount of incremental money around taking trees out because we had a lot of dead trees and we're really after our tree trimming budgets.
So those just kind of added to what look like some unusual O&amp;M expenditures but we did that because we had the revenues to spend it.
And we felt it was a good investment especially as we went into 2012 and 2013 especially if we have any bad weather come through here.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And last question for me.
And you mentioned in your -- into your remarks that you have exposure to some of the liquids gas plays.
Is there any way for you to quantify what percentage of your overall gathering volumes are exposed to kind of liquids plays or liquids-associated plays? Faisel it's a fairly small percent.
Greg is thinking it's in the 5% to 10% range.
But we really haven't done that calculation.
[Operator Instructions] And the next question will come from Yves Siegel with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> If I could could you elaborate perhaps Gary on the -- on your comment on potentially doing MLP? What kind of factors would you be factoring in to -- on that decision? Well I think the key one I think the hurdle we're over is that the MLPs certainly could be a viable vehicle financing vehicle for us.
So Yves I think the real key is that we have visibility on the long-term growth opportunities in a midstream area.
I think that's the real key -- is that we can see that there is significant growth in front of us and that's a vehicle for them to use and the ability to use it to finance continued growth.
I think that's the key one.
Research Division</strong> And as you said today how do you view that long-term growth? Is it contingent  primarily on doing an acquisition or do you think you have the footprint that would allow you to grow at this juncture? Yes I don't think there's any one answer to that.
Look certainly -- I think if you look historically we've been able to originate a lot of business.
Greg and his team are working very diligently to continue to originate new business.
So I don't want you to say that it's going to be money bent that we have a large acquisition.
I think if we can see continued growth in our organic growth it's certainly  maybe some acquisition opportunities that there are assets that are complementary to our business.
So I don't think there's any one thing I think it's really again visibility around the growth Yves.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And if I could just last 2 questions is when you have these proposals that are out there and if you win them or lose them what do you think is a major factor that would cause -- allow you to win it or perhaps lose it? Greg you probably can speak to that.
Yves I think we've said before on some of our other calls and at some of our conferences we've been at that a lot of the producers had a leg lease in this past year we saw -- do things  themselves.
So we're actually bidding in to their projects design stuff for them and then they elected to go ahead and do it themselves.
And we actually had 2 major deals go that way.
But we're also starting to see some producers wanting to give back some gathering systems and sell it.
So those are going to be some opportunities in our near future we think.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
Gary do you have any sense of what the impact of a bonus depreciation could be in 2012 or what deferred taxes might look like in 2012? As you know bonus depreciation in 2012 is 50%.
I'll give you a couple of numbers.
Last year 2011 we estimated we'd probably have about a $435 million benefit.
I think 2012 we're probably thinking less than $300 million I think about $275 million.
So it still will be a benefit from a cash perspective this year.
Our next question will be a follow up question from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
This is I guess a question for Gary.
I just wanted to make sure I've got all sort of the moving parts right and it's a little bit more perhaps micro on the stranded cost recovery.
We do have sort of both earnings and cash flow impacts there was the I guess the statement in the press release of the roughly $250 million over the -- of future gains to be coming over the life of the bond.
Should we basically just take that as kind of that number divided by the 10-year average life and that's what is going to be the EPS impact if you will on an annual basis from that? And where does that show up? You're talking about where does it  show up in Houston and letting the segments...
Yes I didn't know if that would come under like the transition bond company or I just...
No that will be in Houston Electric.
But you take the $258 million which I believe is an after-tax and an after-tax number a pretax number is north of  $400 million.
I think this year I think we can just give you the 2012 estimate.
Of what we think that number will be about $16 million increase.
And I'm sorry Gary is that a pretax or after-tax? That's pretax.
So I think that's the schedule we can provide you because this is -- this now we have the bonds.
So now this is going to be shake here.
The total I think you can expect next year about on a -- about $36 million next year -- or this year 2012.
I'm sorry $36 million in 2012? $36 million in 20 -- in -- yes total.
[Operator Instructions] And we do have  a follow-up question from David Frank with Catapult.
Just a question on kind of competition you're seeing now in the Field Services in the midstream I'm sorry in the liquids-rich regions of gas.
Obviously we hear a lot of talk from the producers moving rigs into the liquids-riched.
So you would think there is going to be more opportunities there.
But can you give us a sense of  what have you seen as far as traditional competition getting into these regions? You know David what I'd say is we're seeing the same level of competition as we've always seen from the same companies.
There's lots of folks out there that you're aware of their names just like we are that we compete with.
And so I don't think -- I think we're seeing the same cast of companies after this business as we've always seen.
And it's no tighter or it's not greater or less given more or less opportunities that could be out there? I think there's lots of folks interested in what we're doing but that's not new that's been there for several years.
Yes.
And this is Greg I would say that in some of these plays whereas wealth positions  anybody Mississippi line West Coast line where there's not really a competitive advantage that we can go in there with maybe a partner and be able to take capture some business.
But again in some of these areas producers like to do their own start up gathering systems as they try to prove out there  protection so...
We have a question from Jack Moore with Harpswell Capital.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions are answered.
Just wondering if you could comment on the virtue of the 2 kind of main separate businesses and the virtue of keeping both of those? And have you considered or reviewed the option of focusing more on one and perhaps selling one to somebody where it would be more strategic for them? Are you talking about gas versus electric regulated versus unregulated Jack? I want to make sure I understand.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Kind of -- yes I mean along those lines I guess it's split both  thinking gas versus electric and regulated versus unregulated.
It seems like you could slice the company in a few different ways and you know you got great assets and I'm not sure how much -- well management is certainly capable of doing a great job of -- if there is more value to be created by having 2 companies or 2 parties that are focused independently on their specific business.
In the past we've looked at selling parts of our businesses there's no -- especially 4 or 5 years ago.
We never could make that work from an after-tax basis and we're glad we didn't split it up.
I think you have to look at the scale of the remaining 2 businesses if you'd split them up.
And I think scale would be questionable if they weren't combined.
So do we from time to time look at that? Yes we do.
But I think at this stage we're not -- we don't believe that would be the right direction for the company.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would like to turn the call back over to Ms.
Paulsen for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you very much again.
Since we do not have any further questions we're going to end the call.
Thank you very much everyone for participating today.
We appreciate your support very much.
Have a great day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the CenterPoint Energy's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Paulsen? Thank you very much Beverly.
Good morning everyone.
This is Marianne Paulsen Director of Investor Relations for CenterPoint Energy.
I'd like to welcome you to our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will provide highlights on key activities and our business unit leaders will discuss the first quarter 2012 results for their respective segments.
In addition to these senior executives we have other members of management with us who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q filed earlier today are posted on our website which is www.centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available until 6:00 p.m.
Central Time on Thursday May 10 2012.
To access the replay please call 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 65391356.
You can also listen to an online replay of the call through the website that I just mentioned.
We will archive the call on CenterPoint Energy's website for at least 1 year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David.
Thank you Marianne.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning I will discuss our consolidated results for the first quarter of 2012.
As a change to what we have done in prior quarters I have asked our business unit leadership Scott Prochazka Tracy Bridge Greg Harper and Joe McGoldrick to provide comments on their respective units performance in the quarter and give their perspectives on trends and expectations for their businesses.
And finally Gary will provide an update on a few items including guidance.
We had a solid first quarter given the extremely mild winter weather and low natural gas prices.
This morning we reported net income of $147 million or $0.34 per diluted share compared to $148 million or $0.35 per diluted share for the same period of 2011.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2012 was $338 million compared to $364 million for the same period last year.
Our gas distribution unit and to a lesser extent our Competitive Gas Sales and Services business were impacted by the mild winter weather.
Houston Electric had a very solid quarter and our midstream businesses met expectations.
The diversity of our portfolio certainly helped maintain our earnings this quarter.
I'll now ask each of our business unit heads to give more detail around their earnings and prospects.
We'll start with Scott Prochazka the President of our Electric Operations.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Houston Electric's first quarter performance was excellent.
This year's operating income exceeded the first quarter of last year despite mild weather and the impact of rates implemented last September which reduced operating income by $11 million.
Revenues were bolstered by continued customer growth a modest increase in usage return associated with the recovery of true-up proceeds and increased ancillary revenues primarily from right-of-way leases.
Altogether the quarter was $2 million favorable to last year.
We serve one of the most vibrant areas in the nation and the prospects for Houston Electric are exciting.
We continue to enjoy a growing service territory with more than 42 000 customers added since the first quarter of last year.
More than 93 000 jobs were added during the 12 months ending in February of 2012.
And this rate of growth is projected to continue throughout the rest of the year.
The Houston unemployment rate is currently 7.2% down from a peak of 8.8%.
Houston is the fourth largest city and the fifth most populous metropolitan area in the country.
And the population growth rate of 2% is expected to continue for the next several years.
Another key driver of growth is low natural gas prices which support expansion in our refining base chemicals and downstream products industries.
These new facilities will require transmission and substation investments to serve a growing power requirement.
Additionally in response to the Panama Canal widening facilities at or near the port of Houston are being expanded to accommodate an increase in cargo movement.
This will bring general commercial and industrial growth as well as direct low growth associated with the installation of new larger electric short range [ph].
Commercial development is also strengthening.
Our world-class medical center continues to grow with the addition of 2 million square feet by the end of 2014.
Additionally new multipurpose campuses are being developed such as the new ExxonMobil corporate campus and nearby development that will include 5 000 homes along with 10 million square feet of commercial office and retail space.
From a reliability standpoint we are continuing our efforts to strengthen the grid by modifying our practices around pole management circuit inspection vegetation management and new construction.
Further we are adding operating and control infrastructure that will provide essential redundancy and comply with new federal regulations.
By midyear of 2012 we will complete our advanced metering system deployment.
This has been a very successful project with relatively few issues and no significant delays.
To address the growing infrastructure needs of the Houston service territory our capital investments will remain robust.
Even with our advanced metering project drawing to a close annual capital expenditures are projected to average over $500 million per year for the next 5 years leading to a 4% annualized growth and rate base.
As you may recall last summer was Houston's hottest on record and this winter was the mildest in over 50 years.
So it is unlikely that Houston Electric will equal its 2011 performance.
In addition the adverse impact of the rate case implemented last September will be experienced for the full year in 2012.
However with the benefit of strong growth ongoing cost management transmission cost recovery filings and additional ancillary revenues we expect Houston Electric to have a good year and return its authorized rate of return.
Since we now have capital trackers in place for both distribution and transmission investment we don't anticipate the need for a major Houston Electric rate case for the next several years.
I'll now turn the call over to Tracy Bridge President of our Gas Distribution business.
Thank you Scott and good morning.
For our gas LDCs this quarter was all about weather.
Although our first quarter revenues were approximately $52 million lower than the first quarter of last year due to weather we were able to mitigate $28 million of that impact through weather normalization adjustments or weather hedges.
When compared to normal the weather impact was approximately $42 million which was mitigated by $22 million through these mechanisms.
Operation and maintenance expenses were favorable to the first quarter of last year primarily due to $5 million of reduced bad debt expense.
Our credit and collection practices along with low natural gas prices and mild weather continued to reduce bad debt expense and we are working diligently on expense management across our business unit.
Our service areas continue to grow with more than 13 000 customers added since the first quarter of last year.
As Scott mentioned Houston is a growing service territory.
We are also experiencing growth in other areas of Texas as well as in Minnesota and Mississippi.
Unemployment rates are flat-to-down and housing starts are up from a year ago in all 6 states where we operate.
Improved operations and customer service continue to be top priorities.
We expect to benefit from efficiencies gained from technology advances and utility operations.
For example we are deploying advanced metering technology in our Houston Texas Coast and South Texas service areas which will increase productivity by allowing us to read 10 000 meters per vehicle per day compared to 500 meters per person per day.
We are very focused on serving our customers more efficiently and effectively and we continue to expand our conservation improvement programs.
We implemented a number of customer self-service options that allow greater automation and faster service.
We believe these types of efforts are paying off.
We recently earned the second highest score in the American Customer Satisfaction Index for investor-owned gas and electric utilities in the U.S.
and a first place ranking in the midwest region of the J.D.
Power Annual Residential Customer Satisfaction Survey for gas utilities.
System safety and reliability also remain a top priority.
As David mentioned on the fourth quarter call we expect capital expenditures to exceed $350 million a year over the next 5 years a significant increase over the historical run rate of about $200 million a year for this business unit.
These increases in capital expenditures are primarily related to distribution system upgrades and will result in annual rate base growth of over 6%.
Similar to the mechanisms Scott mentioned for Houston Electric we also have rate adjustment mechanisms in place in several jurisdictions that allow more timely recovery of capital costs.
One such mechanism is the Gas Reliability Infrastructure Program or G.R.I.P.
available in Texas.
The law provides for annual filings and we recently made GRIP filings in both our Houston and South Texas jurisdictions requesting a combined $12 million increase in annual revenues.
These new rates will begin in July 2012.
In summary we will continue to focus on expense management and employee rate adjustment mechanisms to mitigate the significant impacts of weather to date.
Now I'll turn the call over to Greg Harper Group President of Pipelines and Field Services.
Thank you Tracy.
Low gas prices were the story in the midstream business but our pipeline performed as expected and our Field Services unit continues to grow.
Let me begin with our Pipelines business.
Operating income was $60 million a decline of $16 million from the first quarter of 2011.
Total revenues of $13 million were due primarily to the expiration of a backhaul agreement on our Carthage to Perryville pipeline in midyear 2011.
The warm winter also affected loads across our system with lower than normal and considerably lower than the first quarter of last year.
Low gas prices and significantly compressed basis spreads adversely affected our office and sales.
The combined effect of these 2 factors produced about a $3 million decline compared to the same quarter last year.
We don't expect that pattern to change much until we see a return of locational basis spreads and gas price volatility in our market areas.
On a positive note we saw improved results in our ancillary services which increased by about $3 million over the first quarter 2011.
As you may know ancillary services include natural gas processing and treating as well as balancing services like park and loans or PALS.
Processing margins continue to be strong due to an increase in volumes of high BTU content gas coming into our pipelines from liquids-rich plays in East Texas and Northwest Louisiana.
PALS also provided improved results in the first quarter.
As you may recall we restructured and extended our agreements with our natural gas distribution facilities in 2010.
Due to the seasonal structure in these agreements results for the first quarter of 2012 led to increase of about $4 million compared to the same quarter last year.
These agreements became effective in March 2011.
And so for the balance of this year we expect comparable results to last year.
Our operations and maintenance expenses increased by about $7 million compared to the first quarter of 2011.
However last year's result included the favorable settlement of an insurance claim that reduced our operations and maintenance fixed messages [ph]  By about $4 million.
Equity earnings from our investment in the Southeast Supply Header a joint venture with Spectra was $6 million in 2012 a $2 million increase from the first quarter of the prior year.
A restructured and extended contract with an anchor shipper near the end of 2011 will result in an improvement in SESH's 2012 operating results.
Now I'll turn to the Field Services first quarter results.
Operating income from our Field Services business increased by $11 million to $47 million compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Despite low natural gas prices our revenues and margins remained strong clearly highlighting the value of our fee-based contracting strategy which emphasizes volume commitments and guarantee returns on our capital deployed.
Total gathering volumes for the quarter increased by nearly 30% or 237 billion cubic feet in 2012 across our entire gathering network.
More than 70% of those volumes came from the Haynesville Fayetteville and Woodford shale plays.
Average daily throughput across our system grew 2.6 billion cubic feet per day for the quarter compared to 2 billion cubic feet per day during the first quarter of 2011.
Volumes from our Haynesville Shale gathering system in North Louisiana averaged over 1.1 billion cubic feet per day in the first quarter of 2012.
These volumes reflect throughput from shale and Encana production as well as third-party shippers on the systems and is slightly down from the fourth quarter.
But the higher margins from the increasing gathering throughput was partially offset by significant decline in natural gas prices which reduced our margins for sales of retained natural gas by approximately $6 million compared to the first quarter of last year.
Our average realized price for gas was nearly $1.25 lower than the first quarter 2011 and nearly $0.50 lower than last quarter.
These low gas prices if sustained will adversely impact our full-year results.
Operation and maintenance expenses declined primarily as a result of ongoing efforts to reduce rental expenses for compression and treating facilities.
However new assets put into place to replace these rentals combined with new facilities built handoff [ph]  Haynesville shale growth resulted in increases and depreciation and taxes other than income.
Late last year Waskom our processing joint venture placed a 30 million -- 35 million cubic feet per day client [ph]  Expansion into service that included greater liquids offloading capabilities a new rail loading facility which provides greater access to premium liquids markets for Waskom customers.
Equity earnings from our 50% share of Waskom were $3 million an increase of $1 million over the first quarter of 2011.
Now I'd like to take a few minutes to discuss what the midstream businesses are focused on this year.
As I mentioned earlier we're seeing significant activity in the liquids-rich natural gas areas.
Both at pipelines and at self services we are actively pursuing several opportunities in and around our footprint including the Cana/Woodford in Western Oklahoma the Mississippi Lime in Northern Oklahoma and Southern Kansas and the Cotton Valley play in East Texas.
We have a presence near this place as well as access to end-use markets and to the Perryville hub which we believe makes us an attractive option to the producers developing these areas.
Our pipelines are also well positioned to capture opportunities from power generation customers.
There are 22 gas-fired power plants currently attached to our system of which more than half are under contract for firm services in excess of 800 million cubic feet per day.
We're in active discussions to increase contracted levels as gas power generation becomes more of a base load rather than a peaking load for the electric power markets.
We recently vowed to amend our Centerpoint Energy gas transmission tariff with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to allow our customers to choose the Perryville hub as a delivery and receipt point rather than specific points within the hub.
Concurrently we filed the application with the Intercontinental Exchange or ICE to make the Perryville hub a trading point for ICE transactions.
We believe our customers will find it beneficial to be able to use ICE to settle their physical transactions.
These actions along with the fact that we have significant interconnectivity with other pipelines and storage assets within the hub will provide our customers with added flexibility.
In addition we continue to develop great strategies for our 2 interstate pipelines.
More specifically in order to address the increased costs on our pipeline today we have initiated a settlement process with customers for a new tariff structure on our Mississippi river transmission pipeline.
This proposed rate structure will not only update our cost of service but provides a tracking mechanism for recovering costs associated with environmental and safety regulations.
Much like our Pipeline group our Field Services group is pursuing liquid-rich opportunities within the reach of our gathering and processing footprint.
We are also finding that the current low gas price environment is presenting new opportunities to acquire producer-owned gathering systems as well as to partner with producers as they conduct their initial development in new shale plays.
We recognize that we're currently operating in a challenging natural gas environment.
However we're pleased with the overall performance for our midstream business.
With that I'll turn the call over to Joe McGoldrick President of our Competitive Energy Services business.
Thank you Greg.
Our Energy Services business had an active quarter in which we positioned the business for the future.
After adjusting for the timing-related variances of mark-to-market accounting and the write-down of inventory to lower of cost or market operating income declined by $6 million from the same quarter of last year.
Two major contributors to the decline were the mild weather and the low gas prices as discussed by the other business presidents.
The mild weather caused lower usage by our commercial customers and the low gas price low volatility market environment had the effect of compressing unit margins.
Although the financial results were down it was not unexpected and there were several positive developments during the quarter.
First margins from seasonal storage spreads have improved and we should realize better fourth quarter results.
For example margins that averaged $0.50 to $0.60 per MMBTU last year are averaging $0.70 to $0.80 this year with some recent deals exceeding $1.
Next the strategic repositioning we implemented last year is gaining traction.
That strategy involved a greater focus in growing our retail business and a corresponding reduction of fixed costs by rightsizing our pipeline transportation capacity used to serve retail customers.
As an indicator of our progress our retail commercial business grew in both customer additions and throughput in the first quarter despite the challenging environment.
We added over 2 500 customers since the first quarter of last year a 21% increase.
1 400 of the new customers came from an acquisition we made late last year and 1 100 from our existing markets.
Also through our fixed cost reduction strategy we have either not renewed or negotiated early releases of uneconomic capacity.
These actions will reduce our fixed costs and improve our margins as the year progresses.
In 2012 alone we will see approximately $15 million of fixed cost savings.
Going forward we expect that this strategic realignment will yield better and more stable results consistent with CenterPoint's investment thesis.
Moreover we continue to see viable investment opportunities at CES' intrastate pipeline through customer interconnects as the growth appears to be very robust in the petrochemical and other energy-intensive industries on the Gulf Coast.
In conclusion we are pleased with our progress.
We believe the business has turned the corner to once again become a contributor to CenterPoint Energy's earnings growth.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
Today I would like to discuss a few items with you.
First I'd like to provide you with an update on the use of cash we received from the sale of the transition bonds in January.
As I mentioned last quarter in addition to paying off our outstanding commercial paper borrowings of approximately $200 million we reacquired tax exempt debt as a parent company with a principal amount of $375 million and a weighted average interest rate of 5.4%.
In addition to these actions on April 1 we retired approximately $46 million of maturing tax exempt debt in Houston Electric with a coupon of 3.625%.
In total we have paid down debt by more than $600 million which will result in a reduction in interest expense in 2012 of approximately $19 million or $0.03 per diluted share.
Our objective for the remaining $1-plus billion in cash is to have our businesses invest the money in accretive long-term projects and we are working diligently to do so.
We continue to receive questions about our financing strategy for our midstream business especially whether or not we intend to form an MLP.
As we have previously said the key variable for us is ensuring that we have visible long-term growth opportunities that merit the formation and use of an MLP.
Now let me discuss our 2012 earnings guidance.
This morning in our earnings release we reaffirmed our estimate for earnings in the range of $1.08 to $1.20 per diluted share.
As previously discussed we have developed our earnings guidance range by using a number of variables such as commodity prices volume throughput weather regulatory proceedings and our effective tax rate.
Clearly the extremely mild winter weather and low natural gas prices have been negatives to earnings in the first quarter.
On the other hand the earnings performance of Houston Electric and a lower effective tax rate have been positive.
We have taken into account the benefit of the debt reductions I mentioned earlier.
However we have not assumed any additional uses of our cash in developing these earnings range.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
And finally I would like to remind you of the $0.2025 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on April 26.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence of the Board of Directors in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
I will now turn the call back to Marianne.
Thank you Gary.
And with that we will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Beverly would you please give the instructions on how to ask the questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with CenterPoint Energy (sic) [BMO Capital Markets].
A couple of quick questions on Field Services if I could.
Last call we were targeting the Mississippi Lime just because of the lack of infrastructure and it was sort of early days.
I didn't know as that area kind of continues to crop up on several competitor's radar screen.
How you are currently seeing progress in that area if there's any further color you can add there? Carl this is Greg.
We've announced a project in that area called White Eagle a couple months ago and to garner some traction.
We continue to discuss with several producers about that project.
What we're finding is some of the larger producers that have more than acreage have to defer their RFP processes to midyear to end of the year.
And so we're kind of still in sync with what's going on on the timing there.
But we are very actively pursuing that Mississippi Lime area.
Okay.
No I appreciate that.
And then just a follow-up on Field Services.
Again I just want to make sure I understand if there are any nuances to be aware of? Sequentially as we look from fourth quarter of '11 to first quarter the volume seemed to be very much intact.
The EBIT is obviously down.
One of the easy things is the retained fuel will lower gas prices.
That didn't seem to me that that would be the whole of it.
And I just want to make sure there isn't anything else there going on to be aware of? Well I think on a -- for the top line definitely fuel the $0.50 difference from fourth quarter to first quarter on the same amount of retained gas is going to drive several million dollars there in and of itself.
The other is those expenses are great.
We had volumes and projects at the very end of last year so we'll have a little bit higher expenses.
And then I mean at EBIT level I mean not EBITDA but we are we kick in depreciation at the beginning of the year as well on those assets.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just actually one other question if I could.
Are you guys okay with breaking out on CES sort of the retail and wholesale components going forward or for the first quarter I should say? Carl this is David.
We really don't look at that business now as retail versus wholesale.
We have some wholesale asset these transportation assets and storage assets but they're really designed to serve our retail customer base.
So we really look at this as a pure retail business that we do optimize around those assets and have made money in the past but we don't really now think about that as a separate division or line of business within CES.
Your next question is coming from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David in the past you had mentioned to us as you were thinking about the use of cash that you would look for opportunities be disciplined.
But as summer rolled around and you had not seen opportunities you'd reassess what the plans were going to be.
So I just wanted to get a little more insight on that thinking? And the debt pay down I see that but the kind of returns 5% or thereabouts -- I'm assuming you are expecting a higher return from the remaining $1.1 billion or so of cash? So we are getting close to the middle of the year.
Can you just tell us what is the opportunity out there if it's not fee services? Is it more regular utility? What should we be looking for? Ali we are and we did talk about midyear this year we'd give you an update around the opportunities we see and we still plan to do that on our next call.
But we're pursuing a number of opportunities particularly in the midstream area right now.
We're seeing a lot of things pop up whether it's opportunities to buy some existing assets from producers or whether it's to respond to RFPs that were -- to put in new infrastructure.
But I would expect by the next call we're going to have insight around our opportunities there and whether or not we're going to think we're going to be successful.
As Greg mentioned we don't control the timing of a lot of these things.
I think the producer if they pull an RFP and push it off until the fourth quarter we can't control that.
But I think we will have more insight the next time we talk and we intend to give you more color on that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And one follow-up.
Excluding that use of that cash if you just look at your existing portfolio both the regulated nonregulated and the opportunities and the growth embedded in there what kind of EPS growth rate do you believe this portfolio can generate for you off this 2012 base you've given us? Our internal target is we want to grow EPS by 4% to 6% annually.
It can be a little lumpy in there.
But we think this -- we have the kind of opportunities to do that.
You heard both Scott and Tracy talk about rate-based growth at the electric side it's 4%.
On the gas distribution side it's 6%.
So in and of itself I think from the pure regulated businesses we're going to have some good growth there.
But the -- we'll need to have some growth in the midstream business to achieve the upper end of that growth range.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just to be clear not factoring in anything from that extra $1 billion in cash or is that also incorporated in there? Well we're going to be using probably some of that $1 billion in these regulated businesses because we're spending between just Houston Electric and the Gas Distribution business we'll spend almost $900 million in 2012.
So there is a lot of growth there but on top of the -- and either we use the money that we have now or -- and if we use that on something else we'll have to probably finance part of that in the future.
But I think we have plenty of opportunities on our pure regulated businesses to grow earnings.
Your next question is coming from David Frank with Catapult.
Question -- are you -- Ali started to ask it there I guess but are you also looking at regulated utility acquisitions as a potential use of the cash? And is that an acceptable -- could that be an acceptable alternative to midstream investments? Maybe it can be absolutely can be.
You don't see quite as many opportunities in that space as you do in the midstream space.
There are a couple of I think of near-term especially around that Gas Distribution businesses that may come on the market.
But yes there -- we look at across our full spectrum of businesses for opportunities.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Just wanted to clarify something on the backhaul contracts.
I believe you said it was a $13 million hit.
In previous calls you said it will be about a $10 million incremental for last year for the year.
Does that mean that the second quarter shouldn't see any impact? Andrew this is Greg.
I think we were kind of looking at a -- what a number could be based on certain fuel levels and fuel retentions and gas prices.
Obviously gas prices drops substantially.
And when we're talking about that Line CP backhaul agreement we encompassed several components of that.
And a backhaul flow facilitates better fuel savings which we did realize last year and we didn't realize this year.
Plus what we did realize in fuel savings was at a little lower price this year in the first quarter.
Relative to second quarter and balance of the year the backhaul arrangement went away midyear last year.
So what we see on Line CP will just be really relative to our other re-contracting efforts on CP and that basis has shrunk dramatically on CP process system.
The only thing I would add there Andrew is that we did have an extension of that backhaul agreement for 4 or 5 months in 2011 at a much lower rate than the original contract.
And that extension has not -- is no longer in place.
So there'll be a little bit of continuing impact there but it's not going to be at the same level as the first quarter.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just to clarify your standing guidance does that assume any re-contract extensions? Or would everything be incremental? I'm sorry I didn't hear re-contracting...
Re-contracting or extensions.
Does the current guidance assume nothing new? Or does that already embed some sort of assumption around filling in that expiration? Well we have made our best guess our best judgment of our contracts that expire this year and we have a few.
And we've already renewed a number of those as well as being able to take some of this space whether it's backhaul space or other space and sell it to -- in the market.
So we've made assumptions around that in our earnings guidance.
Okay.
And there's one additional one sorry if I missed it.
I jumped on the call a little bit late.
What did weather-adjusted load growth look like at the Houston utility? Scott do you have those numbers in front of you? Yes.
So the weather-adjusted so the non-weather-based loan growth was about $3 million is that right? It was $3 million for the first quarter.
And a good amount of that came from the commercial side as opposed to residential.
So what does that look like on a percentage of volume or megawatt hours? I'm sorry what was the question? What did weather-normalized load growth look like in terms of volumes and megawatts hours? Okay.
Let me see if I can get that.
We'll have to look for that number and we can get that back to you.
Our next question is coming from Yves Siegel with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
When you look at the opportunity on Field Services any sense of bracketing what you think the potential growth CapEx opportunity is there as some of these projects come to fruition? I hesitate to make an estimate because some of these are pretty big projects and if we win one it'd be -- we could spend a lot of money here.
But I think just conjecturing on that probably doesn't do any good at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then here's my last question follow-up question it might be a little nit-picky but when we think about 4% to 6% type of growth going forward on EPS what kind of base of earnings should we be thinking about because it's been a little bit lumpy over the last few years? Yes 2011 was a particularly good year for us because of all of the weather-related benefits we got at Houston Electric.
As I recall Scott it was about $55-plus million of weather-related revenues.
So when I think about it our re-based -- baseline the 2011 earnings to kind of take out the weather and then you grow it 4% to 6% off of that.
Your next question is coming from Steve Fleishman with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First these ancillary revenues at CEHE I think you mentioned they're in the quarter and you mentioned they're going to continue for the year.
How much do you think they'll be for the year? And is this something that'll go on beyond this year? Steve this is Scott I'll take that.
The way these revenues are coming in we sign leases with these pipeline companies that are looking to move through our right-of-ways and they're one-time payments.
So the increase that we got for the first quarter those particular leases are not going to continue paying as we go through the rest of the year.
But what we do see is continued interest in others that are trying to utilize those right-of-ways.
So given the amount of activity in these nearby shale plays we do continue to expect more coming in.
I would be at a loss to estimate exactly what I think that number would be but it was pretty sizable in the first quarter and it'd be hard to believe that that rate would continue in terms of new ones coming through the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other separate question I guess for David.
The -- back a while ago you had talked about kind of midyear 2012 as being a bit of a focus date  in terms of if you don't have some projects looking at share buyback.
Should we assume given that some of these project opportunities have been pushed out that midyear is not kind of a key date anymore? Steve we will update that in our next call at the end of the second quarter.
I don't want to -- there's a lots of things can happen over the next 3 months.
So let's just kind of wait and see how the next 3 months kind of unfold.
We've got a lot of lines in the water and we're pursuing a lot of different opportunities.
Not giving up on investing some of this money this year.
But we'll have a lot better I think insight into that as we report out in the second quarter.
And if something happens between now and then obviously we'll announce it.
Beverly do we have any other questions? There are no further questions.
I'm sorry? Okay thank you very much Beverly since we don't have any further questions we're going to end the call at this point.
Thank you very much for participating today.
We appreciate your support very much.
Have a great day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's first quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mrs.
Kneipp [ph]? Thank you very much Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
This is Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations for CenterPoint Energy.
I'd like to welcome you to our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will discuss second quarter 2012 results and Greg Harper Senior Vice President and Group President of our Pipelines and Field Services businesses will provide highlights on [indiscernible] midstream acquisitions.
In addition we have other members of management with us who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q filed earlier today are posted on our website which is centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through 6 p.m.
Central Time Thursday August 9 2012.
To access the replay please call (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 91655009.
You can also listen to an online replay of the call through the website that I just mentioned.
We will archive the call on CenterPoint Energy's website for at least one year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David.
Thank you Carla.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This quarter was a good one for the company.
We had a solid quarter from both a financial and operating standpoint.
This morning we reported net income of $126 million or $0.29 per diluted share.
This compares to net income of $119 million or $0.28 per diluted share for the same quarter of 2011.
Operating income for the second quarter was $302 million compared to $303 million last year.
Houston Electric had a solid quarter despite milder weather compared to 2011.
We reported operating income of $153 million which was the same as the second quarter of 2011.
Operating income benefited from the growth of more than 43 000 customers since the second quarter of last year.
This represents a growth rate of 2% which we believe will continue for the remainder of the year.
We also benefited from the ongoing recognition of deferred equity returns associated with the company's recovery of true-up proceeds and an increase in miscellaneous revenues primarily from grants of right-of-way easements.
Offsetting these benefits was a $15 million impact from the rate changes implemented in September 2011 and higher net transmission cost.
In May Houston Electric substantially completed the deployment of our advanced metering system having installed approximately 2.2 million smart meters.
We completed this $660 million project on time and on budget and I'm very proud of the many employees who contributed to the success of this deployment.
Houston Electric is now focused on implementing our intelligent grid project which will bring substantial automation and new functionality to our distribution system.
This project other system improvements and robust growth in our Houston service territory should drive capital expenditures of $500 million to $600 million per year contributing to rate base growth of approximately 4% annually.
Our natural gas distribution business reporting -- reported $9 million of operating income in the second quarter of 2012 which was $4 million less than last year primarily due to the impacts of milder weather.
We continue to focus on productivity gains and operating efficiencies to offset the impact of extremely mild weather this year.
Annual rate adjustments in a number of our jurisdictions continue to help us recover new investments as well as to offset reductions in usage without the necessity of a major rate proceeding.
This significantly reduces the amount of regulatory lag which we would typically experience.
We also continue to be focused on system reliability due to the replacement of infrastructure as well as upgrading our systems to enhance service to our customers.
These investments together with normal load growth and system maintenance are expected to require capital expenditures of $300 million to $400 million annually and produce rate-based growth of approximately 6% a year.
Now let me turn to our midstream businesses.
Our interstate pipelines unit recorded operating income of $52 million compared to $60 million for the same quarter of 2011.
The decline was primarily the result of an expired backhaul contract and the associated loss of compressor efficiency.
We continue to pursue opportunities to serve customers on or near our pipelines with special focus on power generation customers and producers in Western Oklahoma looking for access to interstate markets.
Equity income from SESH our joint venture with Spectra was $6 million compared to $5 million in the same quarter of 2011 reflecting the benefit of a new contract started in January of this year.
Our field services unit reported operating income of $51 million compared to $39 million for the same quarter of 2011.
The increase in operating income was primarily the result of long-term agreements in the Haynesville and Fayetteville shale plays partially offset by lower prices that we received from selling retained gas.
Gathering throughput increased approximately 18% compared to the second quarter of last year but it declined about 2% since last quarter.
We expect our overall system throughput to average approximately 2.6 billion cubic feet per day through 2012.
As we have discussed in the past our investment in the shale plays are backed by throughput our rate-of-return guarantees which reduce our sensitivity to throughput volumes.
In our largest gathering area Haynesville our producer/customers have a backlog of well completions and 1 rig operating.
Based on their guidance we expect Haynesville throughput to remain about 1 Bcf per day for the remainder of the year.
Additionally since we have moved from the construction phase to full operating phase in the Haynesville we are realizing better efficiency and expense management.
In addition to operating income we also recorded equity income of $2 million from our jointly owned Waskom facilities compared to $3 million last year.
This quarter Waskom experienced lower volumes due to upstream supply disruptions and lower commodity prices.
Greg will discuss the details of our 2 recent midstream acquisitions in a few minutes.
Our competitive natural gas sales and services business reported an operating loss of $4 million compared to operating income of $3 million in the same quarter of last year.
After adjusting for mark-to-market accounting results for the second quarter of 2012 increased $1 million compared to the second quarter of 2011.
We experienced increases in both retail customers and sales volumes.
Our focus continues to be on the expansion of our commercial and industrial customer base rationalizing our fixed cost and increasing our product and service offerings.
In summary despite the mild impact of mild weather and a challenging energy environment the company delivered solid operating and financial results.
I think this once again demonstrates the value of our balanced portfolio of electric and natural gas businesses.
Now let me turn to the use of the remaining true-up proceeds.
In our last call I indicated I would provide clarity around the use of these funds.
Since that time we have invested over $360 million in 2 midstream acquisitions bringing the total use of the true-up proceeds to about $1 billion after taking into account the debt reductions we made earlier this year.
The 2 recent acquisitions have boosted our confidence that we can successfully execute on attractive midstream opportunities in this highly competitive market.
We are currently in active discussions with producers in the Mississippi Lime Cana/Woodford and Tuscaloosa Marine Shale plays to build new gathering and processing facilities for natural gas and crude oil production.
In several cases we are responding to RFPs by these producers.
We have also had some success in getting into areas outside our Mid-Continent footprint.
Pursuant to a letter of intent with a major producer we recently began preliminary survey and right-of-way work for a potential crude gathering system in the Bakken Shale.
Our goal is to execute a gathering agreement with them by year-end.
Besides these midstream opportunities we are very interested in expanding our regulated investments and believe it is important to maintain a balance of regulated and unregulated assets.
Given these opportunities we have no plans for a stock buyback at this time.
We believe we can deploy the remaining proceeds in good investment opportunities over the next 18 months or so.
Let me conclude by discussing a recent change in our Executive management team.
Earlier this week we named Scott Prochazka to a newly formed position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
In his new capacity Scott will be a member of the company's Executive Committee and each of our business units will report to him.
In turn he will report to me.
Scott has been with CenterPoint since 2001.
His most recent assignment was the President of Houston Electric.
He has also served in leadership roles in strategic planning customer service and gas distribution.
Prior to coming to CenterPoint he spent 12 years at Dow Chemical.
Scott has an excellent mix of both regulated and unregulated business experience.
While Scott has not previously had operational responsibilities in the midstream businesses he shares my views of the importance of these businesses to the overall CenterPoint portfolio.
Scott will be a great contributor as we strive to grow our regulated and competitive businesses and enhance the value of CenterPoint to our shareholders.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you David and good morning everyone.
Today I would like to discuss a few items with you.
First I would like to discuss our 2012 earnings guidance.
This morning in our earnings release we increased our earnings estimate to the range of $1.13 to $1.23 per diluted share.
This is up from previously provided guidance of $1.08 to $1.20 per diluted share.
This revision in guidance reflects an increase in earnings for 2012 of approximately $0.03 per diluted share associated with our 2 recent midstream acquisitions.
Greg will describe these acquisitions and their earnings potential in more detail in his comments.
In addition to the items I just mentioned we have developed our earnings guidance range based on performance to date and by using a number of variables that may impact earnings such as commodity prices throughput volume weather regulatory proceedings and effective tax rate.
We have taken into account the benefit of debt reduction.
However we have not assumed additional earnings from the use of the remaining cash.
Our revised guidance excludes a nonrecurring pretax gain of approximately $130 million.
This gain will be recorded in the third quarter and is the result of remeasuring to fair value our regional 50% interest in the Waskom assets.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings outlook.
We continue to receive questions about the financing strategy of our midstream business especially whether or not we have made a decision to form an MLP.
We have $600 million to $700 million of available cash on hand so there is no immediate need for financing.
However our confidence in our ability to make midstream investments over the long term continues to increase and I expect this unit will ultimately need financing to support its expanding activities.
Significant ongoing investments would make an MLP attractive.
Of course the capital and financing requirements of the company's other subsidiaries will play a role in this decision as well.
Also I wanted to mention that last week we were very pleased to learn that Moody's upgraded the ratings outlook of both the parent company and Houston Electric from stable to positive.
This is a reflection of the consistent improvement in our credit metrics and the overall strength of the company -- financial strength of the company.
We look forward to building from our strong base of assets and continuing our track record of strong performance for our shareholders.
Finally I would like to remind you of the $0.2025 per share dividend declared by the Board of Directors on July 25.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence the Board of Directors has in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
I will now turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Gary.
I'm pleased to report on 2 recent acquisitions that not only provide near-term earnings benefits as Gary mentioned but more importantly position our field services and interstate pipeline businesses very well for the future.
First you may recall that in June we signed an agreement with Martin Midstream to acquire their 50% interest in the Waskom joint venture asset and several of the Prism Gas assets for approximately $275 million.
This transaction closed on July 31 and we now own 100% of Waskom and are the operator of the facility.
The purchase also includes Prism's Woodlawn gathering and processing system and 3 smaller gathering systems: Mcleod Hallsville and Darco.
The Waskom assets include a recently expanded 320 million cubic feet per day natural gas processing facility with 14 500 barrels per day of fractionation capacity.
Along with the Harrison gathering system a 75 million cubic feet per day gathering system connects to the Waskom plant.
Fleet Long [ph] is a 30 million cubic feet per day gathering and processing system located in Harrison County Texas with 3 smaller gathering systems combined to gather and treat more than 40 million cubic feet per day of natural gas and are located near our other newly acquired assets in East Texas and Northwest Louisiana.
The majority of the throughput from the new gathering systems is connected to the Waskom plant with access to its extensive natural gas liquids markets in the Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent pipeline infrastructure.
This acquisition which positions us as the operator of key processing assets will provide a significant boost to our commercial efforts in the area.
In particular we have seen an increase in producer activity due to the improved economics of producing liquids-rich natural gas in the Cotton Valley field as well as other nearby formations which is expected to enhance the inlet stream into the Waskom plant.
Waskom provides a competitive market for natural gas liquids without the additional cost of transportation to the fractionation capacity at Mont Belvieu.
Waskom also provides several takeaway options for natural gas including our CEGT pipeline and access to our Carthage to Perryville pipeline and our Perryville hub.
Furthermore the railroad loading facility that was completed in late 2011 provides our customers optionality and increased access to premium natural gas liquids markets.
In our new role as owner and operator of the Prism facilities in conjunction with our existing assets in the area we expect to realize significant commercial and operational synergies.
Additionally in May we acquired Encana's Amoruso gathering and treating assets for approximately $89 million.
Concurrently we entered into a long-term gathering agreement for the Amoruso and Hilltop field production located in Robertson and Leon Counties in East Texas.
Encana has been an excellent partner for us since we entered our first agreement with them in the Haynesville Shale in September of 2009.
The gathering agreement has a term of 15 years and includes an initial volume commitment as well as a dedication of Encana's future production from the covered area.
The contract also provides a guaranteed return on all future capital deployed to gather production within the dedicated acreage.
So while drilling in dry gas areas like this one has slowed recently the contracted volume commitments alone provide returns that meet our investment criteria.
However the ultimate recoverable reserves are significant in the dedicated area and when drilling levels improve we will been a great position to benefit from the increased production.
As important this transaction gives us a presence in the area and allows us to pursue liquids-rich and crude oil plays that producers are developing in that part of East Texas.
Now let me address the transactions from a financial perspective.
With the synergies we anticipate to capture through the Prism assets the increase in liquids-rich volumes we expect at the Waskom plant and our producers current production profiles we estimate that we paid approximately 7x 2013 EBITDA for the Amoruso and Prism assets combined.
On an operating income basis we expect Amoruso to contribute $9 million to $12 million per year over the next several years and Prism to contribute $28 million to $33 million of operating income per year.
Finally the Prism and Amoruso assets in conjunction with the existing assets in our footprint strategically positions us as a key gathering processing and transportation service provider in the region serving as a foundation for significant growth in the years ahead.
Now let me turn the call over to Carla.
Thank you Greg.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Sarah would you please give the instructions on how to ask a question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
If I could just follow-up on Greg on that last comment you made and appreciate the additional detail.
Is that 7x EBITDA? And I guess this is really more for Prism the $28 million to $33 million of targeted income.
Is the confidence in that coming from the level of synergies that you see that you can take out? Or is it more coming or equally coming from an ongoing expected activity ramp drilling ramp in the area? Yes.
I think definitely the 3 components that I pointed out Carl.
It's definitely the synergies.
We expect to see significant synergies as we operate these amongst the interstate pipelines we have and obviously the existing field services facilities in that area.
But we are also see a richer gas stream already coming into the plant than what we saw last year and at the beginning of this year.
We expect that to continue to increase in richness based on some of the deals that we're negotiating and will be coming on by the end of the year.
Plus the producers that we are in concert with have given us their production profiles through 2013 so we see that ramp-up coming in and that we expect the plant to full by year-end.
To be full by year end.
Okay.
And one other question if I could.
Just the comment make sure I heard it correctly that looking at a Bakken crude oil gathering line and then recognizing -- might still be in negotiating phase but I'd be curious if you could give us some more color both how -- since you're not sort of currently a crude gathering player how that came about as well as what type of investment size might we be dealing with.
Yes I'll take the first part and let David address the investment side if we can.
This is a relationship oriented deal.
A very large producer major assets to take a look at that with them as their sole-sourced gatherer.
If we can negotiate it with them.
As far as crude versus natural gas liquids versus natural gas gathering a few of the specs are a little bit different based on codes the DOT codes.
But other than that it's welding pipe and operating a system.
It's some pumps versus compression.
We have the technical capabilities in-house.
I'd also say that the Prism acquisition was very strategic since we're picking up employees that actually have experience in that area as well.
So we feel very good about it.
I feel very confident in our ability to execute on the capital.
This preliminary survey and investigation processes is to confirm our capital that we anticipate.
So that's actually why we're doing it.
We want to measure that what we thought we could do on a preliminary basis is what we can go out there and execute on.
And David on the investment side? You know I think it is going to depend in part on our confirmation through this right away in survey work.
Between $100 million and $200 million is the relative size for just this particular system.
Now of course our long-term desire is to be able to expand that system and serve other customers in the area as well.
But certainly this individual -- just this project would be in that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Appreciate all the detail on the transactions.
One thing that I'm little bit unsure of though is the commodity risk.
So when you think about these 2 deals and your plans to invest organically around them how do you think of the mix of fee-based arrangements versus percentage of proceeds? Well as you know we are already 50% owners of Waskom.
So we have just doubled our commodity exposure.
But I think David and I have addressed on several calls before that nearly 50% of the Waskom inlet is based on fee-based.
And we also have the right if liquids prices go extremely down we have the right convert all of the volumes to fee-based.
So the right balance I think we have a very good balance right now with what we're taking on.
Again the Amoruso transaction is a volume commitment transaction so that gives us guaranteed revenues with that stream.
So I think as we go and balance our field services portfolio we're looking at solid fee-based investments with some investments have maybe a moderate level of commodity exposure.
I don't have anything to add there.
I think we're comfortable with this amount of commodity exposure and the fact that we can move it into fixed fee if we decide that's what we want to do.
Great.
And just one other question.
Is you talked about the desire to keep the balance between the regulated and more unregulated businesses.
A lot of the commentaries sounds like you have a ton of opportunity to invest in these nonregulated businesses but historically the electric utility has been about 1/2 of operating earnings becomes about 2/3 regulated when you add the gas distribution.
Any high-level thoughts on maybe what those percentages might look like in 2 3 years or so? It's hard to say.
We're spending a lot more money now just organically in our electric and gas distribution business than we did in the past.
I expect that we're going to have more opportunities just in our current footprint to increase those investments.
And we are going to -- we continue to look at things outside of our footprint.
But when I think about our regulated side and I include the interstate pipes in that certainly that's going to represent 75% or more of our earnings for the next 3 to 5 years.
We do expect field services to become a more important component.
But our regulated business is going to be our predominant asset and business for our company for long term.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all just flesh out a little more of your comments.
I think I heard you say that the remaining cash that you have currently sitting which I think is just north of $700 million on the true-up.
You would expect to deploy that over the next 18 months? Did I hear that right? And when should we see returns on that and how should we be quantifying or thinking about returns of that cash being put to use? Yes I think that by the end of next year I'm confident we'll have deployed that cash.
And I think as we make these investments we'll start realizing the benefit of many of those investments.
To the extent it's in organic new regulated investments which some of it will be.
There is a little lag associated with that.
We do have trackers both on the electric side and gas aside.
So there could be a little lag.
But it's not going to very much lag at all with these investments even on the regulated side.
It will occur between now and the end of next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And my second question.
If I think about the implications of that investment to the underlying earnings growth power of your company could you gave us some sense of how we should think about -- let's take the 2012 base what should be the earnings annual earnings growth for the company a organically and then as cash has been deployed? How should we be thinking about the incremental change as that is happening? Let's think about it from 2011 base on a normalized basis which is kind of the way we've described it in the past.
Our goal is to be able to grow earnings for the company in the 4% to 6% range annually.
And that would not necessarily be smooth it'll be a little bit lumpy but that's on a 5-year basis.
We have plenty of growth in our rate base as you heard us say for Houston Electric and our gas LDCs.
And then the big growth is going to have come from our field services side and our midstream businesses.
And what we're indicating this morning is we have a fair amount of confidence that we're going to be able to do that.
The recent acquisitions plus just the amount of activity we're involved with gives us confidence we're going to be able to do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to be clear sorry.
One thing to be clear on that.
So the 4% to 6% would be there whether you deploy this excess cash or not? The cash deployment is not changing that equation? Our objective is to grow at that rate right? And so we're going to be deploying some of this cash in that process but that's our long-term growth potential.
Near term because of the amount of cash that we have in our regulated utilities amount of investments it will not necessarily be just straight line.
It could be a little lumpy but that's our long-term goal.
Our next question comes from the line of John Edwards with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> If I could just follow up on the last question maybe ask a different way.
As far as the excess cash what's your expectation for the incremental growth from deploying that cash? We're trying to figure out another way to say it.
Research Division</strong> I mean 1% 2%? I mean on top of your 4% to 6% objective would you expect that your investment opportunity set or landscape that you're looking at would you expect 1% to 2% on top of your sort of 5% objective or how should we think about that? Yes.
The fact that we have cash on our balance sheet doesn't change our opportunity set.
What it does is it provides us a very good financing amount of dollar.
We don't have to pay any incremental cost to this we just have to put it to work.
And I think that we're going to be able to do that.
So I think -- we do factor in the fact that we don't have to pay any incremental cost for this $600 million $700 million of cash we have on our balance sheet.
So from that standpoint there's clearly an upside there.
But the fact that we have the cash on our balance sheet really doesn't change our opportunity set and we'd be going after the same investments whether we had the money or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then if we could just kind of revisit the MLP issue briefly.
In terms of your thought process there I guess there's some sort of a critical mass or sustainability you're trying to achieve.
And maybe if you could just review that issue.
No.
What we said this morning is that we're more and more confident that we're going to be able to invest regularly in this business.
We said I think in the past that we need to see visibility of $300 million to $400 million of kind of ongoing annual capital expenditures in these businesses and we're getting more and more confident we're going to be able to achieve that.
And so as Gary said the MLP becomes very attractive from a financing standpoint as we see that come to fruition.
So certainly the MLP is still on the table and whenever we get to the  point where we need financing we will absolutely look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> David I was wondering if you could kind of differentiate if there's different skill set that's needed between building and operating gathering and processing facilities for crude oil versus natural gas liquids? Well I think you need a -- there is a different skill set.
I don't think it's necessarily harder or -- not harder but you have to know what you're doing.
I've actually spent a fair amount of time with Greg on this very subject talking with him about do we have the skill sets do we have the talent? And we have people on staff that have done this before.
They're very familiar with it.
And as Greg said we have some folks that we are acquiring as part of this recent acquisition.
That is going to further add to our internal capabilities.
So yes you need different skill sets.
But I think we have them and we can acquire those that we don't have.
Research Division</strong> Is it any more riskier to run kind of crude oil gathering in pipeline systems than it is to run kind of just natural gas and NGL systems? Our internal staff does not believe this.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question maybe just on the same topic.
A lot of producers seem to want to hold onto their crude oil sort of gathering and processing systems while they seem okay kind of handing off the NGL natural gas gathering systems to the midstream companies.
Is there any reason why you think that a lot of these companies are holding onto these assets are building out their own infrastructure rather than handing it off to someone like you? The only thing I'd say -- I'm not sure we can answer that.
But we've responded to RFPs that have a crude component in it.
And then we talked to you about the one project that we're pursuing right now.
So you may be correct but our experience is that they're not necessarily holding onto the crude part of this.
And I think as commodity prices have fallen you've seen producers want to let somebody else handle the infrastructure.
And whether that continues or not we'll just have to wait and see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On Waskom the fractionator there.
Now that you control 100% of it is there any desire to expand that fractionation unit or expand the entire system? I think our anticipation is based on some producer profile curves we'll be hopefully looking at an expansion in the near term.
But I'm not quite sure if the fractionation capacity is able to put on a whole new train.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Fleishman with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just on the -- I guess this might be for Greg on the acquisition details.
The numbers that you gave for Prism and for the 2 projects were those EBITDA or income numbers? The 28 to 30 and the 9 to 12.
Yes the 9 to 12 operating income parameter so was operating income.
And 28 to 33 is operating income for Prism.
The multiple that I mentioned the 7x 2013 was on an EBITDA basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's off the $360 million spend? Correct.
Okay.
And I mean that's obviously for an acquisition this sector seems very attractive given where most of the other types of properties trade.
When you're looking at these other potential opportunities are you seeing the potential to be able to get stuff in that area? Or...
I think the deals that David mentioned are going to be greenfield-type build-outs.
So hopefully we would be building those at 4x to 6x.
It's what you typically try to build-out new facilities at.
I think when it goes the acquisitions I think this is on the low side.
But it really goes to the fact that we had facilities and operations in and around our Prism assets.
And with this acquisition we're going to be able to do more with the combination of all of these that somebody that wasn't in our position couldn't do.
We were in a unique position to be able to do this and so that's what we're trying to capitalize on here.
If it was in an area that we didn't operate in.
For us to get this kind of multiple is probably pretty hard.
I would also add that we have very good relationships both with Martin Midstream and also as I mentioned in my remarks with Encana.
And these deals come about through those types of relationships as opposed to them taking these assets out to bid.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just in thinking about this.
I mean '13 is the first full year.
I'm not sure you've gotten -- will you have essentially the full benefit from these investments in '13 or will there be some additional benefit after that? Yes.
I think one reason why we give 2013 that is a first full operational year.
We think obviously we'll integration expenses here through the balance of this year plus we're ramping up production.
I think it's going to take 2 full years for all of the synergies to play out for the fullest effect.
But 2013 is going to be a good representation.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Just 2 cleanup questions actually on the second quarter specifically.
One I didn't know and appreciate the weather impact on the LDC side.
May was pretty hot down here as you guys know.
Did CE get a weather bump as well? I mean it looks like it was 14% warmer than normal but I don't know if we got a bump in the EBIT? Yes let me kind of explained that.
The LDC impact was in April.
And it was -- there's usually some weather especially in Minnesota in some of our Northern areas.
And we didn't get any weather.
And so that was $4 million or $5 million impact on the LDC.
Certainly May and June didn't impact the LDC.
On the other hand last year at Houston Electric the second quarter was really warm.
And so when you compare this year to last year we were behind probably $8 million $9 million.
We made up that.
Now compared to normal though we were ahead.
We were ahead of normal weather probably in that same range $8 million $10 million.
Okay.
So net collectively we probably had a small weather benefit for the quarter? Compared to normal.
Compared to normal right.
That's right.
And then second question if I could just to kind of dot the Is.
The midstream volumes for the second quarter can we continue to split that out via legacy and shale? It's certainly getting tougher Carl.
Most of our -- especially as we add in these new assets going forward but...
[indiscernible] 36% was traditional this quarter.
So it's looking like 60-40 it's going to kind of hold there.
As I tried to look at the quarter compared to the previous quarter our traditional plays we still saw some erosion of volumes there.
We're offsetting those volumes with the Amoruso and Prism but it's probably in the 1% to 2% decline range from last quarter our traditional basins and that will continue unless we get some drilling in those areas.
But it's not a real steep decline because once these things kind of get through the big steep decline the first year or 2 then it's an annual decline but at a much more slower rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David just one follow-up question.
The past you've told us you're obviously not a traditional utility company given your mix.
You're more of a conglomerate of assets.
So when you look your mix right now the cash sitting on your balance sheet do you believe that the public equity market is correctly valuing your stock? Or is there a scenario to unlock shareholder value by separating out the company.
I understand the argument on the financing need.
But forgetting that for a second.
Just from unlocking shareholder value do you think you're properly priced in the market today or could there be shareholder value unlocked if you were to look at yourselves as 2 separate companies? A fair question Ali.
I would say that we try to provide enough clarity around all of our businesses that you can do some of the parts valuation and get full value.
I think conglomerates if that's what you want to call it typically don't -- they always trade at a little bit of a discount.
There's value some in conglomerates.
We talk about the value of our balanced portfolio of electric and natural gas and we truly see that as a value to our shareholders.
But we continue to look for ways to unlock value.
Some people have said MLPs will do that.
We're certainly are sensitive to that and continue to study that.
But we want to make sure our company is trading at full value.
I would say that our view is we still have some upside it.
And we continue to try to make sure there's enough information in the market that the market can  properly value us.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So one follow-up on that.
In that context as you're looking at your investment opportunities and you're looking at potentially investing in their own stock.
From a return perspective if your stock in your mind is not being valued today do share buybacks have a higher degree in your scheme of investments? Good question again.
I would say that our analysis of that based on the alternative which is to invest in these kind of projects it's better to invest than buy back stock.
That's been our conclusion.
I guess it's obvious we'd be buying back stock if we didn't think that.
Since we do not have any further questions I will now turn the call back to David for a few comments.
Thank you Carla.
Let me close this morning by acknowledging a colleague of mine who is going to be retiring.
I think many of you know that Marianne Paulsen has been head of our Investor Relations group since we formed CenterPoint 10 years ago.
She's interfaced with most of the people on this call.
Some more frequently than others but I know you've all talked to her and her staff.
Marianne has done a simply an outstanding job for the company.
She's a wonderful representative of the company.
And as you know she's the consummate IR professional.
And of course she's always sought to answer all of your questions as clearly and as frankly as possible.
And in our early days just explaining some of the nomenclature was a challenge.
You remember the ECOM days in those days not very much fun.
We're going to miss Marianne a lot here at CenterPoint.
And I know you'll all join me in wishing Marianne a wonderful retirement as she relocates to Florida with her husband.
Marianne thank you for your dedicated service to the company and for being such a good friend to all of us.
With that I want to thank everybody for participating today.
We appreciate your support very much.
Have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
[Operator Instructions].
I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you very much Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
This is Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations for CenterPoint Energy.
I'd like to welcome you to our Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO; Scott Prochazka Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Greg Harper Senior Vice President and Group President of Pipelines and Field Services will discuss our third quarter 2012 results.
We also have other members of management with us who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q filed earlier today are posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through Thursday November 14 6:00 p.m.
Central Time.
To access the replay please call (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 30496727.
You can also listen to an online replay on our website and we will archive the call for at least one year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David.
Thank you Carla.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning I will discuss our consolidated results for the third quarter of 2012.
Gary will discuss 2 unusual amount cash items recorded this quarter as well as some recent financing activities.
Scott will comment on the performance of each business unit.
And finally Greg will discuss certain aspects of our Field Services business.
This morning we reported net income of $10 million or $0.02 per diluted share.
The results for the third quarter of 2012 include 2 unusual items.
First a $252 million noncash goodwill impairment charge associated with our competitive Energy Services business.
And second a $136 million noncash pretax gain associated with our purchase of the remaining 50% interest in the Waskom gathering and processing joint venture.
Excluding these unusual items net income for the third quarter of 2012 would have been $174 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
Net income for the third quarter of 2011 was $973 million or $2.27 per diluted share.
As you may recall last year we also recorded an unusual item.
Net income of $811 million associated with the final  resolution of the true-up appeal.
Excluding this unusual item net income would have been $162 million or $0.38 per diluted share.
Operating income for the third quarter was $88 million.
Excluding unusual items operating income for the third quarter would have been $340 million compared to $357 million for the same period last year.
As you will hear in a few minutes from Scott our businesses delivered solid performances this quarter in line with our expectations.
Our regulated electric and gas distribution utilities produced strong results and despite the low natural gas prices and the lack of basis differentials our midstream and competitive Energy Services businesses performed well.
I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Today I would first like to discuss the 2 unusual items that are included in our results for the third quarter.
Then I will review our debt refinancing earnings guidance and dividend declaration.
The $252 million noncash impairment charge relates to the goodwill resulting from the 1997 merger between Houston Industries and NorAm Energy.
$335 million of that goodwill was associated with our competitive Energy Services business.
In the third quarter of each year we perform a goodwill impairment test.
The adverse wholesale market conditions facing our Energy Services business specifically the prospects for continued low geographic and seasonal price differentials led to a reduction in our estimate of the fair value of goodwill associated with this business.
No other business unit required a goodwill impairment charge.
We also recorded a $136 million noncash gain as a result of our acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in the Waskom joint venture.
This acquisition is classified as a business combination achieved in stages requiring a writeup of our original 50% interest to fair value.
Turning to our financing activities during the quarter.
We took advantage of very low interest rates and refinanced some of our debt.
Specifically Houston Electric issued $800 million of general mortgage bonds at attractive rates and redeemed $800 million of Houston Electric general mortgage bonds scheduled to mature in 2014.
The redemption premium on the 2 series was approximately $69 million and this refinancing will reduce our annual interest payments by approximately $28 million.
Now let me discuss our 2012 earnings guidance.
This morning in our press release we reaffirmed our second quarter estimate for annual earnings in the range of $1.13 to $1.23 per diluted share.
Our guidance excludes the effects of the goodwill impairment charge and the Waskom acquisition gain.
As a reminder our earnings guidance range is based on our performance to date and includes a number of variables such as commodity prices volume throughput weather regulatory proceeding and our effective tax rate.
I'd also like to remind you of the $0.2025 per share regular dividend declared by our Board of Directors on October 24.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence the Board of Directors has in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Now let me turn the call over to Scott who will discuss the quarterly results of our businesses in more detail.
Thank you Gary and good morning to everyone.
I'll begin with Houston Electric which reported operating income of $205 million this quarter or $8 million less than the third quarter of 2011 which included the benefits of extremely hot and dry summer weather.
This year's operating income benefited from the growth of more than 40 000 customers since the third quarter of last year.
This represents a growth rate of 2% which we believe should continue for the remainder of the year.
We also benefited from higher transmission-related revenue the ongoing recognition of deferred equity returns associated with the company's true-up proceeds and an increase in miscellaneous revenues.
More than offsetting these benefits however were a $38 million impact from the return to more normal weather and a $9 million impact from the rate changes implemented in September of 2011.
Overall Houston Electric had a strong quarter and is expected to have another good year.
To address the growing infrastructure needs of the Houston service territory we expect to invest capital in excess of $500 million per year for the next several years resulting in rate base growth of approximately 4% per year.
Given our transmission and distribution capital recovery mechanisms we don't anticipate the need for a major Houston Electric rate case in the near term.
Our natural gas distribution business reported $5 million of operating income in the third quarter of 2012 which was $7 million more than last year.
This quarter benefited from the growth of more than 31 000 customers since the third quarter of last year.
Additionally we have been focused on productivity gains and operating efficiencies to offset the impact of an extremely mild winter.
We have seen the benefit of these efforts and expect to see similar benefits for the remainder of the year.
Annual rate adjustment mechanisms in a number of our jurisdictions continue to help us recover new investments as well as to offset reductions in usage without the need for expensive and time-consuming rate proceedings.
We are also benefiting from increased customer charges in our Texas jurisdictions.
We continue to focus on system reliability by replacing older infrastructure and on upgrading our systems to enhance customer service.
These investments together with normal load growth and system maintenance are expected to require capital expenditures of $350 million to $400 million annually and produce rate base growth of approximately 6% per year.
Now let me turn to our midstream businesses.
Our interstate pipelines unit recorded operating income of $48 million compared to $60 million for the same quarter of 2011.
The decline was primarily the result of reductions in seasonal and market-sensitive transportation and ancillary services and a reduction in compressor efficiency on our Carthage to Perryville pipeline due to lower volumes.
Low natural gas prices and significantly compressed basis continue to adversely impact this business.
Equity income from SESH our joint venture with Spectra was $8 million compared to $6 million in the same quarter of 2011 reflecting the benefit of a new contract with an anchor shipper that started in January of this year.
From a commercial perspective we continue to pursue opportunities to serve customers on or near our pipelines with particular focus on power generation and natural gas producers.
In addition we continue to evaluate the current rates and rate structures for our 2 interstate pipelines.
In August Mississippi River Transmission filed its first rate case since 2001 and requested a $47 million rate increase.
Our filing is based on an updated cost of service including new depreciation rates a capital structure composed of 61% equity and a 13.6% return on equity.
We also sought a recovery compliance cost surcharge to recover future security safety and environmental costs associated with mandated requirements.
In September the FERC issued an order accepting MRT's filing suspending the filed tariff rates until March of 2013 and limiting the scope of the surcharge to the recovery of security costs.
MRT has asked for a rehearing on the surcharge issues.
Unless we reach a settlement on the rate case we expect the third quarter 2013 hearing.
In October we also initiated discussions with customers for a new tariff structure on our CEGT pipeline.
These discussions centered around an updated cost of service and the mechanism for recovering increased costs associated with security safety and environmental activities similar to the mechanism we requested in our MRT rate filing.
Turning now to our Field Services unit.
We reported operating income of $55 million compared to $61 million for the same quarter of 2011.
Operating income benefited by $7 million from the Amoruso and Prism acquisitions.
These benefits were offset by lower revenues from sales of retained natural gas due to lower prices reduced throughput from our traditional basins and the timing of revenue recognition related to throughput commitments.
These throughput commitments are an important feature of our contracts and Greg will discuss them in greater detail later in the call.
With respect to our gathering volumes throughput increased approximately 7% compared to the third quarter of last year.
We expect our overall system throughput to average around 2.4 billion cubic feet per day through year-end including approximately 200 million cubic feet per day from our recent acquisitions.
Our competitive Energy Services business reported an operating loss of $7 million excluding the goodwill impairment discussed -- impairment charge discussed by Gary as compared to an operating loss of $10 million in the same quarter of last year.
After adjusting for mark-to-market accounting and gas inventory write-downs results for the third quarter of 2012 increased $11 million compared to the third quarter of 2011.
This business is benefiting from the elimination of uneconomic fixed cost transportation and storage agreements and the growth in both retail customers and sales volumes.
Our focus continues to be on expanding our customer base rationalizing our fixed costs and growing our product and service offerings.
In summary our business units delivered solid operating and financial results.
And the benefits of our balanced electric and gas portfolio were again evident this quarter.
I will now turn the call over to Greg.
Thank you Scott.
I want to take this opportunity to provide some additional information about our Field Service business.
Specifically we continue to get questions on our throughput commitments and recent acquisitions.
Field Services provides gathering treating processing and other related services to producers in and around their traditional natural gas production basins of Arkoma Anadarko and ArkLaTex as well as in the unconventional shale plays of Fayetteville Haynesville and Woodford.
We operate 4 000 miles of gathering pipelines processing plants with a capacity of 625 million cubic feet per day and treating plants with a capacity of approximately 9 000 gallons per minute.
Today about 40% of our volumes come from traditional gathering basins while 60% are from the shale plays.
These percentages are inclusive of the recent acquisitions which we consider in the traditional category.
Commercial and operating initiatives evolve with market dynamics and customer requests.
We strive to revive best-in-market services especially when it comes to being on time and on budget.
Our track record combined with our focus on building strong relationships serves us well as projects emerge.
Generally our Field Services business seeks unlevered after-tax returns on investment in the low- to mid-teens.
While other gatherers may seek higher returns our contracting strategies mitigate project risk with longer terms of 10 to 15 years and throughput commitments or guaranteed returns especially on large capital projects.
Of course without these mitigants we would require higher returns.
However we find that our customers value price assurance and market access certainty provided by our contracting strategies.
In turn we benefit from more stable revenues and cash flows.
Without this throughput commitment strategy we would be recognizing less revenue this year.
Now let me discuss how throughput commitments can affect the timing of revenue recognition.
Throughout the year producer production reports and actual volumes are closely monitored to ensure that revenue is recognized in accordance with contract terms and throughput commitments.
First contract years are usually not the same as calendar years.
Second we recognize revenue based on both actual and projected flows.
If a producer report indicates that production will not meet the throughput commitment in a particular contract year we calculate the amount of revenue associated with the actual production and the amount of payable under the throughput commitment for the applicable calendar quarter.
Shortfall throughput volumes and retained gas are not included in throughput data which we provide as part of our supplemental financial materials.
As a rule of thumb we have previously stated a good rule of thumb is that retained gas is equal to about 1.5% of throughput.
However we have and can realize levels at or above 2% based on concerted optimization efforts.
Following our recent acquisitions we now own 100% of the Waskom gas processing plant in East Texas.
This facility is capable of processing approximately 320 million cubic feet per day of natural gas.
It also includes a 14 500-barrel per day fractionation plant in an ethane line which directly serves a major market.
Waskom provides several takeaway options for natural gas including our CEGT pipeline and our Carthage to Perryville pipeline.
Furthermore the rail loading facility that was completed in late 2011 provides customers optionality and increased access to premium natural gas liquids markets.
We are 2 months into our integration of all the Prism assets and are beginning to implement changes to optimize certain operations at these facilities.
From a risk standpoint we mitigate commodity exposure through our contracting methods.
On the liquid side our commodity-sensitive contracts account for about 35% of all of our processing revenue.
However we have the option to change the majority of these contracts to fix these structures if we so choose.
Finally we are pursuing a number of potential Field Services projects in the Bakken Mississippi Lime Tuscaloosa Marine and other place in or near our footprint.
Clearly we would like to be in a position to discuss these more completely.
However we're still in the discussion evaluation and/or negotiation phase and are not able to give more details at this time.
We can say that the Bakken survey and right-of-way assessment have been completed and we're finalizing our estimates of the capital requirements for this project.
Now I'll turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Greg.
Last month we celebrated our 10th anniversary as a stand-alone independent public company.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our employees who have been so instrumental in the success of our company.
I couldn't be more proud of them.
Our balanced portfolio of electric and natural gas businesses has served us well and we expect that to continue.
Our business performance and execution have allowed us to grow significantly and have put us in a strong position as we pursue attractive opportunities.
I feel better today about the position of CenterPoint Energy than at any time during our 10-year history.
Once again I would like to thank you for your interest in interest CenterPoint Energy.
We will now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gary could you update us in terms of what you would define as your excess cash position at this point? Yes we're between $500 million and $600 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $500 million and $600 million.
And when you look at the deployment of that cash and I know the Bakken project has been one of the front burner ones.
From a timing perspective is it -- should we expect that we could see some returns on any of that investment in 2013? Or is it more likely 2014 and beyond when we -- the earliest when we would see returns? Let me take that question.
As you know last call I indicated that I thought we would deploy all of this cash by the end of next year.
So we're going to deploy it either in our core businesses and we have plenty of organic growth in especially our utilities and some in our other businesses as well.
But we also are attempting and working hard to try to invest in some new opportunities outside our core businesses.
I think there's a chance  some of that could be reflected in late 2013 but most likely it's a 2014 kind of operating income impact.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And David one other thing.
If I look at your Field Services business just looking at the existing portfolio and not tackling in any new projects or investment this current portfolio what kind of annual growth rate can this support? It really depends on natural gas prices.
As gas prices increase I think we're going to see more growth prospects.
We serve traditional basis -- basins as well as dry gas basins.
At this low gas price we're not seeing a lot of well activity.
Probably well activity this year is about half or maybe even a little less than half of what we saw last year.
But we also know there is a heck of a lot of gas in these basins and it will ultimately be produced.
So as gas prices move up I think we're going to see activity which is going to drive just gathering volumes and expansions of this system.
But just -- not just as importantly but there is another aspect and that's our retained gas piece.
As Greg said we retain about 1.5% and 2% if we can really optimize compression.
That provides upside as natural gas prices rise as well.
And so I think we'll see it on the natural gas sales retained gas as well as just throughput in our system.
That's going to be a little further down the road because we know that gas prices aren't expected at least in our forecast to jump above $4 for a year or two.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And last question Gary just to clarify.
The effective tax rate if you take out all the non-recurring stuff what was that for the quarter and what are you budgeting for the year? Okay yes.
If you exclude the unusual items for the third quarter our effective tax rate for the third quarter would have been about 24%.
That compares Ali to a run rate of 37% effective tax rate.
We did in the third quarter benefit from approximately $17 million of favorable IRS settlements.
But for the fourth quarter and on think about 37%.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital Markets.
Greg just a couple of quick questions.
And understanding there's only limited you can say about the Bakken we're narrowing the cost.
Previously I think you sort of ring fenced it in sort of $100 million to $200 million range with larger long-term aspirations.
Are we still in the same ZIP code? I mean is the general scope of the project essentially still the same? That's correct Carl.
I'd say it's still in that $100 million $200 million range.
Our producer customer is also still confirming what their production profiles look like.
And as they get more optimistic about it obviously the capital would be on the higher end.
But if it stays where it is right now it'd be on the lower $100 million to $150 million end.
But if they hit things as they would like to see it'd be on the upper end.
Okay.
No fair enough.
And then if I could just ask you to -- and appreciate you got the organic projects Bakken Mississippi Lime et cetera.
What about from an M&amp;A standpoint have you seen any -- a change in producer sentiment over the last 3 months say for instance from the 3 months prior as far as their willingness to divest given that the choppiness of commodity prices? Or is it pretty much just kind of the same as it's been through the year? No I would say that -- it's a good question because I think the producer activity is still there.
I think some of the things that are on the market with the particular producers that are putting them on the market aren't necessarily in what we would consider areas that we would want to pursue or on a contracting strategy that we want to pursue or they would be willing to commit to.
The Encana opportunity in Amoruso was a really nice opportunity because they were willing to commit to a volume commitment.
Some of the things we are seeing on the market today a shipper producer is not necessarily willing to do that.
Okay.
And then maybe just sort of a last question.
This is maybe more for clarification and throw it open to David Scott or Gary.
But as we look at the noncash goodwill impairment charge to the marketing was that all due to one transaction? I'm just -- I can't recall when that type of dollars were deployed in the commercial services.
I'm sorry I just didn't do what that stemmed back to? Well that goes back as I mentioned in my prepared remarks Carl to the acquisition that Reliant had of NorAm Energy back in 1997.
And the goodwill associated with that acquisition a portion of it was allocated to our CES business our commercial energy -- Competitive Energy Services business.
And based on today's economics we have to look at of course in each year the potential of an impairment.
And that's what really I described is we looked at that which is on an income basis we looked at the projected cash flows of that business based on the dynamics of the marketplace discount those back and effectively found that this goodwill that was $335 million was impaired.
We valued it now at $83 million and the $252 million is the write off of that.
So it's noncash and as I mentioned no other business was impacted.
That was just around CES and it's all the things you know about and others really driven by the market dynamics and...
Sure no.
I appreciate that I'd missed the first 5 minutes so all you had to do is say NorAm.
I appreciate the color.
I wasn't here then either.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> A couple -- just a couple of small questions.
You mentioned the better results in gas distribution from non-annual rates but also customer growth.
Can you elaborate a little bit more where that customer growth is coming from? Yes.
We've seen customer growth I think in the order of about 1% kind of on a year-over-year.
And the split in customers is probably very heavily Texas with a little bit in Minnesota.
It's probably the mix.
But it's the 31 000 that we've seen that addition that's driving that 1% increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And then on the increase in customers at the competitive natural gas business up 17% over the last year what's driving that? Yes so the drivers behind that is a transaction a purchase we had made of a book of customers that was a key part of it as well as just the ongoing organic efforts of the team to add customers where we currently serve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that book of customers you bought is that -- would you say that that is -- that that book has been incrementally more profitable to the business and so it's offsetting kind of the underlying assets? Or is it kind of similar margins to the business you had before? I'd say it's similar margins to the business that we've had before.
So it was a good -- it was a good  addition in terms of extending the quality of the retail business but it was very -- it's very  similar to what we currently have in place.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then on the midstream business can you give us a little bit more of a breakdown on the volumes in terms the legacy volume declines versus the new volumes you've hooked up to the business and what were the underlying declines in the legacy volumes? I think what Scott mentioned we were at 60% on the shale volumes and about 40% on the traditional basins volumes on those billable or throughput reported numbers in the call.
I think or we have definitely seen a continued uptick in our year-over-year volumes in definitely the Haynesville and North Louisiana volumes.
While not as great as we had anticipated they are still growing.
And the traditional basins excluding our recent acquisition I'd say would be down slightly.
Research Division</strong> When you say down slightly does that -- are you seeing 5% declines 2% declines 10% declines? Yes I'd say it's been averaging or fluctuating between 5% to 10%.
[Operator Instructions] Sarah as we do not have any other questions we will end the call for today.
Thank you everyone very much for participating.
We appreciate your support.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you very much Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
This is Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Welcome you to our Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; Scott Prochazka Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2012 results and provide highlights on other key activities.
We also have other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release Form 10-K and supplemental materials are posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
Supplemental materials are for informational purposes and we will not be referring to them during the prepared remarks.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through Wednesday March 6.
To access the replay please call (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 71670374.
You can also listen to an online replay on our website and we will archive the call for at least 1 year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David.
Thank you Carla.
And good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning we reported full year earnings of $417 million or $0.97 per diluted share as compared to $1.36 billion or $3.17 per diluted share in 2011.
I'd like to remind you of the unusual items that occurred during each year.
In 2012 we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge as well as a non-cash pretax gain from an acquisition.
In 2011 we recorded the results of the final resolution of our true-up appeal.
Excluding the effects of these unusual items net income for 2012 would have been $581 million or $1.35 per diluted share compared to $546 million or $1.27 per diluted share in 2011.
Using the same basis that we use when providing guidance full year adjusted earnings would have been $1.25 per diluted share in 2012 compared to $1.20 for 2011.
Our regulated electric and gas utilities benefited from strong service territories timely rate recovery mechanisms and effective expense management.
Our Midstream and Energy Services businesses performed well given the current market environment of low natural gas prices and minimal geographic price differentials.
Our financial results once again highlight the strength of our balanced energy delivery portfolio.
We are looking forward to another good year in 2013.
We are stronger financially than we've ever been and have good investment opportunities across all of our businesses.
Last year we celebrated our 10th anniversary as a standalone independent public company.
When we first became CenterPoint Energy we indicated we would focus on domestic energy delivery with a balanced portfolio of electric and natural gas businesses.
Further we committed to building a company that provides a competitive dividend with growth.
10 years later we are proud of our accomplishments and remain committed to these objectives.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the employees who have made the past 10 years a success.
I am very proud that our employees stayed focused on and believed in the vision values and strategy that have come to define us.
Without their hard work and dedication we would not be where we are today.
Now I'll ask Scott Prochazka our Chief Operating Officer to update you on our business unit performance and our expectations for 2013.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
I will start with our largest business Houston Electric which had a good year.
Core operating income was $492 million compared to $496 million in 2011.
The modest decline was due to more normal weather when compared to the extreme heat we experienced in the prior year as well as the adverse effects from new rates implemented in September of 2011.
These impacts were almost entirely offset by a number of positive factors including a continued strong Houston economy marked by the addition of more than 44 000 new metered customers ongoing recognition of deferred equity returns associated with the company's true-up proceeds and decreased labor and benefit costs.
Right-of-way revenues approached $27 million which is substantially above historical levels of $2 million to $3 million per year.
The increased interest in our right-of-way easements is another sign of the strong economic activity in Houston.
Our gas LDCs also had a good year.
Operating income in 2012 was equal to that of 2011 at $226 million despite record mild temperatures in the first quarter of 2012.
Over the year weather negatively impacted this unit by about $47 million compared to the prior year.
We were able to mitigate approximately $26 million of the weather impact through our use of a financial hedge and weather normalization rate adjustments.
We were able to offset the remaining weather effects through reduced operations and maintenance expenses lower bad debt expense the addition of more than 22 000 customers and the effects of other rate adjustments.
Now let me turn to our midstream businesses.
Our Interstate Pipelines achieved operating results including equity income from SESH of $233 million last year down from $269 million the previous year.
The decline was due to a backhaul contract that expired during 2011 as well as the associated reduction in compressor efficiency on our Carthage to Perryville pipeline.
Other factors included low commodity prices and significantly compressed basis which contributed to lower off-system transportation revenues lower seasonal and market-sensitive transportation contracts and reduced ancillary services.
Equity income from SESH was $26 million for 2012 compared to $21 million the previous year.
This increase reflects the full year benefit of a restructured long-term agreement with an existing anchor shipper.
Our Field Services unit had a strong year.
Full year operating income was $214 million compared to $189 million the previous year.
This improvement was driven by increased margins from gathering projects guaranteed returns and throughput commitments in our contracts and acquisitions made in 2012.
Our total gathering throughput increased approximately 9% compared to the previous year.
These benefits were partially offset by the lower contribution of sales from retained gas as a result of lower commodity prices.
Our final segment is our Competitive Gas Sales and Services business.
Setting aside the goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter this business performed better in 2012 as compared to the prior year.
In 2012 we continued to adapt this business to new market realities by focusing on retail commercial and industrial customers.
This business is benefiting from a strategic reduction of uneconomic fixed cost transportation and storage agreements as well as a 14% increase in our customer base.
Now I would like to discuss 2013 and give you some insight into each business unit's prospects.
Houston Electric is fortunate to have a robust and growing service territory.
We estimate that annual customer growth will continue at around 2%.
This level of growth should add approximately $25 million in base revenues.
We expect 2013 revenue from right-of-way to remain above historical levels.
You may recall that we recognized all revenue from these leases in the year each agreement is signed.
Future right-of-way revenues will depend on subsequent economic activity in our service territory particularly around the Houston Ship Channel.
This year we expect our capital investment in this business will exceed $700 million.
Future capital expenditures are expected to range between $500 million and $700 million annually and produce annual average rate base growth of approximately 5%.
This capital will be used to help improve service reliability and system resiliency upgrade our systems to enhance customer service and support normal load growth and system maintenance.
Our vibrant service territory and rate recovery mechanisms should allow us to earn our authorized rate of return the next several years.
Turning now to our gas operations group.
We expect 2013 to be another good year.
We will continue to execute our strategy of improving operational efficiency as well as implementing new and innovative rate mechanisms.
A number of our jurisdictions now have annual mechanisms which provide more timely recovery of capital investment or adjust for deviations from normal weather or both.
In addition some jurisdictions have adopted rate designs that decouple the recovery of our revenue requirements from the volumes of gas sales.
These mechanisms are a more efficient form of regulation that emphasizes audit-based procedures and requires less expensive and time-consuming litigation.
In 2012 revenue increased approximately $37 million as a result of the successful implementation of this rate strategy.
In this business we anticipate investing on average $400 million of capital per year over the next 5 years much of which we expect to recover through annual mechanisms.
Capital investment will be primarily for growth system modernization and safety-related infrastructure which results in annual average rate base growth of approximately 7%.
Switching to Interstate Pipelines.
Low natural gas prices and compressed basis differentials are expected to continue to impact this business.
We anticipate the third and fourth quarter of 2012 results to represent a more normalized performance level in this environment.
Our pipelines capital budget for 2013 is approximately $200 million and will be used primarily for pipeline maintenance line replacements and pipeline safety and integrity projects.
Our pipelines remain highly subscribed at around 95%.
Nearly 40% of our contracted demand is to serve the LDC and industrial load near our pipelines.
As we have indicated in the past we are seeking rate adjustments for our MRT and CEGT pipeline and are continuing customer settlement discussions.
From a market perspective while a construction of a large expansion in our footprint is less likely given current market conditions we do see interest in expanding services to our producer customers in the form supply laterals and of course we continue to pursue market opportunities on or near our pipelines with particular focus on power generation load.
Moving to our Field Services business.
In 2013 we expect to see continued opportunities to expand our geographic footprint and service offerings.
On February 19 we announced a binding open season to develop and operate a crude oil gathering system in North Dakota's liquid-rich Bakken shale.
The open season will remain active through March 29 and our expectation is that we will have signed an agreement with a major producer by that time.
Our Field Services capital budget for 2013 is approximately $270 million with more than 3/4 allocated to growth projects.
We will continue to look for other growth opportunities both in and outside of our current footprint.
Natural gas gathering volumes averaged about 2.5 billion cubic feet per day in 2012.
While we have seen some recent announcements of increased rig counts in dry gas areas we expect our volumes to remain at these levels in 2013.
Given lower commodity prices we continue to see the benefit of our contracting strategy of throughput commitments and guaranteed rates of return.
Although we increased our processing activity through acquisitions today it represents less than 15% of our overall margin contribution within Field Services.
Further 50% to 60% of that processing capability is volumetric based fee -- or volumetric fee-based and not subject to commodity risks.
As a rule of thumb we estimate that our sensitivity to changes in the price of natural gas liquids is approximately $3 million in revenue for every $0.10 change in natural gas liquids pricing.
Finally our Competitive Gas Sales and Services business will continue to focus on expanding its customer base reducing fixed costs and growing product and service offerings.
We expect 2013 performance to be an improvement over 2012.
Reflecting on our 2012 performance I'm pleased with the results we achieved.
I'm optimistic about our prospects for 2013 and we will work diligently to ensure our businesses perform as expected.
Further we will continue to look for opportunities to invest where we believe we can create value for our shareholders.
I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Scott and good morning to everyone.
As David mentioned in his remarks we are very pleased to have celebrated our 10-year anniversary at CenterPoint Energy.
As you all know at the formation of our company in October of 2002 we were very highly leveraged with limited financial flexibility.
However since that time we have worked diligently to recapitalize our company and today we have a strong balance sheet and solid investment grade credit ratings.
The 2013 capital plan as Scott discussed totals approximately $1.7 billion.
Our cash on hand internally generated cash and other liquidity sources will fund this capital plan.
In addition to ensure we align the Houston Electric capital structure to the capital structure approved in its last rate proceedings our 2013 financing plan will include the repayment of $450 million of maturing debt at Houston Electric in March of this year.
Now I'd like to discuss our earnings guidance for 2013.
This morning in our earnings release we announced guidance in the range of $1.22 to $1.30 per diluted share.
This guidance range takes into consideration a number of economic and operational variables that may impact our actual 2013 earnings performance.
The most significant variables we consider for our annual guidance are commodity prices volume throughput weather regulatory proceedings and our effective tax rate and we have developed our guidance range by using a combination of these variables.
We have assumed natural gas pricing in 2013 of approximately $3.50 per MMBtu and $0.95 per gallon for our mix of natural gas liquids.
In addition we have assumed a return to a more normal effective tax rate of approximately 37% an average share count of approximately 430 million as well as lower interest expense.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
Finally I'd like to remind you of the $0.2075 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on January 25.
This marks the 8th consecutive year that we have increased our dividend.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence of management and the Board of Directors in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Now let me thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint Energy and I will turn the call back over to Carla.
Thank you Gary.
[Operator Instructions] Sarah would you please give the instructions? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
First question and don't want to read too much into this but just noticed that in the guidance for 2013 you guys are putting out an $0.08 spread versus I think what we started with this time last year with maybe a wider $0.12 spread and again I hesitate to read into that but I didn't know if there was any implication of either more certitude or less variability around your planning process and I didn't know if there was any color on that? Carl I wouldn't read much into that.
As you might recall last year when we started the year we had a much wider -- we had a natural gas price that was much more in flux.
We were assuming something in our price end [ph] a little less than $4 and it was $2.50 at the time we had our call.
So I think that's part of it.
But generally I wouldn't read much at all into that entire spread.
Okay.
And just a second question here and it really speaks to the gas utility with the earnings power.
I think historically we had been thinking of the normalized earnings power of the gas utility in the maybe $200 million $220 million range.
And so here you guys had a really nice year considering that there was $25 million of still weather impact.
And so I guess the question is do you think the great O&amp; -- expense management that you had for this year is that sustainable? Meaning that have we in effect lifted the new normal earnings power for this segment up in the $250 million range? Carl first I think we have lifted it some.
I think you're right but I'm going to ask Scott to address the O&amp;M side of this.
Yes.
I think some of the O&amp;M is sustainable I wouldn't say all of it knowing that we started the year in such a hole with the weather we looked at where we could defer some of the O&amp;M and so some of that will move out into the future.
But there are some improvements that we made that would be sustainable.
The other point I would probably add here is that we did pretty well on our bad debt expense and as gas prices grow even if we stay at a fairly competitive or aggressive low rate in terms of our write-offs as gas prices increase which we have in our forecast going forward that number will naturally increase.
So there will be some degradation in terms of having more bad debt expense on a go-forward basis.
Understood.
And sorry one clarification is the CapEx that you mentioned for Field Services does that include the Bakken project? It does.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could explain to me the mechanics of the weather hedge on the natural gas? And I guess specifically is that something that you eventually have to share with customers that $8 million benefit in 2012? Scott you want to take that? Yes.
So the mechanics of this are we calculate the -- or determine what we believe the value of heating degree days are and we can hedge against those with a third-party such that if we -- if it goes one way there is payment to the party and if it goes the other way then the party pays us.
So it's kind of a swap structure.
But it's geared around calculation of normal weather and a determination of what the value of each heating degree day is within the regions which we carry these in.
As far as weather this ends up getting shared we hold these hedges at corporate and we do this really to target kind of stabilizing the earnings.
So some year it's up some year it's down.
But it's geared around stabilizing the earnings in that unit.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David or Gary for those of us who have been keeping track of the excess cash balance and you guys have been keeping us up-to-date on that as well.
As I recall you indicated at the end of the last quarter that excess cash balance was $600 million can you update us on what that number is as of the end of the year? And also where we stand in terms of deploying that for new projects? Ali it's about $500 million give or take.
That varies depending on when we pay our gas bills but it's about $500 million.
As Gary said we have $1.7 billion CapEx in front of us.
It's a large capital program cutting across all our businesses and we're going to be using this money to fund those projects as well as any new growth projects that have not been identified but that we're pursuing.
So I would say that by the end of this year we're going to come close to spending most of that cash if not all of it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly in terms of spending the cash clearly the focus has historically been on the Field Services area and the Bakken project seems to be going forward.
At the same time you've also been pretty clear and open about your interest in Oncor.
And so I wanted to just understand where the focus remains in terms of at least opportunities right now and whether the financial issues going on with energy futures holdings does that cause the Oncor monetization to become more front burner or are you seeing any activity on that front? First we're still interested in growing Field Services it's a big focus of ours.
But it's not at the -- it's not exclusively Field Services.
We are very interested in growing our regulated businesses.
And so we've said in the past if Oncor would come on the market it'd be a unit that we'd absolutely look at.
But it's not stopping us from doing what we would normally do anyway.
So yes we're interested but we're pursuing a number of different options and it's just not Oncor.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> One last question Gary just to clarify the '13 guidance at the EPS level it's pretty relatively flat with '12 and when you were going through the segment discussions looked like you were net-net higher so is it all the higher tax rate that's causing flat EPS or can you just give us a little more color on why flat versus the '12 actual? Yes.
I'll take a shot at that first and certainly Scott can add to it.
But let's talk about the tax rate I think that is an important thing to focus on.
The ongoing tax rate will be 37%.
If you recall last year we ended up with a 45% tax rate because that had that non-tax deductible goodwill impairment.
So you take that out we ended it with a tax rate of approximately 33%.
And that was really due to a lot of hard work over the last number of years to resolve issues with IRS mainly legacy issues so we did have a benefit in tax in fact some of it actually was reported in other income.
So we had a benefit of approximately $0.09 all-in if you will.
So that's kind of come back.
So we effectively have a higher tax rate this year so the guidance reflects our expectations of a higher tax rate this year.
Now in addition to that though we do expect lower interest expense because as you know we have been recapitalizing the company in a sense of some refunding but primarily some restructuring of debt so you continue lower interest expense.
This year it was lower by about $34 million.
Next year think a maybe equivalent number maybe a little bit more than that so that's favorable to us.
So that's some offset.
And then the business you heard Scott describe the businesses.
Over the long term they will grow.
He described those as sort of net neutral to up a bit I think when you put it all together.
So again we still have a range because we still have some variables.
And as you know our objective is always -- we'll a keep you informed but our goal is to work as hard as we can to exceed the midpoint of that range and continue to grow our company this year.
Your next question comes from the line of John Edwards with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick question.
Going forward given how the Competitive Natural Gas Sales and Services came in pretty significant increase what's a reasonable run rate to think about for that segment going forward? Good question John.
We used to say we thought the pure retail side of this was in the $30 million range.
I think long term it is.
Probably in the near term it's more in the $20 million range.
So we're working hard to improve the profitability there.
We've gotten rid of a lot of the uneconomic contracts which helps a lot but the key is to grow the business and improve margins and that's what we're attempting to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just real quick on your natural gas distribution.
It obviously was a really good quarter and the margin per customer was up quite a bit versus what we were thinking.
Just maybe you could give a little more granularity on that? I mean you've already talked about some things cost savings and rates and so on if there's any other things in that regard? Scott do you have anything to add there? Bad debt expense has been something that we've been working on for several years.
As Scott said that may tick up.
But the new policies and procedures around credit and collections are not going to change.
So I think we've got a good handle on that.
We're running a pretty tight ship now.
It's taken us 3 or 4 years to completely kind of revamp the way we run that business and I think it's showing in through the reduced O&amp;M.
But we do have a lot of new rate mechanisms that's gone in over the last 3 or 4 years that provides for annual or automatic adjustments so we don't have to go in and seek rate increases.
And I think those are important and they're starting to have a very positive effect on this business.
I'll just add to that as well the couple other things that -- one of the bigger items that was -- if you're just looking at the quarter against prior quarter it was around weather and usage.
Between the 2 of those they were up $6 million to $8 million over the prior quarter so that was a good part of the delta.
Your next question comes from the line of Faisel Khan with Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could give us a little bit more detail on the Bakken project.
I see the open season and I guess it's for both gathering and pipeline takeaway capacity for I guess crude oil liquids and natural gas but if you can go to a little bit more granularity in terms of what the open season encompasses that'd be great.
Yes.
Let me ask Greg Harper to address that.
Faisel the open season is primarily for a crude gathering system and it would have a little tank storage potential as well.
It does not contemplate takeaway pipelines from those gathering termination point.
We will be putting it into rail or other pipeline is the contemplation at this time.
So this is strictly a gathering system so taking crude oil from wellhead to central control points and then onto tankage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if our numbers are right there's about I think about 75% of the crude oil in the Bakken is gathered by truck right now is that a fair estimate? Is that the business you're going after? Exactly.
You've nailed it right on the head Faisel.
This is a great opportunity to number one help the state get those trucks off the road and we think it's a competitive opportunity and alternative right now for the producers in this area.
I think you'll also see this type of crude gathering system being employed in other areas around the country.
Because of the amount of trucks necessary to move this there's lots of wanting to get an alternative to trucking and this is the best alternative honestly.
Definitely.
There's been a paradigm shift with the number of trucks that Dave mentioned is the kind of result of the prolific nature of the crude level coming on from the drilling and the frac-ing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then it would -- I could take it also that in this gathering system you would tie in the associated gas production that's being flared into the system too is that right? That's not contemplated in this particular offering it would be something that we would be prepared to do obviously having a footprint in that area if we get the appropriate nominations.
Research Division</strong> And so how do you guys compete versus everybody else? Like what's the competitive landscape like for in the Bakken? I would assume it's pretty competitive but I don't know how you guys go about getting the business versus somebody else? I mentioned before Faisel as we step out of our footprint that a key strategy for us was to do it with maybe a major producer friend or companies and that's what we've been trying to do both here in the Bakken as we look at Mississippi Lime as we look at Tuscaloosa Marine as we look at even Marcellus.
We're not the type of company that's going to go out and do something speculative.
We're going to do something that is kind of in concert with a big producer customer and have the similar type contracting we've had in the past in our new gathering footprint.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And whatever happened with the Mississippi Lime open season? That was like in the third -- the first quarter of last year? Good question.
What we found in the Mississippi Lime where we were looking at it is there's a lot of high nitrogen issues.
And we're just not seeing enough gas to gather to offset that issue for it takes to treat it.
Now another major producer that had an RFP out has withdrawn that and that major producer has moved to a different area in Mississippi Lime and is expected to issue an RFP and we will be participating in that.
So ongoing negotiations with smaller customers but again right now the aggregation level that we're seeing doesn't contemplate a project at this point in time but we stay in constant communication with these customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And on the results of Field Services throughput down from $237 million to $205 million but operating income up year-over-year.
Can you just walk us through the math on how that happened? I suspect it's from your newer gathering contracts that are in place but give us an idea of what is declining in the background as we see these volumes sort of come off from current levels? I'll give you a high-level I won't give you exact numbers because I don't want to get into our producers' falling volumes.
But I would say that the difference obviously going from $237 million to $205 million is decline just across the board on our footprint but the makeup obviously the increased margin on the top line I think goes from $91 million to $109 million.
That growth is driven by our contracts.
The guaranteed return contract and primarily the volume commitment contracts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So assuming that volumes -- well let me ask you this do you expect volumes to continue to decline for the rest of this year? We expect volumes to be at the same level as last year.
I don't think David or Scott mentioned in the call but I think they've had some producers moving into our area and back into the Haynesville area Encana announced that on their earnings call with an increase in 5 rigs by year end.
We don't have anything -- we don't have in our plan or in Gary's projections right now that that would increase volume flow.
We see that as protecting and preserving current levels.
If we get upside that's going to be great.
Faisel I might also add.
I think in '12 we lost something like $28 million due to lower commodity prices primarily natural gas.
So we've got some upside if natural gas prices firm up and they're probably going to -- our projection is they'll be higher in '13 than they were in '12.
So even if you get the same volumes there could be some potential increased profitability there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just on the pipelines you guys mentioned you were 90% subscribed on the pipelines.
Are there any contracts that are up for renewal in the next 24 months that we ought to be concerned about? Well I don't want you to be concerned about anything Faisel.
It's our job to go get those renewed.
But we're -- I think our fleet agreement is in evergreen within the next 24 months.
So that's -- again we serve a fleet via MRT that is the asset that we are currently in the middle of a rate case at FERC on.
And we've had a settlement conference on that.
So we see that that is obviously a very large contract on MRT and we will work to extend that and renegotiate an extend.
On CEGT there is a mishmash of contracts that can come up and roll off but I think the largest contracts on CEGT would be Line CP in 2017 or so.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just last question for me.
On CapEx you guys mentioned I think $1.8 billion in CapEx did you guys give a breakdown in your prepared remarks if you did don't worry about it I'll go back to the transcript but if you didn't I'd appreciate a breakdown of the CapEx.
You know we've got those documented in the 10-K.
Plus if you look at the supplemental material it's laid out there in a fair amount of detail so probably the best way to find it.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Weisel with Macquarie.
Just a couple of questions on CapEx.
First at the electric utility it looks like some pretty big declines after '13 and '14 mostly in this public and system improvements category.
Is a lot of that conservatism it's not related to the load growth so I'm just wondering why it drops and if there's potential upside there? Andrew I'll take that.
There is -- if you noticed some downward movement perhaps there's some conservatism in there but there was also some projects that we have early on that end at that point.
We're putting in a backup control center which consumes about a couple hundred million dollars worth of investment over the near term.
And once that ends that's part of the reason it turns down.
But the theme of kind of maintaining the ongoing investment of -- in infrastructure for hardening and system maintenance as well as load growth that theme would kind of carry through but we'll have to see what actually happens in terms of whether growth picks up or slows down or maintenance requirements change.
But most of it is driven by some big projects that we have that we know we have early on.
You may end up having some additional bigger projects that materialize down the road that could take -- that could fill that gap but right now this larger slug is really related to large projects.
Okay.
So then when you talked about the 5% annual rate base growth should that be front-end loaded? Meaning faster than that in '13 and '14? Well it really looks at the total capital spend over the period.
So if you look at where we get to rate base wise by the end of this period it looks at what that rate would represent an average growth rate from the starting point to the ending point.
It just so happens that it's kind of front-end loaded.
Okay.
Great.
And then on usage I think I heard you say you're expecting 2% growth in customer accounts in 2013.
How has usage per account been trending and what's your expectation for total weather-adjusted load growth? Over the past load growth we saw kind of flat to maybe slightly declining.
This was looking back several years.
Interestingly this year we've seen loads -- we've actually seen usage increase slightly.
We believe it has to do perhaps with the economy and with the economy strengthening here in Houston as well as the relatively low price of power.
So we have seen a little bit of a bounce in usage this year.
Going forward we forecast usage to be about flat.
But we do know that we continue to see what we think will be some ongoing headwind on the downside just from things like replacements of appliances with more efficient -- replacement of air-conditioning units and lighting standards that type of thing.
But more or less we look at it as about even to maybe a slight decline as we look forward.
Okay.
Great.
That's very helpful.
Then next question just on the Field Services CapEx obviously the acquisition was the biggest chunk from 2012 but the other CapEx was quite a bit lower than what you'd expect what you forecasted in the 10-K a year ago.
Just wondering if a lot of that was stuff that has been deferred based on the acquisitions or canceled or how to think about that going forward? And maybe a little more color in 2013 on the Bakken spending you mentioned that is a big piece of the growth and what else might be included in that? This is Greg I'll answer the 2012 question first.
The capital was lower in 2012 and that's primarily from deferrals.
Most of our capital that we look to deploy are based on existing contracts and we're obviously in communication with our producers weekly monthly to make sure we're deploying our capital palatably relative to their growth and they're -- before they bring on their production.
So basically some of them had a forecast early in the year maybe fourth quarter of 2011 what they would be doing in 2012 they've been modifying that during the year and so we just pulled back the capital.
However they're committed to their acreage to us and/or volume commitments to those areas.
So that will come once they start drilling.
As far as 2013 that's the same thing we planned out this year.
I think the Bakken is probably under around $120 million or so $125 million.
So the balance the majority of the balance is still growth capital.
I think Scott mentioned 75% of our capital is growth.
So the remaining 50% to 60% of the balance is growth capital.
And that again is tied into what our producers are telling us right now where they think they'll be by year end.
Great.
Very helpful.
And then just lastly if you can let us know how much operating income came from the acquisitions last summer? And if doubling that would be a good proxy for 2013 and beyond run rate? $13 million for 2012 came from the 2 acquisitions.
That was -- we expect to do better than double that in 2013.
They came on at different times of the year one was August 1 and one was a little bit earlier than that but our plan calls for more than doubling that in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Senchak [ph] with Decade Capital.
Just looks like about 70% of your CapEx spend in '13 is going to the regulated electric and gas distribution segments.
And just as I look out in your CapEx forecast and the K it's roughly the same kind of spread and I'm just wondering is that kind of a change in theme going forward or is that just where the opportunities you see right now exist? This is really -- it's much easier to see the spend in the regulated utilities than site Field Services because we don't speculate about projects that we're not sure of in the 10-K.
But for our Houston Electric and our gas LDCs we have plans to go in and replace pipe or improve systems our bill control center so it's -- we have a lot of clarity around regulated capital expenditures.
When it gets to Field Services we put in there what we know but we don't put in there what we don't know.
I would be very disappointed if we don't have some growth projects that come up in Field Services that would increase the level of expenditures in that unit.
Okay.
Great.
And then in the past you've given us some growth rates for each of the businesses has that changed at all or is that still kind of the same outlook and can you comment on that? We've given overall that we want to be in the 4% to say 7% EPS growth rate that's our long-term.
And each one of our units have a little different growth around it.
Houston Electric gas LDCs you heard Scott talk about rate base growth there of 5% up to 7%.
So they're going to provide some growth.
Pipelines are the ones that probably are little less certain.
That's probably flat to slightly up if we move in some of the projects we're going after.
And Field Services we expect it's going to grow.
It's been our fastest-growing unit the last 3 4 years it's grown a little less than 20% a year.
And as it gets bigger that percentage will come down.
But we expect Field Services to continue to be our fastest-growing business segment.
So overall our goal is to achieve that 4% to 7% or 5% to 7% growth in earnings.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Graham [ph] with Kellinger Capital [ph].
It's actually John Kiani [ph].
I know you talked a little bit about this already but can you just give a little bit more color around some of your plans to allocate capital between Field Services and the regulated Houston? And more specifically talk a little bit about the status of using an MLP as a financing vehicle for some of the projects that you're currently working on like for example the Bakken project within Field Services please? Gary why don't you take that one.
Okay.
John maybe to start why don't we just start with MLP.
We've been consistent on this John as you know in our discussions that we continue to see the formation of the MLP as an effective financing vehicle and certainly in terms of funding the growth for our midstream business.
As to the timing of that as we reported this morning we've talked about on the call we do have a sizable CapEx program certainly a significant amount of that visibility is in the regulated business and we're pleased about it but as you know we've been funding all of that funding our capital through internal sources of cash including this year as you know we also have another benefit of bonus depreciation which is about another $170 million.
So in terms of funding it's been internal sources cash on hand.
But as we talked about it David alluded to and Scott and certainly Greg as we have more visibility around that midstream growth in the Bakken I think sets the stage for hopefully additional growth there and beyond.
I think the MLP becomes front and center as a financing vehicle.
As David said we would think by the end of this year cash on hand plus internal sources at some point we'll need a financing need in the future.
And when we have visibility around that growth I think the MLP again is front and center.
So absolutely not off the table on the table and I think it's really related to when we have -- when we see the need for it.
Got it.
So it sounds like I guess the good news is that the financial stability of the company just from the perspective of excess cash on hand and also some additional cash flow from bonus depreciation gives you a lot of flexibility at the moment to fund CapEx both on the regulated side but also importantly on the Field Services side with that internally generated cash flow is that...? John I think that's right.
But I also don't want you to walk away or other investors with everything is that precise.
And again as Greg and his team worked very diligently to originate business when we see that we have the growth there I don't think that having cash on hand and available liquidity will hold us back from forming the MLP because it takes time to form it.
Obviously we've done all the ministerial things of audits and those things so we're prepared to do an MLP.
Can do one we just want to make sure it's at the right time and the best interest of our shareholders to do so.
Got it.
And then one other separate question.
How should we think about the potential bid or strategic benefit hypothetically speaking from Oncor as I think you all were discussing a little bit earlier when you said you would consider taking a look at it if it was for sale.
Is it something that helps to balance out the nonregulated earnings from Field Services? How should we think about some type of a business like that for you all? Well it certainly would do that.
Obviously Oncor is a sizable electric T&amp;D business.
It would add substantial amount of regulated assets and earnings to our portfolio.
And we recognize that we need to have a good regulated base as we grow our unregulated base.
So it certainly fits that  pistol for us.
So we're going to be diligent about looking at it if it ever comes on the market.
And I think it would be a nice fit but it's all about making sure you can buy it for a price that creates shareholder value and that's -- we'll work hard at it if it ever comes on the market.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Mars [ph] with Citizens Trust.
Two questions please.
Number one going back to a previous comment regarding the 75% of your Bakken crude being handled by truck and you guys are probably salivating over that would there be any maybe joint venture being done with a railroad in the same area? Steve we haven't entertained anything like that because we're really doing it at the gathering level not the long-haul level.
And there are some other folks looking at big pipes coming out of that area to basically compete with the railroads but I don't think -- that's not something we're interested in right now.
And I'd say that I think it was Faisel or Carl that mentioned the 75% In our particular counties we're looking at it as 100% is truck.
Very well.
Second question please.
With the earlier question regarding the CapEx on your electric operations possibly declining this year and/or next would that therefore push you folks to maybe a positive cash flow overall for this year or next year? One is that capital in our electric business is going to be much higher in 2013 than it was in 2012.
And it's going to stay pretty high for a number of years.
I think we're projecting pretty close to $700 million this year and next year before it starts declining down to the mid-$550 million.
So it's going to be high.
We've got $1.7 billion capital program.
We can't fund that from internally generated funds.
We do have cash on hand that we can utilize but -- if you're in the utility business you want to be growing rate base and you don't want to necessarily have excess cash flow for very long it probably means you're in pretty stagnant service territories.
So we expect that these capital expenditure numbers are going to remain at this level for some time.
Because this -- the service area that we're in is I would venture to say is probably if not the best one of the best in the country.
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on 2 issues.
One on the use of the excess cash I know we've had discussions in the past.
And I know cash is fungible but we try to look at that excess cash as perhaps adding to the overall growth profile for the company.
Obviously you've been using the cash as you mentioned you've got about $500 million left.
I just wanted to get your sense of where -- what are you thinking of that cash right now in the context of that say 5% to 7% -- 4% to 7% EPS growth rate does that cash put you at 100 basis points to that I mean keep you at the higher end? How should we think of the cash as it's being deployed and how does it manifest in that growth rate that you're targeting? We've talked about this in the past.
It certainly doesn't change the opportunities we look at.
We think we have lots of opportunities.
But the fact that it doesn't have a cost to it it does add to your return in the near term.
So I think there will be some upside in that because we don't have a cost associated with it.
But in terms of changing opportunity set I don't think so.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second you talked about the MLP also frequently in the past as kind of a funding vehicle.
At the same time you've also acknowledged that your company is more of a conglomerate if you will of the regulated businesses and the unregulated piece.
Have you all thought about looking at those businesses and perhaps looking at them as 2 separate entities and creating or unlocking shareholder value that way as opposed to just being driven by the funding needs? What's your latest thinking on looking at these as 2 separate companies and perhaps unlocking some conglomerate value that's being discounted right now? Ali I think it's a good question and we clearly think about that.
To some extent the MLP gets at both of those both the funding issue and the independent valuation issue.
So I think we do consider is there a way to unlock value where the sum of the parts that's being reflected in our stock price today is different? And I think an MLP has the potential to do that for us.
So yes we're looking at that.
And if you're thinking about maybe we spin one off versus keep the other we did that study a number of years ago we didn't think we had enough scale at the time and I don't think that's really in our thinking today but ways to unlock value are absolutely in our thinking and we'll attempt to do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And assuming the plan works out as you're envisioning the rest of the year should we think of this as a 2014 event? I would say we continue to look at it and I'm not sure what the timing will be and I don't think I can really comment on that but I want to tell you the management team at CenterPoint is absolutely focused on trying to create shareholder value and if we think there's a way to do it we're going to pursue it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 2013 not likely is that fair? This is Gary.
I don't think I would start characterizing like that.
I really wouldn't.
I'm not trying to be cute about it.
I think 2013 could it be viable? Of course it could.
But you come back to what would make it viable for us of course it is viable but in the sense that when we see the visibility growth and as we described we do have a lot of clarity around the CapEx plan on our regulated businesses Greg is working diligently and they have been originating business.
So when we see that there is more clarity there I think we can execute.
And as I've described to you Ali we can execute quickly on that.
So we have the ministerial work done and it's a question of doing the filing so don't try to put it on 2013 or '14.
I think what we said it's front and center at the right time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess one I'll just clarify.
But looking at the CapEx that you've laid out for us currently that CapEx would not necessarily support this.
You would probably need some new projects beyond that is that fair? I think it's all -- it's not -- I think there is some validity in what you said that we need that to make sure we have confidence that we're going to be able to grow the business.
And I think we're getting more and more confident all the time around that.
So I would say just kind of stay tuned on this one Ali.
Our last question comes from the line of Andrew Weisel with Macquarie.
Just to follow up on one of the comments you just made.
I just want to make sure I heard it right.
You're now looking for long-term growth of 5% to 7% is that compared to 4% to 6% previously? Internally we say 4% to 7%.
We did say 4% to 6%.
We kind of set our goals a little bit higher here than in the past but I would say that that doesn't indicate a change in our thinking.
Thank you.
Since we do not have any other questions we will end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today and we appreciate your support.
Have a nice day.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you very much Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; Scott Prochazka Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our first quarter 2013 results and provide highlights on other key activities.
We also have other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q are posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available on CenterPoint Energy's Investor website and will be archived for at least 1 year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to David.
Thank you Carla and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning we reported first quarter 2013 net income of $147 million or $0.34 per diluted share the same as reported in the first quarter of last year.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2013 was $332 million compared to $338 million last year.
Overall it was a good quarter for our balanced business portfolio.
Our Regulated Natural Gas Distribution unit benefited from a return to more normal winter weather continued strong service territories and timely rate recovery mechanisms.
Our Field Services unit continues to benefit from its contracting strategy and earnings from recent acquisitions.
Our Competitive Natural Gas Sales and Services unit also performed well.
The improved results of these units largely offset anticipated declines in our electric utility and Interstate Pipelines.
I am pleased to report that we closed yesterday on our midstream partnership which as you may recall combines our Interstate Pipelines and Field Services units with Enogex OGE's midstream business.
We believe the combination of our 2 midstream businesses will provide accelerated value creation through greater scale geographic reach diversification and expanded service capabilities.
We believe we can grow faster and capture more midstream opportunities as a combined entity than we could have alone.
We are eager to transform our 2 organizations into 1 business and to now begin to capture commercial and operating synergies and jointly pursue the significant opportunities we seek for this partnership.
We are conducting a thorough evaluation of both internal and external candidates for our key leadership positions and that process is well underway.
We have formed a program management office comprised of functional and business leaders from both CenterPoint Energy and Enogex to develop and implement comprehensive long-term integration plans.
These efforts can accelerate now that the partnership has been formed.
While our leadership team is being assembled and our integration activities progress day-to-day operations of the partnership will be conducted by existing management.
Our plans for an initial public offering in the form of a public master limited partnership are on track and we hope to complete these efforts within the next 6 to 12 months.
Under SEC regulations we are limited in what we can say about the financial and strategic details of the partnership until an S-1 registration statement for the IPO is filed with the SEC.
However there are some questions we can address at this time.
A number of you have asked about our intentions with regard to ongoing ownership in the MLP.
We fully intend to maintain ownership in the midstream partnership.
A diverse and balanced business mix remains important to CenterPoint and participating in the ongoing development of the U.S.
natural gas and liquids infrastructure is consistent with our energy delivery strategy.
We have also been asked about CenterPoint's dividend policy going forward.
We know our dividend is an important component of the total return expected by our shareholders.
We believe the additional cash flow generated by the partnership will provide flexibility as we evaluate future dividend levels and capital allocation decisions.
We also continue to receive questions about the accounting for the partnership.
First CenterPoint does not expect to record a step up of book basis in connection with the partnership's formation.
And second we expect to record our portion of the midstream partnership's earning using the equity method of accounting.
Let me conclude by reiterating how excited we are about this partnership.
We believe the partnership will create long-term value and significant cash flows for CenterPoint.
Going forward we expect that CenterPoint will not be valued on an earnings basis alone.
Instead we anticipate our regulated operations as well as our GP ownership will be valued on an earnings multiple basis while our LP interest in the midstream partnership will be valued consistent with the public valuation of the partnership following its IPO.
We believe this will provide a more transparent valuation for CenterPoint as a whole.
I'll now ask Scott to update you on the business performance of each unit for the first quarter of 2013.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Starting with Houston Electric.
Core operating income was $49 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to $70 million the prior year.
While revenue from customer growth remained strong from the addition of over 44 000 customers other factors particularly the timing of right-of-way revenues caused a decline in our year-over-year performance.
We also experienced slightly higher operating expenses depreciation and other taxes.
Some of these impacts are timing-related and are expected to reverse over the balance of the year.
The Houston area remains a leader in job creation with metropolitan job growth outpacing the nation as a whole.
We continued to enjoy a steady commercial growth and strong housing starts.
As a result we have forecasted a customer growth rate of approximately 2% annually.
I am particularly pleased with the first quarter performance of our Natural Gas Distribution unit.
Operating income was $139 million compared to $121 million the prior year.
This unit benefited from a return to more normal weather timely rate recovery from existing mechanisms effective bad debt management and continued customer growth with the addition of more than 29 000 customers.
Our Interstate Pipelines achieved income from operations including equity income from SESH our joint venture with Spectra of $57 million in the first quarter of 2013 down from $66 million last year.
Factors driving this decline include reduced ancillary services and lower off-system transportation revenues.
Compressed basis contributed to a reduction in pricing and volumes on some contract renewals.
Operating income increased by approximately $5 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
This increase is driven by the seasonality in demand charges associated with our natural gas distribution customer contracts.
Equity income from SESH was $5 million for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $6 million the previous year down slightly due to unplanned pipeline maintenance.
As you may recall in August of 2012 we filed to adjust rates for our MRT pipeline.
The FERC staff and other participants in the docket have filed initial testimony.
In the absence of a settlement the FERC procedural schedule contemplates a hearing in the third quarter of this year with a decision expected by year end.
Our field services unit had a solid quarter.
Income from operations was $53 million this quarter as compared to $50 million last year which included $3 million of equity earnings from the Waskom joint venture.
This improvement was driven by earnings from acquisitions made in 2012 throughput commitments and higher natural gas pricing on the sale of retained gas.
These benefits were partially offset by reduced gathering volumes and lower liquids pricing.
Our total natural gas gathering volumes averaged about 2.1 billion cubic feet per day in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to 2.6 Bcf per day in the first quarter of last year and 2.2 Bcf per day last quarter.
Given lower volumes we continue to see the benefit of our contracting strategy of throughput commitments and guaranteed returns.
Last month we signed a 15-year agreement to provide gas and oil gathering services in the Bakken shale region for XTO a subsidiary of Exxon Mobil.
This project which is included in our midstream partnership is expected to cost between $100 million and $125 million.
With the benefit of annual and term volume commitments we expect to generate returns in line with our target midstream hurdle rate.
Today trucks are the primary source of transportation for gathered project -- products in this region.
Gathering infrastructure will give customers a safer and more efficient and reliable way to move their products to centralized transportation hubs.
Survey permit and right-of-way work have been substantially completed by our team and we are preparing to begin construction in early summer.
We are excited about this opportunity for our midstream partnership as we move into an underdeveloped area outside our current footprint with a top producer with whom we have a great long-standing relationship.
We believe our past performance as a safe on-budget and on-time service provider helps to differentiate us from our competition and positions us to expand in this and other emerging crude oil and liquids rich shale plays.
Our final segment is our Competitive Natural Gas Sales and Services business.
Operating income for the first quarter of 2013 was $7 million compared to $1 million last year.
After adjusting for a $4 million mark-to-market change the results improved by $10 million over the first quarter of 2012.
This business is benefiting from improved margins.
In summary I am pleased with the overall first quarter results and excited about what lies ahead.
We will work diligently to ensure our businesses perform as expected as we continue to look for investment opportunities.
I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Scott and good morning to everyone.
Let me first update you on the status of financing of the midstream partnership.
We are very pleased to say that working with our partners at OGE we have arranged 2 very successful credit facilities.
At closing the partnership entered into a $1.4 billion revolving credit facility and a 3-year $1.05 billion term loan.
The revolver will be available to meet the ongoing liquidity needs of the partnership and the term loan was used to repay intercompany loans to SERC.
We expect the partnership to have investment-grade credit ratings and the initial drawn and undrawn costs are at attractive rates.
Turning to other financing activities at CenterPoint.
We paid off 2 series of outstanding debt at maturity thus far this year.
First Houston Electric repaid on March 15 $450 million of debt carrying an interest rate of 5.7% resulting in interest expense savings of approximately $25 million annually.
Second in anticipation of our midstream partnership on April 1 we repaid $365 million of 7 7/8% SERC notes resulting in interest expense savings of approximately $29 million annually.
SERC will utilize the payment it has received from the midstream partnership to achieve an appropriate capital structure to support our portfolio of natural gas distribution and competitive gas sales and services businesses.
Now I'd like to discuss our earnings guidance for 2013.
This morning in our earnings release we announced revised earnings guidance in the range of $1.17 to $1.25 per diluted share.
This guidance range takes into consideration the closing of our midstream partnership on May 1 the performance to date of our businesses as well as an estimate of our portion of the partnership's earnings for the balance of 2013.
The actual earnings of the partnership will be dependent on a number of variables the most significant being commodity prices volume throughput and the net synergies realized as the partnership's operations are integrated.
We expect the impact of the midstream partnership on CenterPoint's EPS to be accretive by 2015 if not earlier.
In addition to the impact of our midstream partnership earnings we continue to provide earnings guidance in the form of a range to reflect the number of other economic and operational variables such as weather regulatory proceedings effective tax rates and financing activities.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
Finally I would like to remind you of the $0.2075 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on April 25.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence of management and the Board of Directors in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint Energy and I will now turn the call back over to Carla.
Thank you Gary.
Please note since we plan to pursue an IPO of our midstream partnership we are restricted by SEC regulations in the details that we can discuss.
[Operator Instructions].
Sarah? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to be clear the $0.05 reduction in guidance for this year is that primarily almost due to the near-term dilution from the MLP formation? Is that the way we should think about it? Is the $0.05 essentially coming from there? I think that is the right way to think about it yes Ali.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then should we think I mean given Gary's remarks that we should see a kind of a similar impact perhaps in '14 before the accretion comes into play in '15? Is that the profile that roughly we should think about? I think you're going to -- this dilution will decline next year and then it'll be accretive in 2015 based on our assumptions today.
We have some things and hopefully we'll be able to win some additional business that will actually change that profile and make it a lot quicker than the base case we're looking at.
But it's going to -- the dilutive effect is going to be less next year and then it will be -- we believe it'll be accretive in 2015.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes and my second question.
David previously you had highlighted I think about $500 million of excess cash at CenterPoint.
I just wanted to get a sense of what that number would be right now.
And given this MLP formation I'm assuming that cash is now available for CenterPoint to use for different areas than just building out its midstream operation.
So I'm just wondering what your priority would be for that excess cash now? You want me to take that? Yes Gary wants it.
Yes I'll take that Ali.
Look as I said in my comments as you know we have paid down some debt so we have used essentially all of the cash that we had although we were in an invested position at the end of March.
So we have used that cash.
And then this year as we formed -- until we do the IPO we may have some additional cash that we inject into the joint venture depending on the timing of the CapEx there and the IPO.
So I want you to think of the cash as effectively that we've had historically over the last couple of years or 18 months or so we've applied that cash mainly to invest in some debt paydown.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a clarification on the timeframe you gave for the IPO.
I heard 6 to 12 months.
Was that for a completion of the IPO process? And if so do you have an expected time frame for the S-1 filing? Yes it is for a completion.
We are working hard at that as we speak.
We're going to try to get the S-1 on file later on this year.
I -- we'd like to shoot for the September timeframe or late summer.
And it takes time to get all this stuff through the SEC and review and then make sure the markets are right as well.
But we're going to do that as quickly as we can to make sure we get the right value for it as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the electric side you called out some expenses that you expect to kind of reverse as the year progresses.
Can you elaborate a little bit on that? Scott? Yes.
Matt this is Scott.
I'll take that one.
The delta we saw in performance quarter-over-quarter was driven by a couple of major things one of which was the timing of the right-of-way.
That was almost half of that delta and the cause of that is last year in the first quarter about half of the right-of-way revenue we received in the year came in the first quarter whereas this year the right-of-way revenue is going to be skewed more towards the middle to the back end so the quarter-over-quarter comparison was different by about half of that delta you saw.
And on the other side of it we saw some expenses that are going to be -- are going to reverse as we go through the year.
Some of it has to do with the fact that we've spent a little bit less capital than we had planned in this first quarter and as we spend more capital to make up our full budget we'll make up some of that expense delta.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Lower gathering volumes for Field Services.
I would have thought with the uptick in natural gas prices maybe we would have seen an increase in that.
Could you give a little more color on that? I'll ask Greg Harper to address that.
Yes.
With the increase in gas prices that we saw kind of going into the quarter we are seeing the rigs move back into our drier gas plays Haynesville in particular.
So we think we'll start seeing the uptick from those rigs coming in the second and third quarter for sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on -- just one more quick one on the right-of-way.
I understand the timing issue.
But in the fourth quarter you indicated that the right-of-way revenues would be well above historical.
That's still the case correct? Yes that is the case.
We expect that the right-of-way revenues will be kind of well above that fairly low historical number closer to what we experienced last year in terms of overall magnitude for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Just first could you give us a sense on the likely timing of the new management team at the MLP entity? Is this something over the next couple of weeks? Is it going to take a few months? Well Steve we're -- as I said in my direct remarks we're working hard at that.
We actually -- this thing closed a little bit faster than we thought.
We had kind of targeted early on an early June close rather than May.
But once everything cleared we were anxious to get it closed.
So I would say we're shooting as quickly as possible certainly within the next 30 to 60 days.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on -- maybe David you could give us a little color strategically for the rest of CenterPoint outside the MLP? What are you going to be thinking about in terms of strategic focus? You have more cash coming in et cetera.
Could you just give a little color there? Two comments there Steven.
First as you know we're very fortunate to have terrific service territories for our existing businesses.
Our organic growth is robust.
Our Houston Electric we should see rate base growth there of 5%.
And our gas LDCs will -- that will approach 7% over the next 5 years.
So we're going to have good healthy growth in our existing businesses.
We are also looking to say can we increase that regulated footprint? We would love to do that.
We continue to analyze that and see what makes sense and we'll continue to do that and as you know and it's hard to do a regulated M&amp;A deal but that's -- but they're not impossible and we continue to work hard to see if anything might make sense that can create value for our shareholders.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeremy Anot (sic) [Tonet] with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeremy Tonet.
I was just curious with gas above $4 if you could comment more -- maybe more specifically on the Haynesville if you're seeing any improvements in driller activity there? And also it seems like basis differentials might be starting to improve a bit.
Do you see any benefits to your Interstate Pipeline system? Yes this is Greg.
As I mentioned on a previous answer the Haynesville and as we talked about in the first quarter -- the first quarter during the year-end call Encana has announced along with Shell that they're moving up to 5 rigs back into the Haynesville.
We've already seen 1 rig move over so that makes a total of 3 drillings so we expect 5 by the end of year if not more if gas prices keep going up.
So again they just need to bring those wells on through the next quarter and third quarter.
As far as basis differentials we're not seeing the big spreads -- we're not seeing big spreads.
Going from negative $0.01 to $0.02 is not going to drive a lot of movement yet.
We need to get $0.20 $0.30 to see I think good improvement.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Eli Kraicer with Millennium.
It's Steve Gambuzza.
Just on the tax rate I believe that you'd -- on your fourth quarter call you had guided for a 30% -- 37% effective tax rate for 2013.
I believe you came in a bit below that in the first quarter and I was just curious what the update for the transaction if there was any change in that tax rate.
Steve this is Gary.
No there's not -- we would expect a 37% tax rate still stay around that.
A little movement between quarter but stay with 37%.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned the potential for additional midstream opportunities.
Can you provide an update on RFPs either specific opportunities or more generally on the landscape if it's heating up at all or if RFPs continue to be pushed out? Sure.
This is Greg again.
I'll talk pipelines first.
And I think we mentioned on the last call that we were preparing to place our bid into the Florida Power &amp; Light RFP that they're having for a big major new pipeline into Florida.
We did do that.
So they're -- I think they mentioned on their earnings call that they'll be evaluating those and hopefully have a second round by August.
We're in discussions with them on our proposal as I'm sure others are.
But we feel good about what we've put together.
On the field services side as we mentioned on the Bakken information and Scott actually addressed in his comments we see Bakken as -- this is not just a one-off investment.
We see a lot of investment opportunity in the Bakken.
We're one of the first independent gatherers of crude up in the Bakken and we'd like to obviously leverage off that footprint.
And we think there are potential other smaller systems that producers have been putting together.
Now they're up for sale or will be.
Mississippi Lime in connection with the partnership we know our partner OGE and Enogex are in some RFPs right around the Mississippi lime footprint and we'll be excited to kind of start participating with them in that with providing some exit capacity on our interstate pipes so we see that as a great opportunity for us first coming together.
Same thing with maybe in the Woodford area as well.
And then we're also -- there will still be some other Mississippi Lime RFPs coming out in the more northern area of the Mississippi Lime we think in mid-summer.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you very much Sarah.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; Scott Prochazka Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our second quarter 2013 results and provide highlights on other key activities.
We also have other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q are posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available on CenterPoint Energy's Investor website and will be archived for at least 1 year.
And with that I will turn the call over to David.
Thank you Carla.
Good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning marks the first quarter we are reporting the results of our new midstream partnership with OGE Energy.
This partnership is an exciting opportunity for CenterPoint and has the potential for substantial long-term shareholder value creation.
We will provide a status update on the partnership's progress as well as second quarter performance later in the call.
Earlier this morning we reported a second quarter net loss of $100 million or $0.23 per diluted share.
Second quarter results included 2 unusual items resulting from the formation of the midstream partnership.
The first related to a $225 million non-cash deferred tax charge which Gary will speak to later on the call.
The second related to $10 million of expenses that the company incurred in the formation of the midstream partnership.
Excluding these 2 unusual items the second quarter net income would've been $131 million or $0.30 per diluted share compared to net income of $126 million or $0.29 per diluted share for the same period of 2012.
This quarter's performance continues to demonstrate the benefit of CenterPoint's balanced and diversified energy delivery portfolio.
Our regulated natural gas distribution unit reported a strong quarter offsetting the impacts of milder weather on our electric unit.
As anticipated the financial performance of our midstream investments fell below last year's results.
Scott is going to speak to the performance of each of our business segments following my remarks.
Let me speak to the progress being made at the midstream partnership.
Earlier this week we announced the name of the new partnership Enable Midstream Partners.
This name captures the rich heritage of both CenterPoint and OGE reinforces our focus on enabling our customer success and reflects our employees' mindset and expertise.
Yesterday we also announced our senior operations leadership team.
Up until now we have continued to operate the former CenterPoint and Enogex businesses as 2 separate businesses within the partnership.
We have had a number of teams working diligently on integration efforts and we now believe it is important that we operate as a single integrated and united company.
Keith Mitchell the former President of Enogex was named Chief Operating Officer of the midstream partnership.
Keith is a very capable and experienced executive and will do a fine job in this role.
We also named 8 additional senior officers of the partnership all are very seasoned and knowledgeable midstream executives.
Our search for a chief executive officer is continuing.
The most important decision that Pete and I have is this one and it has our undivided attention.
As you know it is very important to select the right person for the long-term success of the partnership.
I'm confident we'll find the right candidate for this role.
We have also identified a number of projects that will help us obtain the $50 million of estimated synergies over the next 2 years as we have previously discussed.
A number of these are related to our field operations and are in the process of being implemented.
While it will take some time to realize the full potential of this partnership I'm pleased with our progress to date and the attitude and commitment of our employees to make this partnership successful.
Gary will update you on the progress the partnership has made in preparation for its initial public offering.
Scott will now update you on the business performance of each unit for the second quarter of 2013.
Thank you David and good morning to everyone.
Houston Electric's second quarter 2013 core operating income was $131 million compared to $153 million in the prior year.
Base revenues were down approximately $21 million due to weather compared to last year.
When compared to normal weather base revenues were down about $4 million.
In addition economic growth in our service territory and higher net transmission revenues offset increases in O&amp;M depreciation and lower right-of-way revenues.
Overall this business continues to perform well.
Despite the milder-than-normal spring weather we remain encouraged by the economic activity around the Houston area.
We have added over 43 000 customers since the second quarter of 2012 and continue to expect a 2% growth rate which equates to $25 million of new revenues annually.
Our transmission rights-of-way continue to be an attractive route for third-party pipelines to move their commodities to the Houston ship channel.
Year-to-date right-of-way revenue is around $7 million compared to about $19 million last year.
By yearend we anticipate being at about $20 million well above our normal run rate of $2 million to $3 million per year but below last year's total of $27 million.
Houston Electric's capital plan reflects the infrastructure investment needed to support service area growth and system reliability.
Through June of 2013 Houston Electric has spent $325 million of capital and expects to deploy approximately $700 million of capital by yearend of which roughly half is for transmission assets.
Our planned 5-year capital investment program of approximately $3 billion results in a compound annual rate base growth of 5%.
We continue to be asked how Houston Electric's investments correlates to its earnings growth.
We recently filed our 2012 earnings monitoring report which reflects that we earned on a weather-normalized basis above our allowed return due in part to increased right of way revenues reduced interest expense and the benefit of bonus depreciation.
Our infrastructure recovery mechanisms are designed to ensure timely recovery of our capital investments.
In 2013 we do not expect to file for additional rate increases utilizing these mechanisms.
Our natural gas distribution unit had an excellent quarter earning $25 million of operating income compared to $9 million the prior year.
Base revenues net of various weather normalization mechanisms were up $10 million due to weather compared to last year and up about $5 million when compared to normal weather.
Timely rate recovery mechanisms along with customer growth and increased throughput resulted in an additional $8 million.
These positive contributions were partially offset by increases of $3 million in depreciation and $2 million in property taxes.
Gas operations continues to focus on providing safe and reliable system operations as well as continued expense management.
Pipeline integrity continues to drive a sizable and growing portion of our total capital expenditures and serves to provide a safe and reliable system as well as reduced operating expenses over time.
Excluding the expenses associated with energy efficiency programs for which we received offsetting revenue operating expenses remained flat year-over-year for the quarter and year-to-date.
Additionally our ongoing effective management of credit and collections has enabled us to contain bad debt expenses.
Write-offs as a percentage of revenues are at historic lows.
We continue to see growth across our service territories with the addition of about 32 000 gas customers since June of 2012 and forecast growth to continue at a rate of approximately 1% annually.
Our capital investment through the second quarter of 2013 was almost $190 million and we are on track to invest in excess of $420 million by yearend.
This level of investment is needed to support increased pipeline integrity requirements and growth from commercial and residential customer classes in our service territories.
Our planned 5-year capital investment program of approximately $2 billion results in a compound annual rate base growth of 7%.
Competitive natural gas sales and services performed as expected this quarter.
Operating income was $3 million compared to an operating loss of $4 million during the same period last year driven primarily by mark-to-market accounting.
This business is now on solid footing having eliminated most of the uneconomic transportation and storage agreements.
Now let me report on our midstream investment.
First I'll remind you that under SEC regulations we are limited in what we can say about the financial and strategic details of the partnership until we file the S-1 registration statement for the IPO.
In April CenterPoint Energy's Interstate Pipelines and Field Services segments contributed $40 million of operating income.
Additionally in the second quarter we recognized $37 million of equity income of which $33 million is from our investment in the midstream partnership and $4 million is from our investment in SESH our partnership with Spectra.
Last year we owned 100% of CenterPoint's midstream assets plus a 50% interest in SESH.
This year we are reporting 1 month ownership interest from that same structure plus 58% of the new partnership for May and June as well as the 25% ownership we retained in SESH.
CenterPoint Energy's earnings contributions from our midstream investment is down by approximately $22 million versus the second quarter of 2012 excluding the impact of any step up in basis of the partnership's assets.
Over half of the decline in earnings is driven by changes in market conditions.
While natural gas prices and processing volumes are up from last year gathering volumes in primarily dry gas basins and basis differentials have not recovered.
Additionally liquids pricing and the demand for ancillary services are below last year's levels.
These conditions were largely anticipated and the midstream partnership's results are essentially in line with our expectations.
As Gary will describe in more detail we had a reduction of our state tax liability associated with the formation of the partnership which more than offset the earnings contribution decline this quarter.
Let me update you on a couple items we have discussed in the past.
Earlier this month the partnership received clearance from the Bureau of Land Management for construction of the Bakken crude oil gathering project.
The partnership has completed the applicable right of way activity and construction is well underway.
You may recall that in August of 2012 the MRT pipeline filed for an approximate $43 million cost of service increase.
The partnership is very pleased to have reached the settlement in this rate proceeding and is currently seeking FERC approval.
The settlement provides for a $27 million cost of service increase.
Overall despite some challenges we had a good quarter.
Our regulated businesses complemented each other well and the fundamentals exist for a strong second half of the year.
Our midstream investment performed in line with our expectation and continues to pursue value creation through synergy opportunities and growth.
I will now turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Scott and good morning to everyone.
Let me address some items associated with the partnership's formation before discussing the CenterPoint Energy update.
First I would like to discuss an item that impacts our effective tax rate for the second quarter.
The May formation of the partnership required us to record a non-cash deferred tax liability of $225 million or $0.52 per diluted share.
This non-cash deferred tax liability is related to the nondeductible goodwill contributed by CenterPoint to the midstream partnership.
You may recall that CenterPoint Energy maintained $628 million of goodwill associated with the midstream assets from the original 1997 acquisition of NorAm Energy.
In connection with the formation of the partnership on May 1 CenterPoint Energy contributed to goodwill associated with its midstream assets to the partnership.
The triggering events that required us to record this onetime non-cash deferred tax liability relates to the deconsolidation from CenterPoint and the recording of our portion of the midstream partnership using the equity method of accounting.
In addition our effective tax rate in the second quarter was favorably impacted by $29 million or approximately $0.07 per diluted share.
This tax benefit results from the formation of the midstream partnership and will ultimately result in lower future state tax payments.
Next I would like to discuss the accounting for the midstream partnership.
We mentioned on our last earnings call that we did not expect the partnership to record a step up of book basis to fair value in connection with its formation.
However after consultation with the SEC it has been determined that the partnership will revalue to fair value the net assets of Enogex.
There is no cash impact to the midstream partnership or CenterPoint Energy in doing so.
As you know the partnership is planning to conduct an initial public offering as a master limited partnership and we have been working diligently to do so.
We expect the additional valuation work to determine fair value for the net assets of Enogex and the related audit requirements will extend the timeline for this effort.
However the goal remains to complete the IPO in either the fourth quarter of this year or the first quarter of 2014.
Next I'm going to address some other items related to CenterPoint Energy.
First let me update you on our liability management activity following the receipt of $1.05 billion from the midstream partnership.
As I mentioned last quarter our objective is to use the initial cash received from the midstream partnership to achieve an appropriate capital structure with SERC.
During the quarter we reduced our debt by approximately $525 million which will result in approximately $38 million of annual interest savings.
By yearend we expect to have reduced consolidated debt by more than $1.1 billion which will result in an annual interest savings of more than $70 million.
Although not impacting our earnings I would also note that we expect to pay off our first transition securitization bonds later this year which will lower the charges we bill to retail electric providers in our electric service territory.
We received a number of questions regarding our dividend policy both the timing of the decision to change the policy and the expected amount.
As we mentioned in our last earnings call the additional cash flow generated by the partnership will provide flexibility and allow us to reevaluate future dividend levels and other capital allocation decisions.
We will provide an update on our dividend policy early next year.
Now let me discuss our earnings -- our 2013 earnings guidance.
This morning we reaffirmed our estimate for earnings on a guidance basis in the range of $1.17 to $1.25 per diluted share.
Our guidance excludes the effects of the 2 unusual items resulting from the formation of the midstream partnership.
In addition to our normal guidance exclusions described in our press release this range takes into consideration the closing of the midstream partnership on May 1 the performance to date of our businesses as well as an estimate of our portion of the partnership's earnings for the balance of 2013.
The actual earnings of the partnership will be dependent on a number of variables the most significant being commodity pricing volume throughput ancillary services and the net synergies realized as the partnership's operations are integrated.
In addition to the impact of our midstream partnership earnings we continue to provide earnings guidance in the form of a range to reflect a number of other economic and operational variables such as weather regulatory proceeding effective tax rates and financing activities.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
In closing I'd like to remind you of the $0.2075 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on July 25.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and confidence of management and the Board of Directors in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint Energy and I will turn the call back over to the Carla.
Thank you Gary.
As a reminder since the midstream partnership plans to pursue an IPO we are restricted by SEC regulations [indiscernible].
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Sarah? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question you indicated that the midstream results were in line with your internal expectations also that the 2 businesses have been kind of operated independently today.
Is that -- is it true that both businesses performed in line with expectations? Or could you talk a little bit about individually how they compared to what you were expecting? Matt this is David.
No we were talking about the total partnership.
Each business was really pretty close to plan.
We expected liquids prices to drop and they did.
We expected that ancillary services were going to be challenging and they were.
So I think that both businesses operated pretty close to the plans we put together earlier this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the ongoing search for a CEO for the business could you give us a little flavor for what type of qualities or background you're looking for? And do you have any kind of timeline that you can share with us at this point? Well we clearly want a seasoned executive that it can come in and help integrate and unite these 2 companies.
We're looking for a seasoned executive in the midstream business who knows the energy business and that is a leader.
And so we have lots of candidates we've been talking to including some internal candidates.
Lots of interest in this position as you would expect.
But this is a really important decision for us because we're going to operate this thing for the long term not the short term.
And so we're looking for a leader that's really going to help us get and create long-term value for both -- all the owners of the partnership.
So timeline we're going at this as fast as we can but we're not going to make a decision just to make it.
We're going to make it when we believe we have the right person to run the partnership.
Research Division</strong> And just one quick follow-up and sorry if I missed this.
Was there an update on the expected timing of the S-1 filing? This is Gary.
We expect again that we would file the S-1 in the fourth quarter -- hopefully in the fourth quarter late third quarter or the fourth quarter.
In terms of the timing of the IPO again that depends on the review process of the SEC.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
My first question is kind of following up on the timing.
If I heard you correctly you said that early next year you'll talk about the CenterPoint dividend policy.
Can you maybe elaborate would the magnitude of the increase depend on whether or not the IPO has been completed? This is Gary.
Look the way we're thinking about this is that we want to file the S-1.
We want to obviously file the S-1 really understand the cash flows that we'll have from the joint venture.
Also this fall as you would expect we go through our normal process of looking at the capital that we'll allocate to our businesses both the electric and the gas utilities.
So it's really understanding our capital allocation opportunities the dividend policy is part of that.
And of course historically we've been allocating capital to the midstream business in the future subsequent to the IPO or even before the IPO ultimately we'll receive cash from the joint venture.
So we're taking all of that Andrew into consideration in determining the dividend level.
We think the appropriate time to do that is really after the first few years.
I said we hope to do the IPO as soon as possible.
Again we'll file the S-1 as soon as possible and hope to have a review of that and go to market as soon as possible.
We hope that's going to be this year if not in the first quarter of next year.
I think having clarity around those items will be important in terms of making the dividend decisions which is part of our capital allocation.
So I think that's the color around it Andrew.
Okay.
Now if the IPO isn't done by the time you make your dividend decision which you typically announce in mid-January would it be possible to have a 2-step increase in the dividend during the next calendar year? Or will it be a decision in January then the following decision wouldn't be until 12 months later? I'm not going to get in front of the board on that.
I think that certainly the IPO is important.
But again the JV in terms of the cash flows we'll have on the JV is really the clarity around their capital plan and with their investment plan.
So I won't speak to whether it's going to be 1-step or 2-step but clearly we have the flexibility to rewrite the dividend and again that's going to be a part of a holistic decision around our capital allocation opportunities.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I guess we have to be a little more patient.
Then just 2 very quick ones on the electric utility.
I believe you said you don't expect to file for a rate increase during '13.
In the past you said for the next few years or the foreseeable future is that a change in your tone of when the next rate case may come? Andrew this is Scott let me take that one.
The statement I made was referencing the use of those mechanisms for asset recovery.
I was not referencing a full-blown rate case.
That's the distinction there.
We just don't intend to use -- file this year for using those mechanisms.
And the comment about a rate proceeding being a little further out is still very valid.
Okay.
Then lastly you mentioned 2% customer growth.
What are the latest trends you're seeing in terms of usage per account or overall load growth? Usage is holding about even.
We've seen a little bit of decline in the past and then it seems to have leveled out here lately.
So I'd say it's about flat to what we've -- and that's been our expectation and that's what we're actually experiencing.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> A couple of things.
First just the state tax gain that you noted is that something that was in the guidance plan from when you updated it on the transaction? Yes.
Certainly our state taxes Steve are one of the items that we all call a variable that we outlined.
And again the background of this when we formed the joint venture as you know we look at our state taxes both current and deferred each quarter and we have to adjust for that.
When we formed the joint venture that allowed if you will looking at both the allocations and the construct of the determination of those rates and that allowed us to adjust our deferred taxes related to then forming the joint venture.
And again those deferred taxes do result in cash-reduced state tax payments.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then also just with the change in the step up accounting can -- does that have any implication for kind of the guidance you gave for the venture as well in terms of I guess equity earnings? No really the step up is not going to make any difference in terms of the way we're going to record earnings.
I'd say the way -- the amount of equity earnings it's either going to be additional depreciation coming from the joint venture or a change in the amortization that we have at the company.
So there's really no cash impact or change.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But there could be some book impact or not that either? I'd say potential book impact but I don't expect it to be material.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then is there any maybe possibility to update potential growth investment opportunities in the business right now in terms of the midstream business? Steven we're a little bit hampered by what we can say because of the S-1 filing which we hope to be doing here.
I will say just generally there's lots of activity still in the wet basins that are in -- that the partnership both processes gas out of and gathers.
So lots of activity.
We're pursuing a lot of activity.
But we can't give any specific details around any basin right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Actually Steve just kind of touched on the question from a step up standpoint.
But maybe one sort of associated question is will that allow you to basically have a higher deferral of the distributions you get? I just want to make sure I understand that there isn't any tax impact? This is Gary Carl.
This is really not a tax -- this is really doing -- this is related to the book accounting for the joint venture.
This is really around GAAP accounting for the joint venture.
So it's not really going to have an impact on -- as I said cash or economic impact up to the joint venture.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Let me go about a question that was just asked with respect to the projects you're working on realizing that you're restricted until the S-1 filing.
But I suspect that losing the Florida pipeline RFP was to the home team was a disappointment but not totally unexpected.
Is there anything out there in the public domain that you can talk about on big RFPs like that that you're thinking about working on are working on? Charles that's probably the biggest one.
Obviously that was a $3 billion pipeline.
And you're right we are very disappointed.
We put a lot of work into that.
But that's the way things go sometimes.
But there's not anything comparable to that that I'm aware of on the pipeline side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to go back to the accounting just to make sure I have this right.
I realize these were non-cash charges they're just GAAP.
But as far as your expectations of the midstream transaction not being accretive to 2015 that doesn't change that at all does it? No that doesn't change at all Charles.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gary I apologize I got on the call late so you may have addressed this.
But if I look at your adjusted earnings both for the quarter and the range -- guidance range for the year that you've kept.
Can you remind us what is the effective tax rate that is associated with those on the adjusted basis? Okay.
Yes.
I think the way to -- and you may have missed this early but you need to exclude the $225 million deferred tax provision in terms of the effective tax rate for the quarter.
So when you exclude that that effective rate is 13%.
Then that's lower than the statutory rate of course which is normally 36% to 37%.
And the reason for that we recorded in this quarter $29 million benefit related to lowered state deferred taxes.
And those lower state deferred taxes again will ultimately -- those deferred taxes will ultimately result in lower payments cash payments.
So if you were to adjust both of those it would be a 33% rate.
For the balance of the year our rate will return to more normal rate I'm going to say circa 36% to 37%.
So for the full year you can expect a tax rate of about 32% to 33% for the full year.
And again I want to emphasize that the $29 million lower state deferred tax is a different item than the $225 million.
The $225 million is the onetime non-cash deferred tax.
The lower deferred taxes on the state taxes is the result of formation of the partnership and again will result in lower taxes going forward.
And by the way it could have gone the other way depending on again on the construct of the way you calculate state taxes.
We look at this each quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then secondly I understand you guys have that -- and I heard your discussion on dividend and your plans post IPO et cetera to clarify.
But conceptually -- historically we've talked about a dividend on an earnings payout ratio.
Conceptually how should we be thinking of this dividend for the new CenterPoint going forward? I'll take a shot at that because Gary and I talk about that a lot.
And that is part of the regulated businesses I think still a dividend payout policy based on earnings is appropriate.
But I think for the cash flow we're going to get from our interest in the partnership we have to think about that differently.
Obviously we need to look at how we can use that cash whether it's investing in our core businesses or paying out dividends or buying back stock or something of that nature we will.
But I think you do you need to look at the 2 pieces of our business different than we have in the past.
And Ali this is Gary just to continue on that vein.
One of the earlier question was around the timing.
And again we really want to have this fall as we go through our normal process of cap allocation understanding the opportunities we have to invest in our businesses really understand that better and then have a real clear view hopefully again as I mentioned earlier in the call that we'll file the S-1 as early as this fall and hopefully have the IPO done but hopefully no later than the first quarter we'd like as much clarity as possible as we make the decision on how much of our capital to allocate to the dividend how much to allocate to direct share repurchases.
But most importantly we hope that we can invest -- continue to invest in our businesses.
So that's the reason for the timing if you will on the dividend.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Makes sense.
Last question if I could.
Am I hearing you guys right that on the regulated businesses both at the electric and gas LDCs you're pretty much earning authorized returns you're not seeing any lags in any of those businesses? Ali this is Scott.
Yes I think your assumption there is pretty good.
We are -- both of those businesses are earning right around their allowed return across the gas properties in aggregate as well as in the electric area.
Your next question comes from the line of Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> As a follow-up to the capital deployment discussion.
As you look out over the next few years I know you've already ramped investment plans at the utility I'm curious if you see any additional organic growth opportunities beyond the current CapEx guidance? And then separately how you're thinking about utility M&amp;A opportunities and the parameters that you use to evaluate acquisitions.
Scott why don't you handle the organic question? And I'll take the M&amp;A.
Okay.
Sarah we're in the process now of going through our next cycle of planning where we look at capital requirements for the next 5-year period.
But the growth that we've seen in Houston to date it stays still very strong.
It's possible as we refresh these that we may see opportunities for additional investment related to growth.
One area that is a possibility that's not reflected in our plan is the potential for investment in some import capacity into the Houston area where we've now -- where we're now working with ERCOT to complete the study about the need for that.
And the timing for that particular opportunity would be towards the latter end of the next 5-year period.
So it is possible there is additional opportunities for investment in that area.
And on the M&amp;A front Sarah we continue to look at opportunities.
We'd love to grow our regulated utilities whether it's gas or electric.
That's our core business and we like to grow it.
Recognizing as you do that when you pay premiums for utilities you have to make sure that it's accretive and value-accretive to your shareholder because you can't recover the premiums back through rights.
So it's a little bit more difficult in a regulated business to do M&amp;A because of the kind of the rate treatment but we are active in doing that.
As you know we did acquire NorAm some years ago in a transaction and we continue to be interested in this space.
And with that we do not have any additional questions so we will end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today.
We appreciate your support and have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you very much Mackenzie.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
David McClanahan President and CEO; Scott Prochazka Executive Vice President and COO; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our third quarter 2013 results and provide highlights on other key activities.
We also have other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and Form 10-Q are posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before David begins I would like to mention that a replay of this call will be available on CenterPoint Energy's Investor website and will be archived for at least 1 year.
And with that I will turn the call over to David.
Thank you Carla and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
Earlier this morning we reported third quarter net income of $151 million or $0.35 per diluted share compared to third quarter 2012 net income of $10 million or $0.02 per diluted share.
Last year's results included 2 unusual items.
A $252 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge associated with our competitive Energy Services business and a $136 million non-cash pretax gain associated with the acquisition of an additional interest in a gathering and processing joint venture.
Excluding these 2 unusual items net income in the third quarter of 2012 would've been $174 million or $0.40 per diluted share.
Operating income for the third quarter 2013 was $244 million.
Following our May 1 formation of Enable Midstream Partners we report our investment in our midstream operations as equity income rather than operating income.
As a result our operating income for the third quarter and the 9 months ended September 2013 are not comparable to prior periods.
I am pleased with the performance of our regulated electric and natural gas utilities this quarter and Scott will review in more detail -- with them in more detail in a few minutes.
I'll now discuss our midstream investments.
CenterPoint Energy recognized $77 million of equity earnings from our investment in Enable Midstream Partners and an additional $3 million from our remaining ownership in SESH.
This month we expect to receive a cash distribution of approximately $70 million associated with Enable's third quarter results.
Enable's transportation and storage segment continues to be challenged by ongoing low seasonal and geographic price differentials which reduced the demand for ancillary services and adversely impacted certain contract renewals.
In addition quarterly earnings were impacted by the costs associated with settling a legacy lawsuit and certain business development expenses that together totaled approximately $7 million.
Enable's gathering and processing segment had a solid quarter despite relatively low commodity prices.
Processing and wet gas gathering continues to do well while dry gas gathering continues to be challenged by reduced drilling activity.
Demand for new processing capacity continues to increase.
In addition to the Muckler [ph] Oklahoma processing plant currently under construction.
The partnership recently approved a new 200 million cubic feet per day processing plant to be located in Bradley Oklahoma.
This plant is expected to go into service in early 2015.
Once completed it will be Enable's 13th major plant and we'll bring its total processing capacity to about 2.3 billion cubic feet per day.
The construction of the partnership's Bakken crude oil gathering project continues to go well.
Initial commissioning activities are underway and the first phase is expected to be in service later this month.
The final phase of construction and commissioning will resume in the spring of 2014 weather permitting and is expected to be completed in the first half of the year.
The search for the Enable CEO is ongoing.
This process has taken longer than we anticipated.
However we continue to see significant interest in the position and we remain disciplined in our search for the right person for this job.
Before turning the call over to Scott I'd like to take a moment to say thank you to the employees shareholders and members of the financial and investment community that I have had the pleasure to work with during my 41 years at the company.
Last week we announced my plans to step down as CEO at the end of the year and the board's appointment of Scott Prochazka as the new President and CEO of CenterPoint Energy.
I'm proud of what has been accomplished during my 12-year tenure as CEO of CenterPoint.
CEOs often get too much credit for good company performance.
In the case of CenterPoint this truly was a team effort starting at the top with my executive community made up of Gary Whitlock Scott Rozzell Tom Standish and Steve Schaefer before his retirement.
But the success of CenterPoint is really due to the 8800 employees who work hard every day to execute our plans regardless of the obstacles before them.
I could not have asked for a better team.
I'm excited about CenterPoint's future and the vision energy and enthusiasm that Scott Prochazka will bring to the job.
Scott knows our industry and company well.
He is highly respected by our employees and he's motivated to serve our customers better every day and create shareholder value.
Scott is going to be a great leader and CEO for CenterPoint.
I'll now turn the call over to Scott for more detailed comments about the third quarter performance.
Thank you and good morning to everyone.
David I appreciate the trust and confidence you and the board have placed in me.
For those of you on the call I look forward to interacting with you in a new capacity.
I'm excited about the future of our company and believe we can build upon its 147-year history of excellence.
Today I'm going to focus on the quarterly performance and current business environment of our 2 operating segments: Houston Electric and natural gas distribution.
Houston Electric's third quarter 2013 core operating income was $207 million compared to $205 million in the prior year.
The business continues to benefit from strong growth in our service territory with the addition of more than 44 000 customers since September of 2012.
We expect this 2% customer growth rate to remain through the end of the year and into the foreseeable future.
During the quarter we also benefited from increased usage which was primarily attributable to favorable weather.
These benefits were partially offset by increases in O&amp;M depreciation and property taxes.
Residential throughput was up 4% compared to the same quarter last year.
Combined commercial and industrial throughput was also up increasing approximately 2% compared to the same period last year.
Our commercial and virtually all of our industrial classes are built on-demand.
So total throughput comparisons are not indicative of these customer classes' contribution to revenue.
Favorable weather increased revenues by approximately $10 million this quarter.
And for the year weather has been essentially normal.
Through September right-of-way revenues were approximately $10 million compared to about $24 million during the same period last year.
By year-end we anticipate 2013 annual right-of-way revenues to exceed last year's total of $27 million.
Right-of-way revenues are dependent upon the construction plans of others and we expect these revenues will trend lower beginning next year.
Houston Electric continues to have a robust capital plan that reflects the infrastructure investment needed to support service area growth ongoing maintenance and system reliability.
Through September of 2013 Houston Electric has invested $515 million up nearly $100 million from the same period last year.
We expect to invest approximately $720 million of capital by year-end which is consistent with our capital plan.
We anticipate continued high levels of investment next year to meet the infrastructure needs of our growing service area.
This July Houston Electric submitted a proposal to the Electric Reliability Council of Texas or ERCOT for construction of additional transmission capacity into the Houston region.
To meet growing electric demand new transmission capacity must be added to access power generation located in other parts of the state.
We have proposed for consideration by ERCOT 3 different options that involve facilities to be either wholly or partially owned by Houston Electric.
If ERCOT recommends a Houston Electric ownership option the company will initiate a process with the Public Utility Commission of Texas to seek approval to begin construction.
Assuming PUC approval construction will begin in 2017 at a cost of $300 million to $550 million depending upon the options selected.
Lastly to help enhance stability of earnings Houston Electric has entered into a weather hedge for the winter months of November through February 2014.
From time to time we will secure a weather hedge when implied economics are reasonable.
This hedge is similar to the 1 gas operation as used effectively over the last several years to guard against the weather variability in jurisdictions that lack weather normalization adjustment writers.
We believe this can provide similar revenue stability for Houston Electric this winter.
Our Natural Gas Distribution unit performed well this quarter earning $5 million of operating income compared to the same amount in the prior year.
While the third quarter is generally the softest due to the seasonal nature of this business performance is in line with our expectations for the quarter.
Timely rate recovery mechanisms and continued customer growth increased quarterly revenues compared to the same period last year.
These positive contributions were offset by increases in O&amp;M depreciation and property taxes.
Gas operations performance year-to-date has exceeded our expectations and we anticipate a strong overall performance for the calendar year.
Gas operations capital investment through the third quarter of this year was about $315 million up more than $60 million from the same period last year.
We anticipate investing approximately $430 million of capital by year-end.
Investments in pipeline integrity initiatives continue to drive a sizable portion of our total capital expenditures.
These investments not only serve to enhance the safety and reliability of our system but also will reduce operating expenses over time.
We continue to see growth across our service territories with the addition of approximately 24 000 gas customers since September 2012 and this pace is expected to continue.
This August we filed a general rate case in Minnesota to increase overall base rates by $44.3 million annually which includes moving into base rate $15 million of energy efficiency expenditures now being recovered in a separate writer.
Our filing is based upon a rate base of $700 million which reflects the significant capital expenditures we have made across our Minnesota service territory a full decoupling mechanism and an ROE of 10.3% with a 53% equity capital structure.
Interim rates went into effect on October 1 and we expect a final decision around mid-2014.
Finally gas operations has once again entered into a weather hedge for certain jurisdictions to mitigate the impact of weather on our operating income for the period of October 2013 through April of 2014.
Overall our operating units had a great quarter and I believe we are well positioned to finish the year strong.
And with that I will turn the call over to Gary.
Thank you Scott and good morning to everyone.
Before discussing various CenterPoint financial items I'll provide an update on the Enable Midstream S-1 filing and IPO timeline.
As I mentioned last quarter we were required to conduct additional valuation work to determine fair value for the net assets of Enogex which extended the time needed to prepare the S-1.
This work and the related audit requirements are now substantially complete and we expect to be in a position to file the registration statement with the SEC later this quarter.
Our goal remains to have a publicly traded master limited partnership in the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to CenterPoint Energy related activities we are very pleased to have extended our 3 revolving bank credit facilities.
The amendments extend the maturity date of each of the facilities 2 years to 2018 and the pricing grid remains the same.
We also made an improvement to the PAD facility replacing the debt-to-EBITDA covenant with a debt to total capitalization covenant that is more in line with investment-grade utilities.
In addition the aggregate commitments under the FERC facility will reduce to $600 million from $950 million.
The aggregate commitments under the CenterPoint Energy and CEHE facilities remain unchanged.
We are very pleased to have in place 5-year facilities that are appropriately sized and competitively priced.
During the third quarter we redeemed $92 million of debt as well an additional $59 million of debt in October.
For the full year we will have reduced our debt by approximately $1.1 billion.
The company has also benefited from a number of favorable actions by the rating agencies in 2013.
Most recently in August Moody's upgraded the debt ratings of CenterPoint Energy and Houston Electric.
CenterPoint Energy now has a senior unsecured rating of BAA2 and Houston Electric has a senior secured debt rating of A2.
The rating of FERC senior unsecured debt was reaffirmed at BAA2 and the rating outlook for all 3 companies is now stable.
Finally let me discuss our 2013 earnings guidance.
This morning we reaffirmed our estimate of earnings on a guidance basis in the range of $1.17 to $1.25 per diluted share.
Our guidance excludes the effects of the 2 unusual items resulting from the formation of the midstream partnership that we discussed in the second quarter earnings call.
In addition to the normal guidance exclusions described in our press release this range takes into consideration the closing of the midstream partnership on May 1 the performance to date of our businesses as well as an estimate of our portion of the partnership's earnings for the balance of 2013.
The actual earnings of the partnership will be dependent on a number of variables the most significant being commodity prices volume throughput ancillary services and the net synergies realized as the partnership's operations are integrated.
In addition to the impact of our midstream partnership earnings we continue to provide earnings guidance in the form of a range to reflect a number of other economic and operational variables such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings effective tax rates and financing activities.
In closing I'd like to remind you of the $0.2075 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on October 23.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence of management and the Board of Directors in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint Energy and I will turn the call back over to Scott.
Before we take your questions I'd like to take a moment to share a few thoughts with you.
Many of you have met with and have known David McClanahan for a long time.
You know him to be a visionary an industry leader and a statesman.
Throughout his tenure David has been focused on creating value for all of our stakeholders our shareholders our customers our employees and the communities in which we do business.
I have heard it said that his retirement marks the end of an era and I can assure you that the employees of the company including me feel this way.
His leadership disciplined approach to business decision-making and personal integrity have set a high standard for each of us.
On behalf of all the employees of the company thank you David for everything you have done to make CenterPoint Energy a great company.
And on a personal level I want to thank you for your friendship and counsel.
David is the first member of his leadership team to retire.
During 2014 Scott Rozzell Tom Standish and Gary Whitlock all turned 65 and have indicated their intentions to retire as well.
In the coming quarters we will be announcing several senior level retirements.
While the exact timing of each departure has not been finalized they will be staggered to ensure a smooth and effective transition.
We have given much thought to the broader succession plan and the incoming executive team will possess the knowledge experience and leadership necessary to carry CenterPoint Energy forward.
We are in the process of finalizing all of the related personnel moves and will be ready to share more details regarding the incoming leadership team in the near future.
With the upcoming change in leadership and the creation of Enable Midstream Partners we've taken the opportunity to refresh our vision and strategy.
Our work acknowledges and builds upon a great heritage of success but appropriately reflects our change portfolio and the business conditions we face today and anticipate to face in the future.
We look forward to sharing it with you early next year.
In the meantime we will continue to focus on what we do well: Grow and operate safe and reliable utilities.
I am honored to have the opportunity to build on David's success and I'm excited about the bright future of CenterPoint Energy.
And with that Carla I'll turn the call over to you.
Thank you Scott.
As a reminder since the midstream partnership plans to pursue an IPO we are restricted by SEC regulations in the details that we can discuss.
[Operator Instructions] Mackenzie? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
So it sounds like a lot of the changes will be coming in the next 12 months or so.
Is there going to be -- or do we expect an analyst day or something early next year? And will there be any allusions to changes in the company at EEI next week? Andrew this is Scott.
We have been contemplating an Analyst day but we have not yet put one -- formalized one and put in place but we have been having conversations internally about that.
As far as the meeting at EEI or the discussions at EEI we'll be able to talk a bit about how we're seeing things evolve but suffice it to say we have got a great strategy to date and our changes and what we're going to focus on in the future I think are going to be fairly intuitive in terms of our focus around utility.
Okay.
I'll keep my next questions a little more short-term oriented then.
In terms of Enable the CEO announcement hopefully will be coming soon.
How should we think about the timing between that and the S-1 being filed? I know you can't get too specific but it is fair to assume that the incoming CEO and CFO will need some time to get comfortable with the numbers before the S-1 as printed? I don't think before it's printed Andrew.
I think we'll file the S-1.
That's our intention.
Obviously before we go out on the road and market the IPO we'd want the CEO and CFO in place and completely familiar and brought into our plans.
But the -- we have a strong management team today.
They are putting together the financial plans that will be reflected in the S-1.
So I think we're in good shape today.
But obviously before early next year or during the first quarter we need to have that CEO CFO in place.
Okay that's helpful.
Then on the electric utility usage trend I probably ask this every quarter but I see the account growth is strong at 2%.
How should we think about the weather normalized load growth because you said it was a benefit? Yes.
Andrew I think the way to think about weather normalized we're seeing usage on a weather normalized basis to be more or less flat.
Weather calculations -- or weather normalization calculations can be a little tricky at times and they're not perfect in terms of precision.
So you may see some noise up or down on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
But as we look over the long term we see usage remaining about even on a weather-adjusted basis.
Okay great.
Then lastly the O&amp;M trends at the utilities both electric and gas if you can sort of give any high-level thoughts on the magnitude of the year-over-year changes that we've been seeing in recent quarters and maybe an early look at what next year's O&amp;M trends might look like? No we target our O&amp;M in kind of the 2% to 3% range and short of some timing issues where we might be moving some expenses around from quarter-to-quarter.
I think we track on that.
I think what may be clouding the numbers a little bit is the key costs expense that's in electric.
If you pull that out the remaining expense the O&amp;M those types of things is more around 2.5%.
The key costs expense in there has an offset in revenue.
Our next question is from Matt Tucker at KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question you mentioned the S-1 filing should occur this quarter.
Should we expect it to be kind of almost any day now this month or closer to the end of the year? Any more color you can give us on the timing there? I would say it would be anytime between later this month and the mid-Feb-- mid-December.
We're not going to wait until the end of December to file it but I think it's getting very close.
So our intent is to file it as soon as we got every T crossed and I dotted but we are very close.
Research Division</strong> And then now that you had a full quarter of operations at the partnership any update on your expectations for realizing synergies there? And do you feel like you've already started to realize synergies today? I think we have more clarity around it.
Over the last quarter we put a full management team in place from the top down through a number of levels.
We're starting to get more clarity around asset synergies where we can start utilizing the different assets of the 2 entities to create value for the partnership.
There is more -- a lot more clarity around that.
And clearly we're going to have some more cost synergies as we move forward.
Those we've made some progress on but that's mainly a 2014 2015 kind of event as we reshape the way we -- services are delivered to the partnership.
A lot of them will be moving away from the parent company and put into partnership.
And we expect we're going to find a fair amount of savings when that happens.
Research Division</strong> Great that's very helpful.
And just last question on the weather hedge at CenterPoint Houston could you elaborate a little bit on the economics that make them attractive options this year? Yes the hedge is structured where we value heating degree [ph] day.
And depending on whether that's favorable for us or against us we hedge about 80% of that value.
So the idea is that if it's favorable for us there is a payment to the counterparty.
If it's not favorable for us they would pay us.
But the reason it works for us and we entered into one is it's -- when you pick the strike points on this the economics are such that it's evenly balanced up or down.
So it ends up just being a way to essentially no implied costs or very little implied costs.
It's a way to protect against variability if we were to have extreme weather.
Our next question is from Charles Fishman at MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> The transmission options that you've proposed to ERCOT is that incremental to your previously disclosed capital expenditures for Houston Electric? And I guess specifically does that change the 5% CAGR rate base growth? Yes Charles that investment would be incremental to what we have previously published in terms of our capital plan.
So to the extent that those materialize it would increase our overall investment and our rate base and therefore our earnings over the longer term.
Research Division</strong> And could you give a range of the 3 options? Well they're all -- physically they are all in the same region.
And the difference between them would be the starting point in our territory and the termination point either in somebody else's territory or another part of our own territory.
But they're all in the northwest portion of our region.
And the difference in price is associated with the difference in length between the 2 endpoints.
Research Division</strong> And let's say the lowest cost option versus the highest cost can you -- have you disclosed that in...
Well as I mentioned I think the range of the $300 million to the $550 million represents range of the options.
Our next question is from Sarah Akers with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any change to your thoughts on when the MLP will be accretive to standalone CenterPoint EPS? Are you still thinking about 2015? Sarah I think that's right.
We haven't really looked at that since we made that disclosure in our last call but I feel -- I think we feel pretty comfortable that it'll be accretive in the 2015 time frame.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one question on the Bakken are you seeing the work that Enable is doing there generating additional discussions with other developers in that area? Yes we are.
We are looking at other opportunities in that region.
And it is generated because of the work we're doing for XTO Exxon Mobil in that area.
So yes I think we are seeing more interest in us doing that kind of project as a result of not only getting this one but we've made really good progress.
We've made certain commitments and we've been able to deliver on those commitments.
I think our engineering and construction has been excellent.
And I think that all helps when you're out looking at other projects.
Our next question is from Steven Fleishman at Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So first I'm just curious if you have any better sense or thought process on how you might look at dividend policy next year with the MLP being effective in getting the dividends from it? No Steve.
This is Gary.
I think it's just as we said in the previous quarter.
Clearly going forward I think the way to think about our dividend policy will be the earnings from the regulated utilities would certainly pay a portion of that.
And then I do think that in terms of the cash distributions our objective most likely will be to pay a significant portion of those cash earnings to our shareholders.
So but the specifics of that I'll ask you to please wait until the first quarter and we will be much more clear on our policy in the first quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just also on the electric and gas utility businesses rough sense of kind of updated views on rate base growth potential over the next 3 to 5 years? Well Steven I think the last we had said was it is going to be in the 3 -- depending on the utility in the 3% to 5% range in terms of rate base or in terms of growth.
And on the -- that's on electric.
And then the gas side may be slightly higher.
I can tell you as we are modifying and going through the planning process today and we're looking at capital requirements going forward there tends to be a drive given all the growth that we see towards.
That number may be moving north as opposed to south.
So we've still got strong investment opportunities and we're going to continue to have strong rate base growth as a result of that.
Our next question is from John Tiani [ph] at Calendar Capital [ph].
Considering the delay and the difficulty in hiring a CEO and filing the S-1 why not consider the transaction that Devin at crossed text did [ph]? Can you help us understand why you don't think that's a better way to maximize the value of Enable for shareholders? John I don't think we ever commented on that transaction but we continue to look at alternative ways.
And if there's another way to get public and create more shareholder for our value we'll certainly consider that.
But that specific transaction I don't think it's appropriate for us to comment on.
The idea of joining with an existing public entity is not something that we haven't looked at or considered.
[Operator Instructions] Our last question is from Ali Agha at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> David can you give us some insight into why it's taking longer than expected to get a CEO in place for the MLP? Is it getting the right financial incentives? Is there an issue about strategy? I mean just give us some insight into why it's taking so long.
Ali let me give a few general comments.
It isn't about money and it's not about strategy.
I think the folks we talked to they look at what we've created here and they see the value creation potential and they get excited about it.
Now I will tell you that this is a fairly small universe of executives we look at.
Most of them are working executives that have a job today.
There's all kinds of things that come up in these discussions from the time you start until you time you finish.
And we just haven't been able to connect on with the right person yet.
But we still have a lot of interest about people in it.
We're still working actively.
But this isn't about us saying we're not going to pay enough money or somebody looks at our strategy and goes "Gosh I don't want to be any part of that." It's just -- it's a small universe of executives that really -- because this is something that a company that's large it's has a lot of complexity but it has a lot of opportunity and we need to have the right person to execute on our strategy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when I look at the kind of rate base growth numbers you guys talked about on the regulated side in that 3% to 5% -- or 4% to 5% range and what you see your equity ownership contributing on the MLP side can you remind us again when we look at it on a combined basis what kind of long-term annualized earnings growth should be produced by CenterPoint going forward? Ali this is Scott.
I think the way I think of this is we've got the earnings contributions of the utility which are fairly straightforward in terms of how we've communicated our rate base growth and our recovery.
And that ends up being in the 3% to 5% type range.
And then we've got the earnings contributions associated with the midstream venture.
And that is going to have a higher growth rate.
But what is the most important from a value creation standpoint is the cash that's generated from the entity and how that manifests itself in our dividend growth profile and -- so I think there's a distinction between the earnings growth rate and the dividend profile that's going to really be the indicator I think that the latter being the indicator of the value that comes from the combined entity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I see got it.
And last question just to clarify David to your point that you made earlier.
So as you look at the Enable assets did I hear you right that you've looked at potentially other ways to take it public but feel that the standalone IPO is still the best option? Or did I not hear you right and you're looking at other options besides the standalone IPO? I just want to be clear about what you're saying.
Let me just say this Ali.
We are moving ahead full speed on our own IPO and make -- doing it public but that doesn't rule out any other alternatives either.
We continue to look as we push forward 100%.
We are -- if something would come along and we think it's a better alternative we would execute on that but we're not going to slow down this term process.
We will now end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today.
We appreciate your support and have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Conference Call with Senior Management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you very much Thea.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2013 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Electric Vice President and President Gas Division; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2013 results and provide highlights on other key activities.
We also have other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release Form 10-K and supplemental materials are posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investor section.
The supplemental materials are for informational purposes and we will not be referring to them during the prepared remarks.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
Before Scott begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through Wednesday March 5.
To access the replay please call (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 29333655.
You can also listen to an online replay on our website and we will archive the call for at least one year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you Carla and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning we reported full earnings -- full year earnings of $311 million or $0.72 per diluted share as compared to $417 million or $0.97 per diluted share in 2012.
I'd like to remind you of the unusual items that occurred during each year.
As you may recall effective May 1 of 2013 our midstream assets became part of Enable Midstream Partners.
As a result in 2013 we recorded a noncash deferred tax charge as well as certain partnership formation expenses.
In the third quarter of 2012 we recorded a noncash goodwill impairment charge as well as a noncash pretax gain from an acquisition.
Excluding the effects of these unusual items net income for 2013 would have been $544 million or $1.26 per diluted share compared to $581 million or $1.35 per diluted share in 2012.
Using the same basis that we use when providing guidance full year adjusted earnings would have been $1.20 per diluted share in 2013 compared to $1.25 for 2012.
As a result of the formation of Enable Midstream Partners the way we present our financial results has changed.
We will point out these changes in the course of our call today to help you better understand CenterPoint's overall financial performance both [ph] for 2013 and for the future.
In discussing our financial results we will refer to our equity investment in midstream as midstream investments and to the remainder of our businesses as utility operations.
The benefit of our diversified utility portfolio was again seen in 2013.
Our natural gas utilities had a record year which helped offset a modest decline in our electric utility resulting primarily from a return to more normal weather.
In 2013 we invested nearly $1.2 billion in our utility operations up 22% from the prior year to address increasing demands associated with growth reliability and ongoing maintenance.
Overall we experienced solid financial and operational performances from our utilities.
With the changes in company leadership and the formation of Enable the time is right to refresh our vision and strategy.
CenterPoint Energy's new corporate vision is to lead the nation in delivering energy service and value.
Compared to our prior vision this version emphasizes our desire to serve evolving customer needs while creating value for our shareholders employees and communities.
This vision also reflects a focus on effectively operating and investing in our utility operations as well as taking an active role in governing our investment in Enable.
We are committed to providing both stability and growth from our utility operations while capturing the growth associated with midstream investments.
Our new corporate strategy is simply stated: operate serve and grow.
This updated strategy incorporates the company's competitive advantages in technology implementation process innovation customer service and regulatory relationships.
First we operate billions of dollars of assets that people rely on every day to serve their energy needs.
These energy delivery systems must work reliably and safely.
Second we serve over 5.6 million customers who expect efficient and effective interactions as we address their needs.
And third we continue to grow our investments to address customer growth system hardening and replacement of aging infrastructure.
The effective execution of this strategy over the next 5 years will allow us to target a normalized compound utility annual earnings growth rate of 4% to 6%.
Recently I announced that Tracy Bridge and Joe McGoldrick were named executive vice presidents and members of the company's executive committee.
While both have been given additional responsibilities Tracy will continue to lead our electric business and Joe will continue his leadership role over our natural gas businesses.
During this call you will hear from Tracy and Joe as they discuss their businesses' 2013 performance and provide an outlook for 2014.
I'll now turn the call over to Tracy.
Thank you Scott.
Our Houston Electric service territory is located in one of the most economically vibrant metro areas in the country and benefits from a 5.5% unemployment rate the lowest since 2008.
We have experienced strong and consistent customer growth both residential and commercial since our inception as CenterPoint Energy in 2002.
This growth is occurring not only from increasing housing starts but also from the expansion of the Port of Houston and new commercial developments in our service territory.
Forecasts indicate we can expect these trends to continue.
We have made significant investments in advanced meter systems and intelligent grid technology which not only make our operations more efficient they make our customer interactions more productive.
Through these technologies we can more easily identify and resolve problems.
We can proactively communicate with our customers about the status of their electric service during an outage.
Further we are able to remotely start stop and transfer service through our advanced meter system usually eliminating the need to dispatch a truck to the customer's premise.
We are proud to be a leader in grid automation.
Houston Electric's 2013 financial performance was strong and in line with our expectations.
Core operating income was $474 million compared to $492 million in 2012.
The addition of nearly 45 000 customers in 2013 contributed $26 million of incremental revenue.
We also benefited from approximately $30 million of right-of-way revenue which was slightly more than the prior record set in 2012 and almost 10x more than our historic norms.
These increases were more than offset by a return to more normal weather as well as higher operation and maintenance expense depreciation and taxes.
To better serve this growing service territory Houston Electric invested $759 million of capital which was up 27% from the prior year.
We expect 2014 to be another solid year.
Houston Electric will continue to benefit from 2% customer growth and we expect to invest $780 million of capital.
Our 5-year capital plan is expected to exceed $3.6 billion and will be used to improve service reliability and system resiliency enhance our customer service systems and support normal load growth and system maintenance.
As a reminder this capital plan does not include any investment in the transmission import project proposal we mentioned on our previous call.
Should ERCOT recommend one of CenterPoint's proposed projects we would initiate an approval proceeding with the Texas PUC later this year.
We expect increases in operating expenses to be slightly higher than normal in 2014 as we implement specific initiatives focused on grid reliability and safety.
We also expect a reduction in right-of-way revenue from approximately $30 million in 2013 down to $10 million to $20 million this year.
This range remains well above historic norms although we anticipate a trend toward more normal levels over the next several years.
Joe McGoldrick will now update you on gas operations.
Thank you Tracy.
For the past several years our natural gas utilities have worked diligently to build an efficient and effective business model while growing earnings.
We have implemented a number of regulatory mechanisms that are now producing a predictable amount of annual incremental revenue with reduced regulatory lag.
We've also continued an expense management effort that has resulted in essentially no change in our O&amp;M expenses over the past 5 years when pass-through expenses associated with energy efficiency programs are excluded.
And our credit and collection processes continue to effectively limit bad debt expenses.
Collectively these efforts to manage business performances have paid off as evidenced by the doubling of operating income in 7 years and record operating income reported today for our natural gas utilities in 2013.
None of these improvements were made at the expense of operations.
In fact reliability safety and customer service have all improved over that time.
Operating income in 2013 was $263 million as compared to $226 million in 2012.
Rate relief growth cost management efforts and a return to normal weather compared to an extremely mild 2012 resulted in a strong operational performance.
Moreover as a result of our weather hedging strategy and weather normalization adjustments in some jurisdictions we saw only a small net benefit from increased usage due to weather in 2013.
An important point is that structural changes coupled with innovative rate mechanisms resulted in record financial performance without relying on significantly increased weather-related usage.
Like Houston Electric our natural gas utilities had a significant capital program in 2013 investing $430 million a 20% increase over 2012.
The customer count in our service area grew at an average of 1% in 2013 driven by robust growth in our largest service areas of Houston and Minneapolis.
These benefits were partially offset by an expected increase in bad debt expenses associated with colder weather as well as higher depreciation and tax expense.
In 2014 our natural gas utilities expect to add more than 30 000 new customers.
Moreover we expect to invest $520 million this year an additional 20% increase over last year's investment.
Our 5-year capital plan is expected to exceed $2.2 billion and will target safety and reliability-related infrastructure growth and system modernization.
On the regulatory front there are 3 items I would like to mention.
First our Minnesota rate case was heard by an administrative law judge in January 2014 and we expect a final decision by the Public Utilities Commission by mid-summer.
Second in December we resolved a rate inquiry by the City of Houston without a need for further proceedings.
And third the Texas Supreme Court has confirmed that the Texas Railroad Commission had the authority to approve a Cost of Service Adjustment rider or COSA which we utilized from 2009 to 2011.
We expect this decision will eliminate the potential to refund amounts collected under that rider.
Our Energy Services business reported 2013 operating income of $13 million as compared to $2 million in 2012 after excluding the 2012 goodwill impairment charge.
After adjusting for annual mark-to-market changes and onetime items primarily the 2012 sale of a nonstrategic asset Energy Services operating income grew by $4 million in 2013.
The increased customer count and sales volumes in 2013 were partially offset by lower unit margins in more competitive markets.
As part of our gas operations group this business supports customer needs through tailored commodity solutions.
We expect this business to provide between $15 million and $25 million of annual operating income during the planning horizon.
I'll now turn the call back to Scott who will discuss our investment in Enable.
Thank you Joe.
Once Enable Midstream Partners becomes a publicly traded company it's our expectation that they will publicly provide their financial and operational results.
Accordingly in the future we will generally limit the discussion in our earnings releases and calls to our portion of Enable's equity earnings and the cash distributions we receive from the partnership.
However in this call we will provide a high-level discussion of Enable's performance although as you know we are limited in what we can say due to their pending S-1 filing.
For the 8-month period from May 1 of 2013 when Enable was formed through December 31 of 2013 CenterPoint Energy recognized $173 million of equity earnings from our investment in Enable and an additional $8 million from our remaining ownership in SESH.
We also received cash distributions of approximately $106 million from Enable and $23 million from SESH during 2013.
In February of this year we received a cash distribution of approximately $67 million associated with Enable's fourth quarter results.
In total our cash distribution related to Enable's 2013 performance is $173 million for the 8 months of May to December.
During the past year Enable's transportation and storage segment continued to be challenged by ongoing low seasonal and geographic price differentials which reduced the demand for ancillary services and adversely impacted certain contract renewals.
Enable's gathering and processing segment had a solid year despite relatively low commodity prices for most of the year and reduced gathering activity in the dry gas basins.
Processing volumes however have continued to increase as a result of system expansions in its wet gas regions.
As you know Lynn Bourdon became Enable's CEO at the beginning of February.
We're excited to have Lynn in place and believe the strength of his broad industry experience and his high-energy leadership style are well-suited to ensure Enable reaches its full potential.
Through the efforts of Lynn and his team good progress is being made toward the planned IPO.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary who can provide an update on financial activities.
Thank you Scott and good morning to everyone.
Before discussing various CenterPoint financial items I would like to mention that Enable Midstream Partners recently filed a second amendment to its S-1 registration statement and is continuing to progress towards an initial public offering.
Our goal remains to have an interest in a publicly traded master limited partnership.
Given applicable SEC requirements we are limited in what we can discuss regarding Enable and its IPO.
Now let me update you on the recent CenterPoint Energy-related activity.
As you know the company has benefited from a number of favorable actions by the rating agencies in 2013.
In January of this year Moody's more favorable view of the relative credit supportiveness of the U.S.
regulatory environment was reflected in its upgrade of the debt of CenterPoint Energy Inc.
and Houston Electric.
CenterPoint Energy's senior unsecured debt is now rated BAA1 and the mortgage bonds of Houston Electric are now rated A1.
Now I would like to discuss our earnings guidance range for 2014 which takes into consideration a number of economic and operational variables that may impact the actual earnings performance.
Effective with the formation of Enable Midstream Partners we recorded our portion of the midstream partnership's earnings using the equity method of accounting.
Therefore our earnings per diluted share for 2014 represents the booked after-tax earnings we record from our utility operation and the booked after-tax earnings we record from midstream investments.
We estimate earnings from our utility operations inclusive of the parent company to be in the range of $0.68 to $0.72 per diluted share for 2014.
The utility operations guidance range considers significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings volumes commodity prices ancillary services effective tax rate and financing activity.
We estimate earnings -- equity earnings from our midstream investment to be in the range of approximately $280 million and $315 million or $0.40 to $0.45 per diluted share for 2014.
This guidance includes our 58.3% ownership interest in Enable Midstream; our retained 25.05% interest in SESH; and the amortization of our basis difference in Enable.
This guidance does not include any gains or losses that result from Enable's selling unit or dilution associated with Enable's issuance of limited partnership units and its planned initial public offering.
The midstream investment's guidance range considers significant variables that may impact earnings such as commodity prices volume throughput ancillary services weather regulatory proceedings effective tax rate financing activity and potential net synergies realized once the partnership operations are fully integrated.
Our consolidated estimate of earnings on a guidance basis for the full year 2014 is in the range of $1.08 to $1.17 per diluted share.
We have assumed a consolidated effective tax rate of approximately 36% including a 38% tax rate for Enable's earnings an average share count of approximately 431 million shares and lower interest expense.
In addition the company does not include the impact of any changes in accounting standards any impact to earnings from the change in the value of the Time Warner stocks and the related [indiscernible] securities or the timing effects of mark-to-market and inventory accounting in the company's Energy Services business.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
In closing I would like to remind you of our revised dividend policy and the $0.2375 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on January 20.
This represented a 14.5% increase from our 2013 quarterly dividend.
Our objective is to provide a quarterly cash dividend that is supported by the long-term stability and growth of our utility operation combined with the growth in the distributable cash flow from Enable.
Our intention is to target a payout ratio of 60% to 70% of sustainable earnings from our utility operation and 90% to 100% of the net after-tax cash distributions we receive from Enable.
We believe this revised policy represents our strong commitment to shareholders and the confidence we have in the underlying growth prospects for our utility operations and cash distributions from Enable.
Thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint Energy and now I'll turn the call back over to Carla.
Thank you Gary.
In answering your questions I'd like to remind you that since Enable is in the process of pursuing an IPO we are restricted by SEC regulations in what we can discuss regarding the partnership.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thea? [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question the amortization of the basis difference could you give us that number for 2013 and what you expect it to be for 2014? For 2013 it was a partial year so it was about $5 million.
Going forward Matt it's going to be $7 million and you'll see that described in our 10-K as well.
So it's going to be amortized over 30 years and approximately $7 million per year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I probably missed this but did the guidance assume normal weather and I guess normal weather for the full year or kind of actual weather year-to-date and normal weather going forward? Matt the guidance we gave was inclusive of what we've experienced to date.
So we do have some feel for the relative favorability that we've seen so far.
So that has been factored in.
But we still have the summer in front of us Matt which you know has its implications.
So it's worth noting the balance of the year is assumed to be at normal.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just last one could you provide a little more of an update on your transmission proposals and kind of the timeline for that this year? Tracy do you want to take this? I will.
Matt as you may know we've submitted several proposals to ERCOT for consideration.
We're expecting a decision in the second quarter of this year and if we are fortunate enough to receive ERCOT's recommendation we will then proceed to the Public Utilities Commission of Texas for authorization to build that line.
So we're in a watch-and-wait mode right now and we're optimistic that one of our proposals may be included in ERCOT's recommendation.
Matt it's also probably safe to note the PUC process take upwards of a year after we make our submission.
So the submission to the commission would be later this year and they can take up to a year to decide.
The next question will come from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Actually maybe just chewing off that last question could you -- I know you said you all submitted a range of several proposals could you refresh my memory of what the range of invested capital would be for those proposals? Yes.
Carl roughly the range is somewhere between $300 million and $600 million given the options involved.
And keep in mind that some of those options would have us sharing some of the investment with potentially with other parties who are involved in the project.
Fair enough.
But that is -- but just to be clear that is outside right now of the current 5-year budget? That is correct.
That's not included at all in our budget.
A couple questions then.
The first is just to try and clarify because of the dividend policy with respect to the payout on utility and the 90% to 100% of the after-tax cash distributions from Enable Gary what should we be using as a cash tax rate for Enable from your all's standpoint? That's a good question Carl.
I think you should use around 15% to 17% and let me describe why.
In the early years I'm going to look in sort of a 5 year horizon these cash taxes are lower in the early part and they then rise to a higher rate.
So I think if you use 15% to 17% that's sort of a sweet spot.
We have to think about it as we think setting our dividend policy over a little longer horizon than just the current cash tax.
Is that helpful? Understood.
Very helpful.
And then maybe last question if I could.
And certainly Joe you addressed the outlook for Energy Services within the planning horizon and maybe no more needs to be said.
But I think back few years we were looking at a little bit higher number for what the potential run rate of Energy Services could be once we removed some of the volatility of the wholesale and sort of left it to the retail marketing.
And is that just a function essentially of a more competitive market or is there something else going on that should we should be aware of? Carl I think you answered part of the question.
And clearly the market is more competitive so that is impacting our margins somewhat.
But also we don't look like we did say 4 or 5 years ago.
We had some assets back then that we were able to take advantage of when you had the sort of volatility that frankly we're seeing again this winter but we don't have the ability to capture those margins any longer because as you recall our intent was to de-risk this business and make it a true retail sales business.
The next question will come from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Another question on the dividend growth here.
You said from Enable it will be 90% to 100% of after-tax cash proceeds.
Does that include only proceeds relative to the LP units or would that also include cash from the General Partner IDRs? No.
Those are the -- the cash from the general partnership IDR is yet to be determined further down the road.
At this point I think you think of it as our LP interest the 58.3% yes.
And any potential cash from the GP would be -- to be determined what you'd do with that cash [indiscernible] CenterPoint fund? I think that's -- yes.
I think that's right Andrew to be determined.
But I think of it -- look our dividend policy is very clear.
Cash flows from Enable will be on a 90% to 100% on an after-tax basis to our shareholders.
I'm just saying in the near term the GP obviously we don't have the benefit of those IDRs we will eventually.
So I think dramatically and the board will make those determinations at that time.
I think Enable cash flows fundamentally will go to our shareholders.
Okay.
Great.
And then gas utilities can you just remind us which ones have some form of weather decoupling or normalization and which have benefited from weather year-to-date? Sure.
We now have weather normalization adjustments in our Arkansas Louisiana Oklahoma and Mississippi jurisdictions.
And those operate through the performance-based mechanisms that exist in those states.
Now as you know those are our smallest jurisdictions of our states.
So Minnesota is clearly our most weather-dependent LDC that we have and has the most volumetric rates as well.
So that's why we continue to hedge weather in both Minnesota and primarily in Texas where we also do not have a WNA.
Okay.
Great.
And then the last question is any commentary on the gas retail marketing business year-to-date through these cold stretches? Well we're seeing obviously this -- the volatility that's been discussed already and some very high peak prices.
We've been able to take advantage of some of that but also there are times when those are costs to you as well.
So net-net I wouldn't say it has had a material impact on our sales businesses in the year-to-date.
One.
Great.
And then sorry one last one if I can squeeze it in.
The electric utility in Houston.
Clearly very strong account growth and usage trends.
But you're also investing a lot of money based on the CapEx.
So any high-level thoughts on when the next rate case might be necessary? And will the earnings grow between now and then or will it just be a function of the ROE falling? Andrew we will see earnings grow between now and the end of the period.
The need for a formal rate proceeding is really pushed out because of the mechanisms that we have coupled with just the growth that we're experiencing.
So we get $25 million to $30 million of new revenue each year just off of growth.
And then using the capital covering mechanisms we have in electric around the transmission and the distribution side we can pursue timely recovery for 90 -- over 90% of our capital that we spend there.
So we've got those mechanisms that are going to keep us out of needing to file a formal rate case during this window of our plan.
Meaning 5 years? Yes correct.
[Operator Instructions] The next question will come from Faisel Khan with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I don't know if you had this in your prepared remarks or not.
But given the spending plans you have at the utilities over the next few years what kind of growth rate do you expect out of this sort of $0.68 to $0.72 number that you gave out for '14? So what's sort of the long-term growth trajectory of these earnings given the spending plans you have in the electric and gas utilities? I did comment but I'll just reiterate those -- my remarks.
We see that with the plan we have in place that we would grow that utility earnings by about 4% to 6% over the planned period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
And in the 2014 guidance do you have any right of easement grants in that number as well? What is that number? We have assumed that it would fall to somewhere between 10 to 20 is what we had commented on.
If you take a midpoint it probably gives you a pretty good feel for what we think it may be.
But I can tell you as we've told you in the past this can be very very uncertain in terms of both the timing and the amounts.
Hence the reason we gave a range.
So it's very difficult to target a point value but we think it's going to be dropping off although it is going to stay above what we had seen on a historic basis.
Research Division</strong> And can you remind us what drives this sort of revenue out of this particular sort of source of income? There are a number of companies and pipelines that are trying to put infrastructure in from the shale plays which are outside of the Houston territory and they're generally trying to get commodity over to the Houston Ship Channel.
And the only way to get to the Houston Ship Channel through pipelines is to go through the city and our right-of-ways present a great opportunity for them to get their pipes in.
The next question will come from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Could you remind us corresponding to the equity income or earnings that you budgeted from Enable for 2014 what's the distributed cash flow that comes from that? With the pending offering I don't think it's appropriate to discuss the distributed cash flow.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because the S-1 gives numbers I think on a 12-month basis from March to March so I was wondering is there a calendar '14 update or how we should think of that? Well I think when you think of our earnings guidance I mean Ali we have taken into consideration what I would call the full year '14.
As you just described the S-1 is following normal protocol it has 9 months of '14 and then 3 months of '15.
So we've made our assumptions and we've made our assumptions around those variables of course in including -- in determining our guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Scott to you from your vantage point from the CEO position what's the current appetite for CenterPoint for additional regulated utility M&amp;A at this point? Ali I think the story you'll hear will be consistent with what you heard in the past and that is we are interested in opportunities to make an acquisition if the opportunity presents itself.
Now we know it's tough in this space to do this but we also know that we're going to be very discerning in terms of doing the analytics and making sure that what we would pursue is strategically aligned.
And it would be done at a value that would be accretive to our shareholders.
So we remain interested in it but it's difficult to do in this space.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My last question Scott again to you.
I mean as you talked about you're looking at 4% to 6% EPS growth for the regulated business presumably Enable will add to that as well.
Corresponding to that how should we think about dividend growth for you? The investment grade that you've made to us on the investment side would be what in terms of earnings and dividend right now? The way we think about that we obviously didn't give you a dividend growth rate and pretty simple.
There are a number of moving parts here that's going to be throughout this year going to have significant more transparency around them.
So we've tried to provide a policy that's very clear to investors.
If you can see then the -- what I would call the significant inherent growth in the dividend as Enable grows and the clear policy around the distribution of cash and then the investment we make in the utility and the ability to grow the utility earnings.
So we think our policy really speaks to -- what we think will be really terrific frankly going forward dividend growth.
But we're not committed to an exact percentage around this.
So I really think you look at the policy and then focus on the growth in the utility and then what we expect is -- will be strong performance by Enable as they execute their business plan over the longer term.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Gary what's the timing of the IPO? Last question.
I can't comment on the -- I can't comment on that.
Sorry.
The next question will come from Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> Two questions.
First just to clarify is the utility 2014 of $0.68 to $0.72 is it clean based for the 4% to 6% growth rate? Yes it is a good clean base.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then secondly just the 15% to 17% cash tax rate on the Enable distribution that CenterPoint has is that a number that will stay in that range for a number of years or does it go up over time? Steve the way I'm providing that is the way we have to look at it because there's timing.
The timing as I mentioned on an earlier question that the rates actually start less than 10% but they then ratchet up over I'm going to look at a 5-year timeframe.
If you average that it's a 15% to 17% and that's kind of the way we have to think about it.
So we will distribute the cash trying to have what I'd describe as a normalized cash rate.
But yes I think that's the way you think about it certainly in the foreseeable future it's 15% to 17%.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But in 2014 it's more actually more like 10%? Well it's less than 15% to 17%.
And then in years after this it increases.
And again I'd just caution you these are always complex issues around tax and tax laws can change and it's always going to be a variable.
But absolutely in terms of the policy what we're shooting for and our objective is to distribute the after-tax cash from Enable to our shareholders.
The next question is from Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> The 20% plus jump in natural gas distribution CapEx '14 versus '13 is that driven by customer growth or are you accelerating some of your line replacement? What is -- what's going on there? Joe do you want to take this? Sure.
We have grown the capital program in our gas LDCs for the last several years.
5 6 years ago it only averaged about $200 million and now we're closer to $400 million.
It's really -- there is some growth capital in there no doubt but a lot of it is being driven by infrastructure replacement and a pipeline integrity regulation.
As you're aware after San Bruno a lot of things have ratcheted up and so we are making a major investment and replacing a transmission pipe that loops the City of Minneapolis.
And so there's a lot of safety and reliability-related infrastructure investments that we're making across all of our LDCs.
Research Division</strong> So the incremental between '14 and '13 it sounds like it's really that transmission line replacement around Minneapolis is being accelerated? That's a lot of it.
In addition too we continue with our automated meter reading program that continues to replace the old meters with new meters so we can read them remotely.
And so there's a number of things but clearly the pipeline integrity investment is a large portion of the increase.
Research Division</strong> And of the $521 million for this year roughly what portion is covered by rate trackers? Approximately 50%.
Our final question is from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Actually I think most have been hit.
Gary let me -- one other this might be a little arcane but if Comcast actually buys Time Warner does that impact [indiscernible] at all? It does not impact the [indiscernible].
What it does it really substitutes another share.
As you know we started with one reference share now we have 3 companies so you'll have -- at this point we have Time Warner Cable and now once they merge it will be Comcast or whatever.
But it's just another reference share.
The final question will come from Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
Any thoughts or comments on the 2 CFO searches for Enable and CenterPoint? I don't know what you're up to Andrew.
I'm still here buddy.
Didn't you say last year that this would be your last year? No well I'm teasing but I'll let Scott speak to both of those.
Yes.
Well clearly Gary is still here and he plans to be here for some additional time.
So there's nothing underway in terms of finding his replacement at the current -- right now.
We will be doing that at some point but that will be later in the year.
Okay.
My mistake Gary.
I wasn't suggesting anything.
With respect to Enable we are actively working on the CFO.
I believe we're getting close.
We haven't made an announcement.
But we do believe we're getting close with all the activity underway.
Lynn is active in that and he's leading that process and Gary and John [ph] are both involved in that as well.
But we're making good progress there and hopefully we're fairly close on that.
With that we will now end the call.
Thank you for participating today.
We appreciate your support and have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our first quarter of 2014 results and provide highlights on other key activities.
Also present are other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Our earnings press release and the Form 10-Q are posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
These materials are for informational purposes and we will not be referring to them during prepared remarks.
I remind you that any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filings with the SEC.
With the formation of Enable Midstream Partners the way we present our financial results have changed.
In discussing our financial results we will refer to our equity investment in Enable and SESH as midstream investments and the remainder of our businesses as utility operations.
Before Scott begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through Thursday May 8.
To access the replay please call (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 20029308 [ph].
You can also listen to an online replay of our -- replay on our website and we will archive the call for at least 1 year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you Carla and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning we reported first quarter 2014 earnings of $185 million or $0.43 per diluted share as compared to $147 million or $0.34 per diluted share in 2013.
Using the same basis that we use when providing guidance first quarter 2014 adjusted earnings would have been $0.40 per diluted share compared to $0.31 for 2013.
Utility operations contributed $0.27 of the $0.40 per diluted share and midstream investments contributed $0.13.
This was an excellent quarter for our diversified energy delivery portfolio.
Core operating income for our utility operations was up quarter-over-quarter by $73 million or 38% driven by cold weather customer growth and rate increases as well as weather-related basis volatility benefiting Energy Services.
Our delivery systems operated well under extended extreme weather conditions.
Our natural gas utilities received top quartile ratings in the most recent J.D.
Power customer survey.
We also have expanded Houston Electric's power alert service which provides proactive communication to residential electric consumers when their service is affected.
We invested $286 million during the quarter for growth reliability system modernization customer service and ongoing maintenance.
We are on track to invest almost $1.4 billion of capital by year end.
The effective execution of our strategy over the next 5 years will support our goal of growing utility operations earnings 4% to 6% annually.
Our midstream investments segment reported equity income of $91 million in the first quarter: $88 million from our pre-IPO 58% interest in Enable Midstream Partners and $3 million from our 25% interest in SESH.
This month marked a significant milestone for Enable as it began trading as a public company on April 11.
I would like to compliment the Enable management team for their hard work and dedication which resulted in a successful IPO.
We are excited about the future prospects for Enable which is an important long-term component of our diversified energy delivery portfolio.
As board numbers Gary Whitlock and I will work with our fellow board members to provide strategic direction and oversight as Enable executes its strategy and business plan.
Yesterday Enable issued a first quarter press release and held an earnings call to review the drivers for its first quarter performance.
I'll refer you to those materials for a more detailed explanation of Enable's results.
This summer we will be holding an Analyst Day at the New York Stock Exchange.
We look forward to introducing our extended management team and discussing CenterPoint's investment and valuation theses including our expectations for our 5-year forecasted dividend growth rate.
For those not attending in person the event will be webcast and archived.
We're off to a good start in 2014 and continue to implement our strategy which emphasizes operational excellence and utility growth.
I will now turn the call over to Tracy.
Thank you Scott.
Houston Electric's first quarter 2014 core operating income was $75 million compared to $49 million for the same period last year an increase of $26 million.
The business benefited from increased usage due to cold weather right-of-way revenues and customer growth.
Increases in operations and maintenance expense as well as property taxes partially offset the gains in revenue.
Similar to other parts of the country the weather in our service territory was colder than normal and residential usage was up about 16% compared to last year.
Net of the weather hedge we put in place for this past winter season first quarter weather-related usage increased operating income by $14 million compared to last year.
When compared to normal weather operating income increased by $7 million.
Third-party interest in our transmission rights-of-way continues to be strong.
We recorded $10 million of associated revenues through the first quarter.
Although right-of-way revenue is difficult to estimate we continue to expect revenues of $10 million to $20 million this year.
The business benefited from strong customer growth adding more than 45 000 customers since the first quarter of 2013.
We continue to expect a 2% customer growth rate in the foreseeable future due to the strength of the greater Houston economy.
Turning to our capital investments Houston Electric invested $187 million in the first quarter.
We are on target to invest in excess of $780 million by year end to support service area growth grid hardening system reliability and ongoing maintenance.
Approximately 95% of Houston Electric's capital expenditure is recoverable through investment recovery mechanisms although the use of our distribution capital recovery mechanism may be limited by actual ROE performance.
We recently made a Transmission Cost of Service or TCOS filing with the Public Utility Commission of Texas to recover the cost of transmission investments made from October 2011 through December 2013.
The filing reflects the addition of over $180 million of transmission rate base and once approved will generate annualized operating income of approximately $14 million.
We expect to begin recovering approved TCOS amounts by the end of May.
Now let me update you on the status of the Houston Import Project we first mentioned during our third quarter 2013 call.
On April 8 the Electric Reliability Council of Texas or ERCOT voted to endorse the Houston Import Project and deemed it critical for reliability.
ERCOT has estimated the cost for the entire transmission project to be approximately $600 million and anticipates the project will be completed no later than June 2018.
On April 30 Houston Electric was notified of ERCOT staff's decision to split responsibility for the new 345 KV transmission line originating at the Limestone substation intersecting the Gibbons Creek substation and terminating at the Zenith substation.
As owner/operator of both the origination and termination substations Houston Electric has requested the right to construct own and maintain the entire project except for necessary upgrades to the Gibbons Creek substation which is owned by Texas Municipal Power Agency.
We have appealed the ERCOT decision to the Public Utility Commission of Texas and are seeking the right to construct own and maintain the entire project except for necessary upgrades to the Gibbons Creek substation.
CenterPoint Energy has requested an expedited decision schedule from the PUCT with a desire for a decision later this summer.
Overall I'm very pleased with Houston Electric's first quarter performance.
Joe McGoldrick will now update you on the results of our natural gas operations.
Thank you Tracy.
Let me remind you that our natural gas operations business includes both our natural gas utilities and our Energy Services business.
Our natural gas operations performed very well this quarter.
Natural gas utilities' first quarter 2014 operating income was $162 million compared to $139 million in the prior year.
During the quarter we benefited from increased usage due to cold weather rate increases and continued customer growth.
Winter financial hedges were established in Minnesota and Texas to stabilize revenues against weather volatility as we do not have weather normalization tariffs in those 2 states.
However the hedges had a bilateral cap of $16 million and the extremely cold temperatures particularly in Minnesota caused us to reach the cap on January 31.
As a result we realized a net weather-related margin increase of $16 million compared to the first quarter of last year.
When compared to normal weather the increase was $13 million.
The extreme and sustained cold weather also tested the capacity of our system.
In fact our Minnesota service territory experienced 35 days with sales above 1 Bcf in the first quarter compared to about 10 days in a typical year.
We are pleased that the system infrastructure investments we have made helped ensure our customers were served safely and reliably throughout this high-demand period.
Margin also benefited from rate increases of an additional $14 million this quarter compared to last year.
Interim rates in Minnesota GRIP increases in Texas and our Arkansas Main Replacement Program Rider were the primary contributors.
Consistent economic growth in our service territories continues and we added approximately 33 000 customers year-over-year.
Increases in margin were partially offset by increased bad debt expense due to higher gas costs reflected on customer bill increased depreciation expense associated with higher capital expenditures and higher property tax.
Through the first quarter we have invested approximately $83 million in our natural gas utility and are on track to invest in excess of $520 million by year end.
These investments include system infrastructure enhancements customer service technologies our advanced metering program and a new central office for our Minnesota operation.
Generally we recover about 50% of our annual capital investments through annual adjustment mechanisms.
While the recovery time varies by jurisdiction these mechanisms significantly reduce regulatory lag when compared to traditional rate cases.
We anticipate filing rate cases to recover the capital investments we're making where annual mechanisms are not in place primarily Minnesota.
In the pending Minnesota rate case our overall request was for an increase of $29 million when you exclude the effects of moving certain energy efficiency revenues from a separate rider in today's rates.
In April the administrative law judge recommended a 9.6% ROE and a 52% equity capital structure which would produce a $16 million net increase in our base revenues.
Oral arguments in Minnesota PUC deliberations will occur the week of May 5.
We expect the final order in June.
Our Energy Services business also had a strong quarter with operating income of $26 million compared to $7 million last year.
These results include a $4 million mark-to-market gain compared to a $5 million loss the previous year.
After adjusting for the mark-to-market changes business results improved by approximately $10 million over the first quarter of 2013.
This much improved result was due to 2 factors: First our TETCO pipeline capacity that accesses Pennsylvania Marcellus production proved to be a valuable asset this winter.
Basis volatility created asset optimization revenues not experienced in many years.
And second the transport capacity assigned to us in our Chicago and St.
Louis retail markets created similar revenue opportunities due to strong basis differentials.
These 2 factors along with weather-driven throughput increases contributed nearly all of the $10 million increase in business results.
Natural gas operations' strong performance in the first quarter continues to highlight the successful business plan we have been implementing for several years.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary who will provide an update on financial activities and earnings guidance.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
Before discussing various CenterPoint financial items I would like to comment on the process and results for the recently completed Enable Midstream IPO.
In April Enable successfully priced a 28.75 million unit $575 million IPO at $20 per unit which was at the midpoint of the filing range and has subsequently traded higher.
We are pleased to have the market recognize the value of Enable as a large-scale midstream MLP providing integrated long-haul transmission gathering processing and storage services.
We believe its strong organic growth trajectory combined with the financial flexibility of a strong investment-grade balance sheet has positioned Enable to create long-term shareholder value.
With Enable's IPO complete CenterPoint Energy's LP unit ownership is now 54.7%.
However during the second quarter we anticipating electing to drop essentially all of our remaining ownership interest in SESH into Enable.
This SESH transfer will increase our LP ownership in Enable by 6.3 million LP units resulting in a 55.4% LP unit ownership position.
Now turning to CenterPoint Energy's financing activities.
In March Houston Electric issued $600 million of 30-year general mortgage bonds with a coupon of 4.5%.
A portion of the proceeds are being used to purchase or redeem approximately $184 million of dilution and control bond while the remaining proceeds will be used to fund Houston Electric's significant capital investment program.
Now I'd like to discuss our earnings guidance for 2014.
This morning in our first quarter earnings release we revised upward our consolidated estimate for 2014 to be in the range of $1.10 to $1.19 per diluted share.
We increased our estimate of earnings from our utility operations to be in the range of $0.72 to $0.76 per diluted share.
This increase recognizes the strong financial performance to date of both our electric and natural gas utilities and of our Energy Services business.
The utility operations guidance range considers significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings throughput commodity prices effective tax rates and financing activities.
However the company does not include the impact of any changes in accounting standards any impact to earnings from the change in the value of the Time Warner stock and the related Zenith securities or the timing effect of mark-to-market accounting in the company's earnings expectations.
We have assumed a consolidated effective tax rate of 36% and an average share count of 431 million shares.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our utility operations' earnings expectations.
As you know Enable is in a quiet period and has not updated its 2014 earnings forecast.
Accordingly we are making no change to our midstream investment guidance range other than to reflect the $0.02 per share dilution resulting from the Enable IPO.
In providing our earnings guidance in the future we will take into account the most recent public forecast provided by Enable.
In closing I'd like to remind you of the $0.2375 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on April 24.
Our policy is to target an annual payout ratio of 60% to 70% of sustainable earnings from our utility operations and 90% to 100% of the net aftertax cash distributions we receive from Enable.
Now that Enable has completed its IPO and will be providing its forecast of earnings and cash distribution our objective is to provide to investors a forecast of our expected dividend growth rate.
We plan to do so at our upcoming June 30 Analyst Day to be held in New York.
Thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint Energy and I will now turn the call back over to Carla.
Thank you Gary.
In asking your questions I'd like to remind you that since Enable Midstream is now a public company we request that you direct Enable-related financial and operational performance questions to Enable management.
As such we will not be answering questions related to Enable on this call.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Regina? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Start with the bankruptcy or Chapter 11 filing of Energy Future Holdings.
I wanted to get a sense of if that has created the opportunity for you vis-à-vis Oncor which I know you all have talked about in the past or perhaps not? And related to that overall your views on M&amp;A opportunities for regulated utilities that you all have talked about in the past.
That's my first question.
Well I'll start with that.
I may ask Gary to comment on this as well.
But in the context of the filing that we just made I think what this does is just put in motion a process that we knew was coming.
I think we're going to have to take a look at this as everyone else is and understand what it means.
From a strategic standpoint we've mentioned in the past that Oncor is an interesting asset.
And since we know the regulations in the state we know the operations of the state it makes sense for us to contemplate it.
But we're going to have to wait and see how this one plays out.
And I think that this answer I just gave kind of leads into your second question which is around what are our feelings about M&amp;A in general.
And that is we're going to evaluate opportunities that would be value creating for our shareholders in terms of accretive value growth accretion.
We have criteria around what we're interested in in terms of geographic proximity to where our assets are today as well as areas that offer good growth potential and have constructive regulatory environments.
So I think we're going to have to wait and see.
I think this one has a long time to play out before we get really any clarity on what opportunity if any this would present.
Gary I don't know if you want to add anything.
No I think that's exactly right.
And Ali as you know now with Enable being formed they are going to execute their business plan.
They have access to capital to do so both net and equity capital.
Our focus as Scott described will be on regulated opportunities that present themselves both in the electric business and in the gas LDC business as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And Scott for my second question from your perspective obviously you've got a particular ownership now in Enable.
Going forward at some point down the road they're going to be raising capital et cetera to as you mentioned execute their plan.
What is CenterPoint's ownership philosophy? Are you looking to continue to maintain your current ownership which means you may have to put in more capital down the road? Would you look at yourself being diluted eventually? Or would you even consider exiting your ownership down the road? Philosophically what is your plan with regards to that ownership? Well Ali as I think we mentioned in the past I mean we like the business.
I mean we owned assets that were a big part of what Enable is today and we think they're good assets to own.
So our general philosophy is that we want to maintain the ownership position that we have today.
And as they continue to raise capital and -- for their growth project we will be diluted as a result of that.
But we'll own a larger portion of a bigger pie so to speak.
But we like the assets and we intend to maintain the ownership we have today.
And Ali this is Gary.
I'd also like to remind you that there is a GP as well.
And we own 40% of the IDRs in the GP.
Our partner OGE owns 60%.
And our expectation as Scott described is that Enable will execute their business plan.
They will grow their company.
We may have a smaller piece of a bigger pie but at the same time we'll have a value that will ultimately accrete to the GP ownership.
So we think that's option value for our shareholders.
And as Scott said we like the assets.
Frankly we have a lot of connection to those assets.
We put a great management team in place.
We have a terrific partner in OGE.
And we look forward to Enable executing their business plan and we create more value for our shareholders in doing so.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But you're not planning to put more cash in the LP just be clear on that? We'll never say never to anything but that's not our current intent.
As you know we set this up the MLP that they would have independent access to capital to execute their business plan.
Our next question is from Charles Fishman with MorningStar.
Research Division</strong> I believe this would qualify as a CenterPoint question rather than Enable but certainly you can decline.
The drop-down of SESH does that have any earnings impact at the CenterPoint level? No this should be a net neutral when it's complete.
And for various reasons Charles at the time of the formation we were unable to put that portion into the company.
And there was a prearranged then formula for doing so.
But neither company was obligated to -- Enable to accept it or us to drop it down.
But we have now made the decision a year later to drop it down.
But this should be a net neutral impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question was on the ERCOT decision on the transmission.
Did that surprise you that ERCOT ruled the way they did? Or is there any precedent for what they did? Tracy I'll let you to take this one.
We knew that the likely outcome was going to be between 50% and 100% ownership.
The ERCOT staff chose the former and we're seeking the latter.
And as of this morning we've appealed ERCOT's staff's decision to the Public Utilities Commission of Texas which will ultimately decide the case.
We think we have a very strong argument because the ERCOT protocol is to award a line such as this to a designated party who owns both ends of the line and we believe we own both ends of the line.
And so we're anxious for the PUC to weigh in on that.
Charles I'll just add I think one of the perhaps complicating elements on this one is other projects have been very clean with just 2 points involved and this one has -- there's 3 points.
And we own the 2 endpoints.
There happens to be 1 in the middle and I think that's what's clouding some of the issue at the moment.
Our next question is from Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> First question on the guidance change.
I understand on the Enable side you've just adjusted for the IPO dilution.
On the utility side have you changed your assumptions for quarters 2 through 4? Or should we view the change as just being driven by the first quarter coming in above your expectations? I think the answer is more of the latter.
In other words we had a strong quarter here driven very heavily by weather.
But when we were first looking at guidance we already knew some of the things that were going to be -- that were unfolding at the time we gave guidance initially.
So what this really reflects is the change that we've seen to date in the first quarter as opposed to something fundamentally changing through the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then just at the Energy Services business obviously a very strong quarter.
Have you seen those stronger opportunities from the first quarter trickle into the second quarter at all? And can you just talk about your outlook there for the rest of the year? Joe I'll let you take this one.
Sure.
Yes we continue to see some opportunities although not at the level obviously that we saw in the first quarter because the volumes and the volatility are much greater in the first quarter.
But going forward it probably won't have a material impact unless we have another blowout in basis next winter like we had this time.
And so nothing really has changed strategically with that business.
We were just opportunistic in taking advantage of these conditions over this past winter.
Our next question is from Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
I think the only 2 cleanups I have maybe just might be on the Houston Import Project.
And I guess my question is inasmuch as you've asked for an expedited time frame which I guess is 30 60 days versus sort of the normal maybe 6 months to a year is it that you basically go to 30 60 days and then you may get the decision? Or do they -- will they essentially give you a heads up that you've been put on the accelerated track? Or how will I guess we know that? Tracy you want to take this? We're seeking a decision from the PUC by this summer.
We're going to be filing an expedited schedule that we're going to ask the PUC to adopt.
Of course it's their sole decision whether they adopt it or not.
But we have a number of months for this to play out and this is a very important policy discussion and decision for us.
So that's where we are at the moment.
Okay.
And then if I recall correctly maybe in the 10-K or earlier in the year the Houston Import Project wasn't officially in the 5-year budget.
Now that we sort of know that there is a kind of a minimum 50% ownership is that something that now has kind of been put into that budget? I can't imagine it changes much in the way of financing plan but just I guess the question is just is it officially in the budget at this point? No it's not officially in the budget and for the reasons Tracy just described is that the current bid asset is different that we hope that it ends up.
And in terms of the earnings impact this is more of a 2018 project as well.
So don't -- at this point it's not considered in the budget that we have.
Our next question is from Neel Mitra with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I know you guys raised the capital spending guidance at the gas LDCs substantially this year.
But I was just wondering is that something that you see further opportunities to spend in? And if there are going to be changes what would you be targeting in what may be service territories? Joe do you want to take this? Sure.
Yes we obviously increased the level of capital this year although it's -- we were over $400 million last year as well.
And this relates a lot to as you can imagine the pipeline integrity requirements that you're seeing around the country.
And of course we were doing that ourselves to begin with even before the PHMSA and other requirements were put in place.
And we have a big transmission what we call the beltline project in Minnesota which is about a 72-mile loop around the city in Minneapolis.
That'll be about a 15- to 20-year project of substantial amount of capital.
We continue with our advanced metering program which requires a significant amount of capital.
And so we have -- and of course the growth in our service territories.
So we've anticipated this increased spending for a while and we expect it to last for several more years.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Gary could you comment just maybe around the M&amp;A environment for gas LDCs right now? I know that you've expressed interest in being an acquirer.
But we've seen some high valuations and just any commentary on how you see that playing out with the market? Well yes you're correct absolutely correct about high valuations.
I think that was second.
First of all what Scott said I think in terms of M&amp;A it's looking for those assets where there is good regulatory environments and we have opportunities that we can put our model in place and run those businesses more effectively and for the very long term.
On terms of valuations Neel we really have to remain disciplined.
Not to criticize what others would pay or not pay our focus is on ensuring that we have as Scott said an accretive transaction for our shareholders and increased value for our shareholders and we can have these assets for the long term.
Having said that to the extent assets do come on the market we will absolutely evaluate those if they meet our criteria and compete for those assets.
So M&amp;A as Scott said is certainly a part of what we want to do but our focus is really implementing our business plan.
And you heard from Tracy and from Joe a significant amount of capital that we're investing and the opportunity to invest more.
So certainly M&amp;A can play a role.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Steve Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> So this might be for Gary.
Just in terms of your balance sheet and credit metrics where would you say you are right now? And would you say you've got a decent amount of room to maybe even either stay where you are or add leverage where you are if you see kind of another round of opportunities beyond what you're already doing? Steve it's a good question.
We do have some financial flexibility.
As you know we worked a number of years to ensure we had that financial flexibility.
As I gave you in our earnings guidance we -- even with our capital program this year our share count will remain the same.
To the extent we have significant capital above and beyond we could certainly raise equity.
We'd love to have the opportunity for even a larger transaction to do so.
But having said that the short answer is yes we do have some leverage capacity and we'll use it judiciously.
But our credit ratings are important to us and we're going to obviously always do the things to defend those.
But we're going to do those in a very thoughtful way and we do have capacity.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just -- sorry to harp on this transmission line question who was the other party? You might have said this and I missed it.
There were 2 other parties designated by the Texas Municipal Power Agency and they were the city of Garland Texas; and Cross Texas Transmission company.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So they would be -- the both of them together would be the other party essentially? Correct.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And if you got all of this you would get all the $600 million? $600 million less the cost of upgrading the intermediate substation which is called Gibbons Creek.
That's approximately $10 million.
LLC</strong> Okay okay.
I guess I remember a number of like $390 million at one point from you but that might have been something different.
Steve at one point we were looking at a series of potential projects that could be selected.
And the range of projects at the time had costs that went from on the low end probably the $390 million up to even above $600 million.
So that created variability.
And then there's just then this issue around what the split would be of the investment was another aspect of variability in there.
So $390 million was probably a viable number for one of the options at one point in the process.
At this time we do not have any additional questions.
We will end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today.
We appreciate your support and have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President of Investor Relations.
Miss Kneipp? Thank you Regina.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our second quarter 2014 results and provide highlights on the other key areas.
Although -- excuse me also present are other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Investors and others should note that we may announce material information using SEC filings press releases public conference calls webcasts and posts on the Investor Relations section of our website.
In the future we will continue to use these channels to distribute material information about the company and to communicate important information about the company key personnel corporate initiatives regulatory updates and other matters.
Information that we post on our website could be deemed material therefore we encourage investors the media our customers business partners and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our website.
I would also like to remind you that our earnings press release and Form 10-Q as well as updated debt maturity and equity return amortization schedules have been posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
These materials are for informational purposes and will not be referred to during prepared remarks.
Also any projections or forward-looking statements made during this call are subject to the cautionary statements on forward-looking information in the company's filing with the SEC.
With the formation of Enable Midstream Partners the way we present our financial results have changed.
As a result we will refer to our equity investment in Enable as Midstream Investment and to the remainder of our businesses as Utility Operations.
Before Scott begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through Wednesday August 13.
To access the replay please call (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 65068077.
You can also listen to an online replay on our website and we will archive the call for at least 1 year.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you Carla.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on CenterPoint Energy's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
I would first like to thank those of you who joined us either in person or on the webcast for our June 30th Analyst and Investor Day.
At that event we shared our optimism for the future based on growth in the organic investment opportunities in our utility service territories.
We believe we are well-positioned to provide our customers and the communities we serve highly reliable and safe utility service.
Further we believe our investment in Enable Midstream Partners creates additional shareholder value as they realize growth opportunities.
For those not able to participate let me reiterate a few key messages from the meeting.
We introduced a $1.2 billion potential upside to our current 5-year estimated capital plan of $6.2 billion.
We shared that while our current plan is expected to generate annualized rate-based growth of 7% to 8% from 2014 to 2018 our potential upside capital investment could increase that annual growth rate to 9% to 10%.
Our current plan supports utility earnings compound annual growth of 4% to 6% and a potential upside capital investment would allow us to more confidently target the upper end of that range.
We are currently reviewing our 5-year strategic plan and we'll formally update or revise capital investment schedule beginning or during our fourth quarter earnings call.
Also at our Analyst Day meeting Lynn Bourdon and Rod Sailor of Enable Midstream Partners discussed their company's value proposition and reviewed the key drivers that will support sustainable growth in their distributable cash.
Each of these elements contributes to our expectation of providing CenterPoint Energy shareholders a stable dividend with growth of 8% to 10% annually over the next 3 years.
Our investment thesis is to provide reliable earnings growth with an industry-leading dividend growth rate.
Turning to our second quarter 2014 performance.
Net income was $107 million or $0.25 per diluted share compared to a net loss of $100 million or a loss of $0.23 per diluted share for the same period in 2013.
Excluding the 2 unusual items associated with the formation of Enable Midstream Partners second quarter 2014 net income would have been $131 million or $0.30 per diluted share.
For the second quarter of 2014 Utility Operations contributed $0.14 per diluted share and our Midstream Investments contributed $0.11.
On a guidance basis second quarter 2014 earnings were $0.21 per diluted share as compared to $0.29 in the same period last year which included a $0.07 per diluted share onetime tax benefit associated with the formation of Enable Midstream Partners.
Of the $0.21 per diluted share Utility Operations contributed $0.10 and Midstream Investments contributed $0.11.
Our second quarter performance once again illustrated the benefits of our diversified energy delivery portfolio.
The effect of mild weather at Houston Electric was almost entirely offset by strong performance from gas operations.
Core operating income from utility operations was $156 million this quarter compared to $159 million last year excluding a $10 million of partnership formation expense in the second quarter of last year.
In addition we recognized $71 million of equity earnings from our investment in Enable Midstream.
As many of you know Enable released their second quarter results and held their earnings conference call yesterday so I will direct you to Enable's published documents for a detailed review of their results.
I would also like to remind you that Enable finalized its IPO and purchased essentially all of our remaining interest in the Southeast Supply Header during the quarter.
As a result our LP ownership interest in Enable is now 55.4%.
Through June we invested nearly $630 million to serve our customers better and to accommodate the continued growth demands on our system.
We remain on track to invest $1.4 billion of capital by year end.
I am pleased with our company's performance so far this year.
We remain focused on operating safely serving our growing customer base effectively and running the businesses efficiently.
I will now turn the call over to Tracy to review electric operations.
Thank you Scott.
Houston Electric had a solid second quarter both operationally and financially despite milder weather.
Quarter operating income was $115 million compared to $131 million in 2013.
Higher earnings from customer growth were more than offset by the impact of milder weather as well as higher O&amp;M and depreciation expense.
Houston Electric's earnings continue to benefit from our growing customer base.
Since this time last year we added more than 48 000 metered customers which contributed approximately $7 million of operating income this quarter.
We continue to expect 2% annual customer growth into the foreseeable future.
Electricity consumption in Houston continues to grow and for the 12 months ended June 30 weather-normalized residential throughput was up slightly over 2% when compared to the previous 12 months.
Over the past several years our residential throughput increase had been consistent with our residential customer growth.
On a per customer basis our usage has been more or less flat.
As I mentioned Houston Electric experienced mild weather this quarter.
Compared to the same quarter last year operating income was down $10 million due to weather-related usage.
For the first half of this year operating income is lower by $3 million when compared to normal weather.
Our O&amp;M expense was higher compared to the second quarter of last year primarily because of 2 items.
First transmission investment cost in Texas is recovered from all electric distribution service providers.
In the quarter Houston Electric incurred approximately $46 million more of allocated transmission cost which we refer to as TCOS expense than in the same period last year.
These costs are largely offset by the corresponding increase in transmission revenues.
Second as we stated during the year end 2013 earnings call we expected our operational expenses to be higher this year as we accelerate specific grid reliability and safety initiatives.
As a result non-key cost O&amp;M was up $8 million or about 6% compared to the same period last year.
Before I discuss our capital investment.
let me update you on our expectations for right-of-way revenue.
Through the second quarter of 2014 we have recognized about $12 million of right-of-way revenue of which $2 million was received this quarter.
We currently estimate right-of-way revenue will be from $15 million to $20 million this year.
As we detailed during the recent Analyst Day meeting Houston Electric has a significant capital plan in place to support customer growth modernize our system and enhance reliability.
Through the first half of the year we invested $370 million which keeps us on track to invest at least $780 million of capital by year end.
Our 5-year capital plan is approximately $3.7 billion and we also have an additional $750 million to $800 million of potential upside capital investment during that timeframe.
Regarding the Houston Import Project our appeal of ERCOT's SESH decision to split responsibility for the project is now before the Texas Public Utility Commission.
We believe that as owners of the end points of the project we are entitled by ERCOT protocols to own the entire project.
The commission has scheduled a hearing on August 21 and we are hopeful for a third quarter decision.
We expect Houston Electric to grow a normalized operating income at a compound annual rate of 5% to 6% over the next 5 years with a possibility of 6% to 7% compound annual growth when taking into account our potential upside capital investment.
As we stated during our analyst a presentation these growth projections are somewhat back-end loaded in our 5-year plan.
We are well-positioned to continue our strong performance.
We are focused on effectively serving our growing customer base modernizing our system and operating reliably and safely.
I'll now turn the call over to Joe who will review the gas operations businesses.
Thank you Tracy.
As a reminder our gas operations business includes both our natural gas utilities and our Energy Services business.
Second quarter 2014 operating income for gas operations was $41 million $13 million more than last year.
Of this $30 million was from our natural gas utilities and $11 million was from Energy Services.
Last year operating income in the second quarter was $28 million with $25 million from the natural gas utilities and $3 million from Energy Services.
Our natural gas utilities had a good quarter benefiting from an improved rate and continued customer growth.
Rate increases improved our operating income approximately $10 million compared to the second quarter of 2013 driven by a PUC decision on our Minnesota rate case and several Texas GRID filings.
Weather and usage net of our weather hedge and the weather normalization adjustments riders contributed approximately $3 million.
Weather in the quarter was colder than normal but not as cold as the second quarter of 2013.
However we exceeded our winter hedge cap from the first quarter this year so we were able to fully benefit from the colder-than-normal weather in the second quarter.
We remain very pleased with customer growth we continue to see across our footprint adding approximately 31 000 customers since the second quarter of 2013.
This 1% customer growth is heavily influenced by our Metropolitan areas of Minneapolis and Houston.
After excluding pass-through expenses which have offsetting revenues operational O&amp;M is up about $6 million in the second quarter compared to last year.
The majority of our increase is due to additional contract labor utilized in our leak detection and pipeline inspection efforts.
In my Analyst Day presentation I shared that we're working hard to ensure our operational O&amp;M does not exceed a 3% compound annual growth rate over the 5-year planning period.
Despite increasing pipeline integrity requirements we remain committed to that objective.
Our capital program will continue to focus on customer growth technology consistency and system safety and reliability investments.
Through June we have invested $230 million of capital and expect to invest at least $520 million by year end.
Going forward as we shared during the Analyst Day our current $2.2 billion 5-year capital plan has an additional $300 million to $400 million of potential upside.
As Scott mentioned we'll update these numbers during our fourth quarter earnings call.
In the quarter we closed on the purchase of the building in Minneapolis which will serve as our permanent Minnesota headquarters.
Also we continued to deploy automated meter-reading technology across our footprint and now have almost 2.7 million installations systemwide.
We remain on track to convert all 3.4 million of our meters by year end 2015 positioning us as an industry leader in automated meter technology.
Based on our current capital plan we expect our natural gas utilities to growth operating income at a compound annual rate 4% to 5% over the next 5 years the possibility of 5% to 6% when taking into account our potential capital upside.
Finally Energy Services had another strong quarter with $8 million more in operating income last year.
Favorable transportation optimization provided a margin uplift and expense control continues to prove beneficial for the business.
Our Energy Services group will continue to provide valuable nonutility services and position CenterPoint Energy gas operations as a premier provider of one-stop natural gas solutions for our customers.
We are well-positioned to further our proven track record of performance.
I also believe we have the proper operating model to continue building an industry-leading Gas Distribution Energy Services business.
We are focused on the early adoption of technology to improve the customer experience and our infrastructure investments support the growth and event on our systems and we remain committed to operating an efficient safe and reliable system.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary who will provide an update on financial activities and earnings guidance.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
I have a few topics to discuss with you this morning but before doing so I too would like to thank those of you who participated in our Analyst and Investor Day.
We believe we have a compelling investment pieces in of delivering solid business and growth combined with an industry-leading dividend growth rate.
Not only will we work diligently to effectively execute our business plan we will also continue to focus on providing our shareholders and analysts with clear and timely metrics from which to evaluate our progress.
Now let me discuss my first topic liquidity.
In line with our objective to maintain appropriate levels of liquidity on reasonable terms combined with maximum borrowings flexibility we are in the process of extending our current facility by 1 year with no change to the commitment fees or to the borrowing cost under the facility.
If the extensions are successful the revolving credit facilities will each have a remaining term of 5 years expiring in 2019.
Now I'd like to discuss our earnings guidance for 2014.
This morning in our second quarter earnings release we increased our 2014 consolidated earnings estimate to be in the range of $1.14 to $1.21 per diluted share.
Our consolidated guidance is bifurcated into 2 ranges: Utility Operations and Midstream Investment.
We have assumed a consolidated effective tax rate of 37% and an average share count of 431 million shares.
Despite the impact of weather on this quarter we reaffirmed our utility operations earnings guidance range of $0.72 to $0.76 per diluted share.
The utility operations guidance range considers significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings throughput commodity prices effective tax rates and financing activities.
However the company does not include in its earnings expectations the impact of any changes in accounting standards any impact to earnings from the change in the value of the stocks and the related securities or the timing of the value of the Time Warner stocks and the related [indiscernible] securities or the timing effect of mark-to-market accounting.
Additionally we increased our midstream investment's guidance range to $0.42 to $0.45.
This Midstream Investment's guidance range takes into account Enable's most recent public forecast effective tax rate the accretion of our basis difference in Enable and other factors.
As the year progresses we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations.
As recently announced our objective is to grow our dividend at a compound annual growth rate of 8% to 10% over the next 3 years which differentiates us within our industry.
Our dividend policy of targeting an annual payout ratio of 60% to 70% of sustainable earnings from our Utility Operations and 90% to 100% of the net after-tax cash distributions we received from Enable clearly supports our commitment to achieving the stated dividend growth rate objective.
Finally I'd like to remind you of the $0.2375 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on July 24th.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate a our strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence that management and the Board of Directors in our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Now let me thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint energy and I will now turn the call back over to Carla.
Thank you Gary.
In asking your questions I'd like to remind you that Enable-related financial and Operational performance questions should be directed to Enable Management.
We will now open the call to questions and in the interest of time I ask you to limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Regina? [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
This is actually Danilo filling in for Carl.
A couple of quick follow-up questions.
With respect to CE what was the weather impact again for the quarter? Tracy you want to take that one? I will take that one.
I'm looking for the number right here.
Yes it's about $10 million for the quarter.
And can you repeat again what the O&amp;M impact was as well? About $8 million.
Got you.
Okay.
I guess most of my other questions have been hit.
One quick follow-up though for Gary.
Now that you sort of are increasing guidance because of Enable is it fair to say that the dividend growth will sort of change towards that high end of that 8% to 10% range? Well I wouldn't say that.
I think at this point what you're seeing I think we are implementing what we've said we -- we really want to look at Enable.
As you know they announced earnings yesterday they laid out their EBITDA range.
And -- which I think reflects by the way what we laid out at the Analyst Day 8% to 10%.
And I think at this point we know that's the range.
Certainly our objective -- their objective is to be as profitable as possible increase their distributions as much as possible.
But at this point I'd say stay with 8% to 10%.
And as I said before our objective is to be at the high end of that of course and then we'll look at it each year.
I think that's an important thing.
Each year we'll look at what that looks like and as I said at the Analyst Day we want to update our -- update you guys on where we see that compounded growth rate.
But no change in the range at this point.
We will -- I'll just add onto that.
We will continue to evaluate the implications of their forecast as it change as it may impact our growth rate.
But at this point as Gary said the growth rate is still 8% to 10%.
Got you.
And I guess a final one before I leave.
Any sort of updates on your interest in the Oncor assets? There've been a lot of parties obviously interested in it.
Do you guys sort of still are looking at that? Or how should we think about that? I think we've mentioned several times.
First of all our top priority is organic investment right? We're going to focus on that and making sure that Enable is properly governed and they're doing what they need to.
But as we've said before we have an interest in M&amp;A if it meets our strategic criteria.
You've asked specifically about Oncor.
I think in the past we've commented that from a strategic standpoint there's good industrial logic for it.
But as this process unfolds as we look at this we're only going to do something if it makes sense it meets our strategic criteria and it creates value for our current shareholders.
Our next question will come from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Scott you guys have raised your '14 guidance based on Enable's numbers being put out there.
As you know they put out both '14 and '15 numbers.
Are their '15 numbers higher than what you had assumed in your outlook as well? Well we as you know -- this is Gary.
Good morning Ali.
We've not provided '15 guidance.
I think directionally we're frankly very pleased with what they laid out.
I think you can see they're investing a significant amount of capital and I think that they're very clear to the market in letting you guys know the amount of capital that they're going to execute on.
But in terms of 2015 we're not providing guidance at this point.
But certainly our expectations is that they would increase their EBITDA growth and distributable cash flow in 2015 and we expect them to continue beyond that.
So I'm going to call it in line with our expectations but in terms of specific guidance we'll give that first quarter of next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my second question I guess Gary for you as well.
Kind of 2 parts.
One is that's just a logistic point the 37% tax rate is that fair for modeling purposes to assume that to be consistent in future years as well? I think it is.
It's subject to I would say some type of change in the tax rates.
But yes I think you could use it for now.
I mean I think that's a fair rate to use yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just the real question I wanted to ask you is if that growth CapEx does come to fruition in your regular businesses can you remind us would that cause you to think about raising equity to meet your CapEx plans if you do spend that extra amount as well? Well in terms of the -- let me maybe back up and review our financing plan is to thoughtfully use our debt capacity and that's what we're doing.
We ended the year with debt to total cap of about 53.5%.
If you look at the end of the quarter it's about 55.7%.
So we have quite a bit of runway in front of us to thoughtfully use our debt capacity to the extent that Joe and Tracy are able to execute on accretive growth capital above and beyond that.
Frankly we'd be delighted to get feather in some equity to support that.
But we'll first of all thoughtfully use our debt capacity that we work diligently to have the flexibility to use over these past few years.
Hope that's helpful.
Our next question will come from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> First question on the stronger guidance for Enable.
Can you just talk a little bit more specifically about what's driving your -- the stronger view versus what you were assuming previously? And has it been more the performance to date or the second half outlook? I'll take this.
Matt I think it's really -- again obviously you can look at their release in terms of the details but I think this is what we've expected and it's really around as they have -- are able to drive more transparency around their outlook.
Certainly commodity prices were moving in their favor to some extent.
I think that's weakened some.
And as I said we really need to follow what they laid out but as you can see they laid out yesterday I think a really strong CapEx plan and growth in their EBITDA.
So we'll follow them.
And I think it's pretty well in line with what we expected.
And again as they became public we understood where they were going to be on SESH in our ownership and those things to be able to just fine-tune if you will their guidance at this point.
Research Division</strong> And then I I guess had a similar question on the reaffirmed Utility Operations guidance.
Are there any moving pieces in terms of the stronger weaker assumptions there for the 3 segments included in that? I'd say -- on the Utility side we see -- certainly we see some growth.
There's some strength in the growth space very strong.
We had the weather downturn as you noted in the actuals for the quarter which has kind of negatively impacted that.
But overall we're still very confident with what we see in our ability to deliver on that range given our ability to constructively manage O&amp;M and take advantage of the growth that we see happening in the area.
Regina we don't have anybody else in the queue correct? None at this time.
Okay.
With that we will now end the call.
Thank you very much for participating today.
We appreciate your support and have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
(Operator Instructions).
I will now turn the call over to Ms.
Carla Kneipp Vice President and Treasurer.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you Cia.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our third quarter 2014 results and provide highlights on other key areas.
Also present are other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Investors and others should note that we may announce material information using SEC filings press releases public conference calls webcasts and posts to the investors section of our website.
In the future we will continue to use these channels to distribute material information about the company and to communicate important information about the company key personnel corporate initiatives regulatory updates and other matters.
Information we post on our website could be deemed material therefore we encourage investors the media our customers business partners and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our website.
Today management is going to discuss certain topics that will contain projections and forward-looking information that are based on management's beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management.
These forward looking statements suggest predictions or expeditions and thus are subject to risks or uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially based upon factors including weather variations legislative and regulatory actions timing and extent of the changes in commodity prices growth or decline in service territories and other risk factors noted in our SEC filings.
For a reconciliation of the earnings guidance provided in today's call please refer to our earnings press release which along with our Form 10-Q and updated debt maturity and equity return amortization schedule has been posted on our website centerpointenergy.com under the Investors section.
These materials are for informational purposes and we will not be referring to them during prepared remarks.
With the formation of Enable Midstream Partners the way we present our financial results has changed.
As a result we will refer to our equity investment in Enable as Midstream Investments and to the remainder of our businesses as Utility Operations.
Before Scott begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through Wednesday November 12.
(Operator Instructions).
I'll now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you Carla.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on CenterPoint Energy's third quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During our Analyst and Investor Day and our last earnings call we touched upon two themes that are central to our delivering best-in-class utility performance organic investment and operational expertise.
This morning I'm going to provide an overview of our third quarter performance and then give a brief update on these topics.
Our businesses performed well despite the milder weather in the third quarter as compared to last year.
Net income was $143 million or $0.33 per diluted share compared with $151 million or $0.35 per diluted share for the same period in 2013.
On a guidance basis third quarter 2014 earnings were $0.30 per diluted share of which Utility Operations contributed $0.19 and Midstream Investments contributed $0.11 this compares to $0.33 in the third quarter of 2013 of which Utility Operations contributed $0.21 and Midstream Investments contributed $0.12.
Core operating income from Utility Operations was $203 million this quarter compared to $212 million last year.
We continue to benefit from strong economic growth in several of our larger service territories.
We've added more than 85 000 customers in the last 12 months.
Year-to-date we have invested $987 million in capital compared with $907 million through the third quarter of last year an increase of around 9%.
We remain on track to invest approximately $1.4 billion in infrastructure by year-end.
Our third quarter equity income from Midstream Investments was $76 million compared to $75 million in the same quarter of 2013 excluding basis difference accretion in both years.
Enable held its third quarter earnings call yesterday and we were pleased with the strong results they presented.
We received several questions about the downward pressure our stock price recently experienced associated with market volatility in the MLP sector.
Our view is that lower oil prices negatively impacting the MLP sector had a disproportionately negative impact on Enable's unit price as well as CenterPoint's stock price.
Enable discussed their commodity exposure during their earnings call yesterday and I would direct you to their published materials for the details.
As a reminder we own 55.4% of Enable's LP units and 40% of the general partner IDRs.
Enable's high quality assets strong customer relationships balanced contract mix and solid financial position make it a valuable component of our portfolio with a manageable risk profile.
We expect Enable to continue to be a strong source of value creation in the years to come.
CenterPoint's value proposition remains unchanged we offer investors exposure to vibrant growing utility service territories coupled with an MLP growth accelerator that allows us to offer an industry leading dividend growth rate.
We believe our valuation should reflect our proportional ownership of Enable plus an appropriate earnings multiple valuation for our high quality utilities.
Overall we’re pleased with the company's financial and operational performance.
We're executing a robust capital plan and we will update our capital projections on the fourth quarter earnings call.
We anticipate those projections to be in line with the capital upside potential presented at our June Analyst Day.
Looking forward we remain on track to deliver our expected earnings for the year and are well-positioned to achieve long-term growth.
We continue to focus on operating safely serving our growing customer base effectively and running the businesses efficiently.
I'll now turn the call over to Tracy to review electric operations.
Thank you Scott.
Houston Electric had a solid third quarter both operationally and financially.
Core operating income was $202 million this quarter compared to $207 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Higher earnings from customer growth higher equity returns primarily related to true up proceeds and increased right-of-way revenues were more than offset by return to more normal weather and higher O&amp;M expenses.
Houston Electric's service territory continues to grow.
Since the third quarter last year we added more than 50 000 metered customers.
We expect this 2% annual customer growth to continue into the foreseeable future providing $25 million to $30 million of incremental revenue each year.
Over the past several years our weather normalized residential throughput increase has been consistent with our residential customer growth meaning our usage per customer has been more or less flat.
Compared to the same quarter last year operating income related to weather was down $11 million due to a return to more normal weather.
This decline was partially offset by a $6 million increase in right-of-way revenues.
The full-year 2014 forecast range for right-of-way revenues is $20 million to $30 million.
O&amp;M expense was higher compared to the third quarter of last year primarily because of $47 million of transmission expenses which has offsetting revenue as well as a $6 million adjustment to our claims liability reserve.
Excluding the effects of these items O&amp;M was up $10 million versus the third quarter of 2013.
This increase was anticipated and driven by specific grid reliability and safety initiatives we have mentioned on previous calls.
Before I discuss our capital investment let me update you on the Houston Import Project.
On October 17 the Texas Public Utility Commission filed an order that denied our appeal of ERCOT's staff decision to split responsibility for the Houston Import Project.
We're now concentrating our efforts on planning and constructing our portion of this project.
We estimate our capital investment will be $300 million which is not in our currently published five-year plan.
However this project will contribute to the $750 million to $800 million of capital upside identified at the Analyst Day.
As we’ve shared in the past we continue to invest capital to enhance reliability modernize our system and support customer growth.
Through the first nine months of this year we invested $573 million which keeps us on track to invest approximately $780 million of capital by the end of the year.
Our robust capital plan is expected to generate a rate based compound annual growth rate of 7% to 8% with upside potential in the 9% to10% range over the next five years.
We're executing our plan and we're well-positioned to continue our strong performance.
We will continue to operate effectively and efficiently as we focus on safety reliability growth and customer service.
I'll now turn the call over to Joe who will review Gas Operations.
Thank you Tracy.
Gas Operations performance for the third quarter was in-line with our expectations.
We reported a $2 million operating loss for the third quarter comprised of an $8 million loss from our natural gas utilities and a $6 million gain from our Energy Services Business.
By comparison Gas Operations reported $7 million in operating income in the third quarter of 2013 comprised of a $5 million from our natural gas utilities and $2 million from our Energy Services Business.
As anticipated results were down at our natural gas utilities for the quarter.
However we continue to expect a solid year as supported by our year-to-date performance.
Customer growth at our natural gas utilities continues at a steady 1% growth rate adding 36 000 new customers since the third quarter of 2013 most of the growth came from our Houston and Minnesota service territories.
We also benefited from modest rate relief during the quarter but the increases were less than those realized in last year's third quarter.
O&amp;M at our natural gas utilities increased during the quarter but we expected this.
For example timing issues such as pipeline integrity testing in Minnesota occurred disproportionately in the third quarter this year.
As always we continue to look for ways to improve efficiency and hold down O&amp;M without sacrificing safety and reliability.
The 3% growth rate I shared that the Analyst Day remains our objective.
Through the first nine months we have invested approximately $380 million of capital and are on track to invest approximately $520 million by year-end.
We continue to deploy automated meter reading technology across our footprint and expect to convert all $3.4 million of our meters by year-end 2015.
This technology is an important investment for us as it reduces O&amp;M and improves service to our customers.
We also continue to invest capital in pipe replacement such as our cast-iron and bare steel main replacement program and our Beltline Project in Minneapolis.
As a reminder our base capital plan is expected to generate a rate based compound annual growth rate of 8% to 9% over the next five years with upside potential in the 9% to 10% range.
These investments are improving the safety and efficiency of our system as well as enhancing customer service.
We remain encouraged by our regulators' constructive and collaborative approach to rate recovery for investments that are vital to the safety of our customers and the communities we serve.
Turning to Energy Services we recorded $6 million of operating income in the third quarter which included a $13 million mark-to-market gain.
This compares to $2 million of operating income for the third quarter of 2013 which included a $6 million mark-to-market gain.
Year-to-date operating income for Energy Services is $43 million compared to $12 million in 2013.
2014 performance to-date includes a $23 million mark-to-market gain as compared to $7 million in the same period of 2013.
Normalizing for the mark Energy Services is up approximately $15 million compared with the first nine months of 2013.
This business benefited significantly from increased basis and storage spreads during the polar vortex earlier this year.
Despite the increased volatility last winter our VAR average for 2014 is below $400 000 demonstrating the success we've enjoyed in reducing risk in this business.
We are executing our plan well in Gas Operations.
We’ve strong performance to build upon going into the fourth quarter and will continue to focus on safety reliability and customer service.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary who will provide an update on our financial activities and earnings guidance.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
I have a few topics to discuss this morning and I would like to start by describing the financial results for Enable Midstream who yesterday reported solid earnings in their first full quarter as a public company following their IPO in May.
Enable's solid financial performance net of their acquisition of the majority of our interest in the (indiscernible) pipeline helped to offset the earnings dilution associated with the IPO and a decrease of $2 million in our basis difference accretion.
In addition to equity earnings from Enable we received cash distributions of $70 million in the third quarter and expect to receive approximately $71 million in the fourth quarter.
We are very pleased with the progress the Enable's leadership team continues to make in executing their growth oriented business plan.
My next topic is liquidity; our objective is to maintain appropriate levels of liquidity on reasonable terms combined with maximum borrowing flexibility.
On September 9th we successfully extended our three credit facilities by one year with no change to the commitment fees or the borrowing costs under the facility.
The revolving credit facilities now have a remaining term of five years expiring in 2019.
Now I would like to discuss our earnings guidance for 2014.
This morning in our third quarter Earnings Release we reaffirmed our 2014 consolidated earnings estimate of $1.14 to $1.21 per diluted share.
We reaffirmed the component parts of that range with the Utility Operations range being $0.72 to $0.76 and the Midstream Investments range being $0.42 to $0.45 per diluted share.
The Midstream Investment guidance range takes into account Enable's most recent public forecast and the accretion of our basis difference.
In providing this guidance we’ve assumed a consolidated effective tax rate of 37% a Midstream Investments effective tax rate of 38% and an average share count of 431 million shares.
The Utility Operations guidance range considers significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings throughput commodity prices effective tax rate and financing activities.
However the company does not include in its earnings expectations the impact of any changes in account accounting standards any impact to earnings from the Zen Securities and related stocks or the timing effects of mark-to-market accounting.
I would also like to reiterate our dividend policy of targeting an annual payout ratio of 60% to 70% of sustainable earnings from our Utility Operations and 90% to 100% of the net after-tax cash distributions we receive from Enable.
As previously discussed we feel that the expected growth rate in our utility earnings combined with the expected growth in the cash distributions from Enable clearly supports our stated compound annual dividend growth rate objective of 8% to 10% over the next three years.
Finally let me also remind you of the $0.2375 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on October 21.
We believe our dividend actions continue to demonstrate its strong commitment to our shareholders and the confidence of management and the Board of Directors and our ability to deliver sustainable earnings and cash flow.
Thank you for your continued interest in and investment in CenterPoint Energy.
And I will now turn the call back over to Carla.
Thank you Gary.
In asking your questions I would like to remind you that Enable related financial and operational performance questions should be directed to Enable Management.
We will now open the call to questions.
And in the interest of time I would ask you to limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Cia? I apologize if this was mentioned earlier on but Tracy did you potentially mention what you guys expectation was for a PUC [ph] timing for decision of necessity on the Houston Import Project? Is that still sort of fourth quarter and if so can you be – do you have any sense of refined timeframe on that? The briefs were filed by the parties at the PUC last Friday.
This is in regard to the NRG Calpine complained about the need for the Houston Import Project but there will be reply [ph] briefs and we're expecting a decision by the PUC yet this quarter probably in the middle of December.
And then just really sort of a two-part weather question if I could.
One just wanted when we strip out or when we net out the LDCs with CE was there a discernible whether delta from normal? And then two maybe this is a better question for Joe just given some of the regulatory changes at the LDCs level can you refresh my memory of how you guys are approaching weather hedges for this winter? The first question you had about weather assuming you were asking for the quarter? There is none for gas but CE's down about $11 million for the quarter on a year-over-year basis.
I'm sorry.
That's year-over-year or is that from normal? That’s the year-over-year basis.
Do you happen to have what a delta would be from normal? From normal weather? Let me see if we can get that for you.
I can get that from Carla offline.
Okay.
If we find it we'll get it to you offline.
We'll find it and get it to you then.
While they are looking at up I'll answer your hedge question.
Yes we're hedging weather again this winter.
It began in October in Minnesota.
But we’ve the decoupling pilot go into effect in Minnesota in July of 2015.
That's a three-year pilot program so if that works as designed we may or may not do any additional financial hedges in the future.
Okay.
I think I misunderstood so the Minnesota pilot is starting middle of next year and so basically the hedging if you will is essentially the same approach for instance that you took last winter? Correct.
My first question is on the CapEx opportunity that the utilities above what's in your current plan.
If you pull the Houston Import Project out of that bucket could you just comment on where you stand with respect to those upside opportunities? And has there been any movement on specific projects and/or new projects pulled into that upside opportunity? So Matt we're going through our planning process now and that will culminate at the end of the year when we get approval of our budget with our Board.
The analysis that we're doing continues to suggest from a growth perspective and from a reliability perspective that the numbers that we've shared with you in June look to be pretty real.
So we'll confirm that after – we will confirm it on our fourth quarter call but as we sit here today we're growing in our confidence that that upside potential is doable.
And then on the Energy Services it's tracking well ahead of the rate you've been at the past few years.
I know that first quarter was maybe unusually strong but even the past two could you just talk a little bit about the environment right now for that business? And are you seeing things get a little more normal than say they have been in the past few years? We attribute most of that increase obviously to the polar vortex.
We're starting to see customers drop [ph] prices more because of the recent volatility experienced and so we're creating some economic value there.
But we really haven't fundamentally changed our view of that business being a $15 million to $25 million op income business per year but to the extent that we get another polar vortex or whatever well absolutely be opportunistic and take advantage of those conditions.
And we've done a good job over the years of really managing costs in that business and derisking it and so we feel like we're in a really good position to continue to grow that at a nice rate.
And then apologies if I missed this but it looks like your tax rate came in a few hundred basis points below your guidance.
Could you for the quarter just comment on that? I think this is just normal quarterly movement.
At this point I think Matt still think about 37% for the full year.
At the same time we continue to look at opportunities in terms of optimizing our tax rate but nothing material from that.
I wanted to pick up from your opening comments.
You talked about the volatility to your stock price given the linkage now that you have with Enable and MLP stocks in general.
That's clearly created more volatility to your stock price which is obviously not directly in your control.
So as you look at it from that vantage point how comfortable are you with this increased volatility given that your core business is still the Utility Operations and investors look at that as a more stable area of investment? So how comfortable are you with that volatility that is now associated with your stock movement? Well Ali in general we prefer to trend towards less volatility rather than more as you well know.
But we really think that some of this volatility was just over reaction here just the market overreacting and I think that Enable is fairly new and people need to better understand their exposure to commodity changes.
And I think it's going to as they learn more I think the relationship will stabilize and we won't see quite the level of volatility we saw this last cycle.
We were surprised I think as many people were with the amount of volatility.
It didn't seem to make sense to us.
You just look at the ownership levels and the actual commodity exposure.
So we are hopeful that education and greater understanding will help reduce that volatility.
Okay.
And separately Scott can you give us a sense – what is your interest level right now in Oncor? Obviously bidding is ongoing there in the past CenterPoint has been very clear on its interest there.
How are you looking at that opportunity? Well I think you know our practice is not to comment on specific opportunities but we have mentioned in the past that on Oncor Oncor itself from a strategic standpoint makes a great amount of sense just the industrial logic of it.
So it's interesting to look at.
We're certainly keeping track of how the whole process is unfolding and we're going to continue to evaluate and look at the process.
But we're not going to do anything that wouldn't be in the interest of our existing shareholders.
Scott with your permission if I could ask a couple questions to Tracy on Houston Electric.
Tracy did you mention customer growth or expectations? Did I just miss that? In the past you've talked about 2%.
We added 50 000 customers year-over-year by the end of the third quarter.
We're continuing on a 2% annual growth rate and we see our average residential use per customer as more or less flat so our total usage tracks our customer growth which is continuing to be about 2%.
Okay.
And sort of a related question I mean your neighbor to the East in Louisiana is experiencing tremendous industrial growth with low energy prices yet I think of Houston and I still consider it the oil capital of the world.
And obviously with the downward pressure on oil prices I suspect or at least in the past that has had a negative impact on the Houston economy and obviously your customer growth.
Has that changed though since the last cycle? Is Houston more balanced with respect to industries that use energy and the low cost energy is actually a benefit? We've actually seen a little bit more than 2% growth more in the 3% range for our commercial and industrial customers along the ship channel and along the coast.
There is still considerable interest in liquids and processing and part of our right-of-way margin impact is to allow people to build and get to the coast.
So we're still seeing a pretty robust economy in Houston.
Charles I'll add to that.
I think just the general makeup of Houston now is a much more diverse city than it was a couple decades ago.
Clearly the energy sector is a sizable portion of the economy and the growth here.
But there is also a lot of downstream opportunity and there is diversity into the medical area and in other commercial areas.
So while it might have some impact I don't think it's going to be – there is going to be a devastating impact.
In fact I'm not an economist here but some might argue that the reduction in oil price may actually be good for some of the downstream processing.
So there could be a balancing effect to that as well.
I'll add onto that those same dynamics that exist in Louisiana in terms of the petrochemical build-out those same dynamics exist here in Texas on the Texas Coast as well as in our ship channel.
So those same dynamics exist and certainly we will continue to benefit from that in all those respects.
Well that was my thing; I was thinking Houston was a lot more diverse right now.
So thanks for the color though.
Thank you Cia.
Thank you everyone for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
We will now conclude our third quarter 2014 earnings call and have a nice day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the conference call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President and Treasurer.
Ms.
Kneipp you may begin.
Thank you Carmen.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division; and Gary Whitlock Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our fourth quarter 2014 results and provide highlights on other key areas.
We also have with us our new incoming CFO Bill Rogers and other members of management present who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
Please note that we may announce material information using SEC filings press releases public conference calls webcasts and posts to the Investors section of our website.
In the future we will continue to use these channels to communicate important information about the company key personnel corporate initiatives regulatory updates and other matters.
Information that we post on our website could be deemed material.
Therefore we encourage investors the media our customers business partners and others interested in our company to review the information we post on our website.
Today management is going to discuss certain topics that will contain projections and forward-looking information that are based on management's beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management.
These forward-looking statements suggest predictions or expectations and thus are subject to risks or uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially based upon factors including weather variations legislative and regulatory actions timing and extent of changes in commodity prices growth or decline in our service territories and other risk factors noted in our SEC filings.
With the formation of Enable Midstream Partners the way we present our financial results have changed.
As a result we will refer to our equity investment in Enable as Midstream Investments and to the remainder of our businesses as Utility Operations.
We will also discuss our guidance for 2015.
The Utility Operations guidance range considers performance to date and certain significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings volumes commodity prices ancillary services tax rate interest rate and financing activity.
In providing this guidance the company does not include other potential impacts such as the impact of any changes in accounting standards any impact to earnings from the change in the value of ZENS securities and the related stock or the timing effects of mark-to-market and inventory accounting in the company's energy services business.
In providing Midstream Investments' guidance the company takes into account such factors as Enable's most recent public forecast effective tax rate the amortization of our basis differential in Enable and other factors.
The company does not include other potential impact such as the impacts of any changes in accounting standards for Enable's unusual items.
For the reconciliation of the earnings guidance provided in today's call please refer to our earnings press release which along with our Form 10-K updated debt maturity and equity return amortization schedule and year-end supplemental materials have been posted on our website centerpointenergy.com underneath the Investor section.
Before Scott begins I'd like to mention that a replay of this call will be available through Thursday March 5.
To access the replay please call (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406 and enter the conference ID number 61569448.
You can also listen to an online replay on our website and we will archive the call for at least 1 year.
And with that I'll now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you Carla and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning we reported full-year earnings of $611 million or $1.42 per diluted share as compared to $311 million or $0.72 per diluted share in 2013.
Using the same basis that we use when providing guidance full-year adjusted earnings would have been $1.27 per diluted share in 2014 compared to $1.20 for 2013.
Included in 2014 earnings is a $29 million tax benefit which equates to $0.07 per share which Gary will discuss later.
Utility Operations contributed $0.83 per diluted share and Midstream Investments contributed $0.44 for 2014.
I'm pleased with our overall 2014 performance.
With a new leadership team refreshed corporate vision and strategy and successful IPO of Enable Midstream Partners we took important steps in 2014 to set up a new foundation for the company while delivering strong business results.
In June of last year we laid out our investment and growth plans for our utilities and I'm happy to confirm we remain on target to achieve those goals.
Further our management transition plan has gone very smoothly.
With the addition of Bill Rogers as the incoming CFO the new senior management team is now in place.
The new team has the right mix of industry experience functional knowledge and personal dedication necessary to continue moving our company forward.
Our financial performance is driven by customer growth capital additions timely recovery of investments and ongoing cost management.
2014 was a record year for capital investments at our utilities and our new 5-year plan includes approximately $7.4 billion of capital spend for Utility Operations which is in line with our upside case presented in June of 2014.
In 2014 we continued to benefit from a number of positive trends.
Economic and customer growth was strong within our footprint especially in Texas and Minnesota.
Growth in the Houston area will continue to benefit from 3 key themes: First construction remain strong across our residential commercial and industrial sectors and the inventories are maintaining at reasonable levels.
According to Mark Dotzour the Chief Economist and Director of Research at Texas A&amp;M Real Estate Center 8 million square feet of new industrial space will be completed in 2015 much of which will be used to support continued growth in the petrochemical sector.
Additionally vacancy rates in some parts of the city are at all-time lows.
Second Houston has demonstrated the ability to grow in both high and low-energy commodity cycles.
The Houston area population has grown steadily since 1990 despite oil prices cycling between $20 and $150 per barrel.
And third the local economy is much more diverse than in years past.
According to the City of Houston in 1981 the economic base was dominated by energy-related businesses with nearly 85% of all jobs in those sectors.
Today nearly 1/2 of all jobs are in non-energy sectors such as business services technology aerospace medicine and manufacturing.
While Houston's projected job growth is below last year's near-record pace the forecasted increase of 60 000 jobs or 2% remains in line with long-term trends.
Much attention lately has been on energy commodity prices and their impact on Enable.
Last week Enable provided a reduced 2015 guidance range which reflects the near-term effects of those lower prices and a recent decline in rig count in the areas in which Enable operates.
From a longer-term perspective we remained positive on the fundamentals that underlie Enable's growth story.
Enable sets itself apart from other MLPs with their investment-grade balance sheet strong organic growth opportunities and a constructive balance of acreage dedications fixed-fee contracts and minimum-volume-commitment contracts that support much of their income.
Enable's customer base and relationships as well as their geographic base and diversity will continue to provide opportunities even with energy price volatility.
Enable provides a significant contribution to our dividend while allowing us to focus our capital investment on our utility businesses.
As you all know today will be Gary Whitlock's last earnings call as CFO of CenterPoint Energy.
Gary has been with the company since its inception in 2002 and was a key part of the management team that dealt with several challenges and opportunities.
I worked closely with Gary over his entire time and his experience knowledge and counsel will be missed.
His replacement Bill Rogers comes to us with many years of utility and banking experience and while it will be tough to fill Gary's shoes Bill will certainly bring his own brand of experience and leadership capabilities to our senior management team and the [Audio Gap] Looking forward we will drive our strategy to operate serve and grow.
From an operations perspective we will continue to emphasize safety reliability and efficiency.
We will enhance service to our customers and our communities.
Our capital investments will support growth and our service territories ensure essential system upgrades and improve customer service which will position the company for success and as a leader in our industry.
Let me wrap up by commending our employees who met challenges of 2014 head on.
They implemented innovative solutions for our customers executed on a large capital program to meet the current and future infrastructure needs and gave back to their communities in their spare time.
This year we were named as a Civic 50 award recipient for our contributions to our communities.
This award recognizes the nation's most civic minded companies and I'm honored that we were selected as the 2014 Utilities Sector recipient.
Our employees are the heart of our success and their collective performance is much appreciated.
I will now ask Tracy to discuss electric operations Thank you Scott.
Houston Electric's 2014 financial performance was solid and in line with our expectations.
Core operating income was $477 million compared to $474 million in 2013.
Growth of nearly 55 000 in metered customers in 2014 contributed $33 million of incremental revenue.
We benefited $15 million from a higher energy efficiency performance bonus in 2014 $8 million of which is related to the resolution of our bonus appeal.
We also benefited $23 million from higher equity returns primarily related to true-up proceeds.
These increases were partially offset by milder weather lower rights-of-way revenue higher operating and maintenance expense and depreciation.
As you have heard Houston continues to be a vibrant place to work and live which is reflected in our throughput and customer growth for 2014.
Home throughput increased over 2% and customer growth increased over 2.4% in 2014.
Of the top 10 most populous metro areas in the nation the greater Houston area's population growth rate consistently ranked in the top 2.
In response ongoing customer and load growth Houston Electric has been investing significant capital to ensure that our customers' electricity needs are reliably and safely met.
In 2014 Houston Electric invested $818 million of capital which represents an approximate 8% increase over 2013's capital expenditure level.
This year we expect Houston Electric to continue delivering solid results.
Given the current commodity price environment we anticipate customer growth will decline but remain healthy at 2% in 2015.
We plan to invest over $900 million of capital this year and approximately $4.4 billion over the next 5 years.
This investment will be used to improve service reliability and system resiliency enhance our customer service systems and support load growth and ongoing system maintenance.
This level of capital investment results in rate base growth consistent with the growth rate we have previously provided despite the rate base reduction associated with bonus depreciation in 2014.
I'd like to discuss 2 projects in our capital investment plan that help demonstrate the growth in our service territory.
Many of you are familiar with the Houston Import Project.
We are responsible for the southern half of this project known as the Brazos Valley Connection.
This project is critical for electric reliability in the Houston region as a result of forecasted load growth and insufficient local generation.
Houston Electric will file for approval in its portion of the project with the Public Utility Commission of Texas in April.
We anticipate the capital cost of the Brazos Valley Connection will be approximately $300 million.
Another project that demonstrates the load growth in our service territory is our Jones Creek Project.
This $86 million transmission investment will enable the delivery of 656 megawatts of power to serve Freeport LNG's new $10 billion-plus natural gas liquefaction export facility.
The LNG plant will help drive economic growth in our service area.
Our Jones Creek Project is expected to be in service beginning in December of 2017 and Freeport LNG will be one of our largest industrial customers once the project is fully operational in 2018.
In addition to growth products we continue to see strong interest in the use of our rights-of-way indicating continued pipeline expansion activity associated with growth in our service area.
In 2015 we are forecasting rights-of-way revenue in the range of $10 million to $20 million.
Regarding regulatory matters we do not anticipate the need for a general rate case filing at Houston Electric in the near-term.
We do however plan to make a Distribution Cost Recovery Factor filing in April which will allow us to earn a return on distribution capital invested since our last rate case.
Rate increases from the filing would go into effect later this year however most of the benefit would be realized in 2016.
This recovery mechanism along with our transmission cost-of-service mechanism will be very effective in reducing recovery lag and mitigating the need for time-consuming costly general rate cases.
I am pleased with the results of this year and with our prospects for the future.
Houston Electric continues to execute on its plan to provide safe reliable and efficient electric service for its growing service territory.
I'll now turn the call over to Joe McGoldrick who will update you on gas operations.
Thank you Tracy.
2014 was another great year for gas operations.
We continued to invest in system upgrades and growth while pursuing new technology to improve system safety reliability and enhance customer service.
The natural gas utility business has been successful in part by proactively working with the regulatory commissions to implement innovative rate mechanisms that reduce lag in recovering these investments.
In addition our energy services business was able to take advantage of basis volatility which created asset optimization opportunities and increased throughput and margin due to extreme cold weather.
Gas Operations reported $339 million in operating income for 2014 comprised of a record-setting $287 million in our natural gas utilities and $52 million from our energy services business.
By comparison Gas Operations reported $276 million in 2013 comprised of $263 million in our natural gas utilities and $13 million in our energy services business.
Natural gas utilities had an outstanding year.
We added nearly 36 000 new customers a 1% increase with the strongest growth in Minnesota and Texas and throughput on our system increased by 4%.
This business also benefited from the extreme cold weather in the first quarter of 2014 as we reached the cap on our weather-hedge by February and consequently enjoyed the benefit of added margins the rest of the winter and early spring.
Rate increases accounted for $37 million of improved revenue helping offset increases in O&amp;M and D&amp;A during the year.
Natural gas utilities invested $525 million in 2014 which represents an approximate 22% increase over 2013.
We anticipate that this elevated capital investment will continue to drive rate base and earnings growth.
Our new 5-year plan includes $2.7 billion of capital which is slightly above the high end of the capital investment plan we shared with you last June.
Our $170 million conversion of automated metering technology is substantially complete in 4 of the 6 states we serve.
We plan to upgrade the remaining 420 000 meters this year to complete the project.
Upon completion we will have upgraded 3.4 million meters.
We also continued to invest capital in pipe replacement.
2 good examples of this are: the multiyear $400 million Minnesota Beltline Project; and our accelerated cast-iron- and bare-steel-main-replacement program.
These investments have improved our system reliability safety and our customer experience and we are proud of what we have accomplished.
Our increased capital spending is impacting D&amp;A which was up $16 million or approximately 9% versus 2013.
While 2014 O&amp;M expenses were up 4% over the prior year the annual growth rate between 2011 and 2014 was 1% after adjusting for pass-through expenses.
Going forward we'll manage O&amp;M expenses to approximately a 3% compound annual growth rate.
On the regulatory front we anticipate filing general rate cases in 2015 in our Texas Coast Minnesota and Arkansas rate jurisdictions.
We will also file annual rate mechanisms in other service territories including our GRIP asset recovery mechanism in our Houston South Texas and East Texas divisions.
Implementation of new rates will be staggered over 2015 and 2016.
In Minnesota interim rates will go in effect approximately 60 days after filing the rate case later this summer and will be trued-up once final rates are determined in 2016.
The majority of increases related to all of these filings will be reflected in 2016 results.
The energy services business after adjusting for mark-to-market accounting would have reported operating income of $23 million in 2014 compared to $15 million in 2013.
This business benefited from 2 key factors in 2014: first basis volatility created asset optimization revenues not experienced in many years; and second the extreme cold weather increased throughput and margin from our weather-sensitive customers.
When combined with solid expense management including some workforce reductions energy services had a very good year.
Going forward we will focus on opportunities within our core footprint.
I am proud of the reliable service we continue to deliver to our customers often in volatile and constrained market conditions such as those created by last year's extreme weather.
We remained focused on delivering gas safely and reliably creating first-rate customer-service experiences and providing customers with product and service options that meet their growing needs.
I'll now turn the call over to Gary for an update on financial activities.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
I had a few topics to review this morning and would like to start by discussing the financial results for our businesses.
Our Utility Operations reported very solid earnings of $0.83 per diluted share on a guidance basis.
These results included a tax benefit of $29 million or $0.07 per diluted share from the periodic reconciliation of deferred taxes related to book and tax balance sheet.
After adjusting for this tax benefit Utility Operations would have reported $0.76 per diluted share which is at the upper end of our 2014 guidance range of $0.72 to $0.76.
Additionally Enable reported strong fourth quarter and full-year earnings.
They delivered solid increases in net income adjusted EBITDA and distributable cash flow and increased their fourth quarter 2014 unit distribution by 7% over the partnership's minimum quarterly distribution.
This strong performance of Enable in 2014 resulted in our Midstream Investment's reporting earnings of $0.44 per diluted share for the full year which is also at the upper end of our 2014 guidance range of $0.42 to $0.45 per diluted share.
In addition we received $305 million in cash distributions from Midstream Investment.
Consistent with our dividend policy these cash distributions net of tax are used to support our dividend.
I would now like to discuss our earnings guidance for 2015.
As Carla noted in providing this guidance we take into account certain but not all variables that may impact actual performance.
Let me start with our Midstream Investments.
Enable is well-positioned to be successful in today's lower and changing energy commodity market.
Enable has investment-grade credit rating low leverage and substantial liquidity.
When combined with a significant fee-based margin business minimum-volume-commitment contracts a thoughtful hedging strategy integrated assets and a seasoned management team we expect they will continue to execute their business plan by taking the necessary actions to be successful in this more challenging business environment.
Based on the latest outlook and guidance provided by Enable we estimate the equity earnings from our Midstream Investments to be in the range of $0.29 to $0.35 per diluted share.
This guidance range assumes our current LP ownership interest of 55.4% and includes the amortization of our basis difference in Enable.
Now let me turn to our earnings guidance for Utility Operations which includes the earnings at the parent company and our energy services business.
I would like to describe 3 items that have favorably impacted our 2014 Utility Operations' results by $0.06 per diluted share.
Taking these 3 items into consideration provides our 2014 Utility Operations' baseline earnings: first our 2014 equity return related to true-up proceeds is $0.03 per share higher than anticipated in 2015 as a result of the need to true-up the amounts reported from inception to date; second we benefited $0.02 per share from favorable weather; and third we received a $0.01 per share benefit from a favorable ruling related to our 2008 energy efficiency bonus appeal.
We have included a reconciliation to the $0.70 baseline earning in our year-end supplemental materials.
Our earnings guidance range for Utility Operations for 2015 is $0.71 to $0.75 per diluted share.
Using the midpoint of this earnings guidance range of $0.73 compared to the 2014 baseline of $0.70 we expect Utility Operations to grow 4.2% this year with a 4% to 6% compound annual growth rate expected through 2019.
We have assumed a consolidated effective tax rate of approximately 37% which includes a 38% booked tax rate for Enable's earning and an average share count of 431 million shares.
The resulting consolidated earnings guidance range for 2015 is $1 to $1.10 per diluted share.
And we will keep you updated on our earnings expectations on a quarterly basis.
As you have previously heard our 5-year plan outlines approximately $7.4 billion of capital investment.
We expect to finance this capital spending with a thoughtful approach of raising equity and debt on a timeframe as needed to ensure that our regulatory capital structure's appropriate and that our debt credit ratings remain strong investment-grade.
Due to the cash flow benefit of bonus depreciation being extended in 2014 we do not see any need for equity in 2015.
In future years we expect to raise equity to fund our capital plan through the sale of original issue shares through our savings and Investor's Choice Plan.
Next I would like to remind you of our dividend policy and the $0.2475 per share quarterly dividend declared by Board of Directors on January 22.
This dividend rate represents a 4.2% increase from our 2014 dividend when annualized and represents a 19% increase in the dividend rate since the formation of Enable in 2013.
Although this dividend increase is lower than what we had anticipated when we provided a dividend growth rate forecast last year it nonetheless represents a significant increase and reflects the latest outlook and guidance from Enable.
It also includes the projected cash tax rate for Enable distributions averaging approximately 25% increasing from 15% to 32% through 2018.
Due to the limited forward-looking timeframe of Enable's guidance we do not feel it's appropriate to provide a dividend growth rate forecast at this time.
However our objective remains unchanged which is to provide our shareholders a growing dividend that reflects the long-term stability and growth in our regulated utilities combined with after-tax cash distributions we received from Enable.
We believe this policy represents a strong commitment to our shareholders.
As mentioned earlier I will be retiring from the company and Bill Rogers has been named my successor.
Bill is an outstanding finance professional and is a servant leader with great integrity.
Bill Scott and the entire executive management team are talented professionals who are committed to serve our shareholders employees customers creditors and the communities where we live and work and CenterPoint Energy could not be in better hands.
And finally I want to acknowledge David McClanahan Scott Rozzell and Tom Standish.
We all worked together from the formation of the company and I want to thank them for affording me the privilege of working beside them these past years to help CenterPoint Energy become a stronger company.
Most importantly I want to thank all of our employees who work safely each day to serve our customers and our community.
Thank you for your continued interest in CenterPoint Energy and I will now turn the call back over to Carla.
Thank you Gary.
In asking your questions I'd like to remind you that Enable-related financial and operational performance questions should be directed towards Enable management.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Carmen? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Weisel with Macquarie Capital.
First question can you dig a little bit more into the CapEx numbers? Specifically when I look at '15 through '18 from the 10-K you talked at the Analyst Day about upside potential of $1.2 billion it looks like you've increased it by literally double that $2.5 billion.
How is there's so much upside and how is that not boosting the rate base growth? I understand the bonus depreciation is negative but seems like it should be growing a whole lot faster given the CapEx.
Andrew this is Scott.
I think what's going on -- you mentioned the '15 through '18 forecast.
The new numbers we gave are '15 through '19.
So the extra amount of CapEx you're looking at probably comes from the addition of '19.
No.
I don't think it does.
Well because you had mentioned earlier that it was '15 through '18 because we were comparing at that time a revision of how the increase would be from '15 through '18 and we showed upside opportunity for those years and then we've now layered in '19 if I've looked -- I've corrected.
Maybe.
I'll double check my numbers but I thought the increase apples-to-apples was more than the $1.2 billion of upside you talked about at the Analyst Day.
Is that not the case? The increase from the -- the way to think of this is the increase from the Analyst Day is in the neighborhood of $1.2 billion.
Okay.
Apologies.
But we'll we can work -- we'll have -- we'll double check this and we can deal with this after the call to make sure you're clear on it.
Yes that sounds good.
Then the second question I had was you mentioned that you'll be filing for the Distribution Cost Recovery Factor in April.
If I remember correctly that only applies if your ROE is back to the level of allowed? Is that's right? And if so what is that assumed for your 2015 earned ROE? Andrew that is -- you understand the rule correctly.
We cannot file the DCRF unless our ROE earned ROE is below our authorized.
So we have not yet filed what that is it's based on '14's numbers.
We'll be filing that shortly but it's safe to assume that it is below our authorized rate of 10% and it's based on what we earned in 2014.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Fleishman with Wolfe Research.
LLC</strong> And just a question on the -- Gary could you maybe just repeat your comments on the cash tax rate that you're expecting for Enable distributions? Sure.
Yes on Enable distributions as you know Steve the tax rates start lower and I'm really talking about from '15 forward.
So they moved from '15 -- and average is 25% over a period of next number of years and through -- up to 2018.
So they average 25% but they move from 15% to 32% over that time and as you know it's an important point.
As you think about our dividend which as you know we increased this year by 4.2% if you annualized that dividend 19% since we formed Enable.
Certainly when we were at the Analyst Day we laid out an 8% to 10% growth rate in the dividend.
Now we're subsequent to that as you know there's been somewhat precipitous fall in commodity prices and challenges there.
And Enable then -- that was based by the way on Enable's growth rate of 10% to 12% they've lowered that they provided 1-year guidance as you know and moved that down to more of a per-unit distribution growth rate of 3% to 7% still solid.
But as we -- we will continue to get increasing cash distributions from Enable but the tax rate goes up as well.
So again their rate of growth is not as much and then the tax -- our tax rate that we had originally anticipated to be more lower teens during this timeframe but it looks like it's going to average 25%.
LLC</strong> Yes that's right.
So we're not -- yes that's it Steven.
It was -- we've moved it up there and that's what I was trying to disclose to you.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That's what I thought because I -- we had look we had it in the high like mid-teens high teens.
Yes.
High teens.
LLC</strong> So 2015..
And as you know what we're doing in our dividend the way we think about it as you know the elements or the Enable growth rate and distributions tax -- tax those I mean you'll have to tax those understand the tax cash implication and then our utility earnings by growth.
So we have to take those into consideration and of course to be in a position that we want to continuously grow our dividend we'll have to be very thoughtful about the dividend increase.
But still very proud of 4.2%.
Enable's going to continue to grow they'll execute their business plans we'll have cash distribution from them and it will grow our utility and provide dividends from our utility as well.
But you're absolutely right.
20 -- so think more of average of 25% in terms of the tax rate.
Post 2018 we're not ready to provide the guidance on that yet because we're still doing work on that.
But it would continue to go up not down.
LLC</strong> So it's 25% over 2015 to 2018? Yes sir.
LLC</strong> On average.
And what is the actual 2015 expected cash tax rate? It's closer to the 15%.
LLC</strong> 15%? Yes.
LLC</strong> And then it ramps up a lot here in '16...
It ramps up.
Yes.
And those things -- just to caution you those things are subject to some change.
Those are complex calculations based on basis and tax basis and those things.
But I think the new news is giving you a little higher tax rate hope it gives you more color as we thought about the dividend.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And last thing on the dividend just when you did set the 4% you knew this tax rate changed you knew Enable's updated forecast already then? Like so everything that we have now you knew when you set the 4% dividend growth? Yes.
I think that's a fair comment.
Yes.
It was a thought -- that is a thoughtful way to consider it.
Look we -- in terms of a 8% to 10% -- I mean by the way when they -- we were at 8% to 10% we knew the growth rate was -- I mean the interest rate -- I mean the tax rate was going to be going up.
It moved some it's not -- it's certainly manageable.
The real driver on the dividend not being 8% to 10% growth rate really relates to Enable.
And look it's a very -- as Scott laid out and we laid out it's a great company solid investment great balance sheet excellent prospects to continue to grow and will grow.
But we have -- our dividend we want to be in a position to continue to grow the dividend thoughtfully.
And the board and Scott and management team felt that 4.2% was a right place to land and then as Enable -- if we have more visibility Enable continues to grow we have more line of sight then the board will take a thoughtful decision on the increase in the dividend.
Your next question is from the line of Carl Kirst with BMO Capital.
Actually Steve hit on exactly what I wanted to go through so I appreciate the color.
Maybe just to clarify of that 4 years averaging 25% Gary you said we should be ending in a 32% cash tax rate at 2018.
And I apologize can you help me once again why the change in the tax rate? Is that simply because with only 1-year of visibility from Enable there's not enough CapEx to provide a shield? It's combination of those factors obviously for this call it's -- there's a lot of detail behind it but it's a number of those factors in terms of clearly we know our basis going in and the MLP structure in those distributions that's exactly it Carl there's complications around that and as they're becoming more clear to us it is going to be higher rate.
Look we're still delighted it's a low-cash tax rate early but it does ramp up and overtime we're no different than any other taxpayer we won't have these remedials and those things that allow you to have a lower tax rate earlier.
But we're going to always constantly look for ways to lower our taxes.
And hopefully if there's corporate tax reform by the way that will be terrific.
Like you say it's different for the regulated utility but for distributions we receive from Enable that would be important to us.
So… That would be.
Well Gary the reason why I was asking in the way I was was because in the sense that does it get to be sort of a double impact from the slowing of commodity prices in the sense that to the extent that whatever timeframe happens to be if we do all of a sudden get a recovery and we see more drilling in the scoop et cetera to the extent that more visibility comes from infrastructure at Enable presumably by owning as many LP units as you are you are going to all of a sudden start getting the benefit of that LP tax shield.
And I would think the tax rate would then start to roll back to a better rate am I thinking about that correctly? Yes.
Look I think that is correct and I think those are more -- those dynamics have to be taken into consideration.
So what we're providing as disclosure as to where it is today I think a year or 2 or some period in the future if that tax rate changes those -- all those factors will be taken into consideration.
I think the most important thing to take away is that the company is committed to its dividend policy and that is the pass-through that's after-tax distributions of Enable.
So as they -- we want Enable to be bigger better stronger grow their distributions and our shareholders benefit from that which should ultimately lower our cost to capital and allow us to finance our utility and grow our utility which as Scott and Tracy and Joe described we have terrific capital opportunities accretive capital to invest so it will all be helpful to us.
Your next question is from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to try to ask again about the CapEx plan change.
I believe you said your base CapEx plan is now what had been your upside case back at the Analyst Day in June.
And when you gave us that you also articulated upside case of rate base growth and for earnings growth I believe you're not changing your expectations to those upside cases if I heard correctly.
So I guess just how should we think about those rates not going up with the CapEx? Is that bonus depreciation is that the addition of '19 and that grows slower? Just help us understand that.
Yes Matt I'll take a stab at this first and others may weigh in here if need be.
When we showed you consolidated utility CapEx in June we showed a 2014 to '18 number of $6.2 billion on the low end and then $7.4 billion was the upside number we had shown.
We've now redone our full 5-year capital plan to include '15 through '19 and that '15 through '19 number which drops '14 adds '19 is now $7.4 billion.
So that number that new 5-year number is now at the top end of the range.
So hopefully that clarifies the capital piece if Andrew's still listening that may provide a little more clarity for him as well.
You then asked about the growth in rate base.
We had said that the rate base growth for the utilities would be depending on which one you were looking at somewhere around 7% to 10% or 8% to 10%.
And then on the electric one the new forecast is it's at the higher end of that range we describe it now at 8% to 10%.
The gas utility rate base is still in that same range it still falls in that same range.
And what we had indicated around our earnings growth is that at the high end of this investment we would be moving towards the top end or the higher end of our earnings growth range.
We did not have a different earnings growth range number.
We just said we would be striving towards the higher end.
The dynamic that affects this growth rate on our earnings is -- there's a few of them.
One is that I think you told we mentioned to you all we have some high starting points for some of our utilities either fully earning or in some cases they were slightly above allowed returns and that affects the starting point of these -- of this growth rate.
There certainly is a fair amount of regulatory lag even though we have these mechanisms since the time period is so short if you're investing all this capital by the time you get to year 5 you've essentially financed all this capital but you don't have a good amount of that capital yet in rate base earning.
Said another way if you were to taper off capital or if capital were to taper off towards the end the earnings would improve but you would be paying for that through reductions and earnings down the road because your capital investment had slowed down so that is a factor.
And then the other factor is that over this period of time there are some assumptions for some amount of equity issuance so that we maintain the right balance between debt and equity.
So all 3 of those factors lead into the fact that the rate base growth is more than what we experienced on our earnings growth.
Matt this is Carla.
You may have seen it but all those numbers Scott just went is on Page 4 of the supplemental material.
Research Division</strong> That was actually really helpful.
And then with respect to the long-term dividend growth I understand the uncertainty with Enable kind of not reaffirming or updating their long-term growth beyond 2015.
It sounded like they hoped to be able to give us a longer-term view maybe later this year after they've had some more discussions with their customers.
Should we expect that you guys will update your dividend growth target once we hear from Enable or do you expect to be able to provide some more guidance at some point this year? This is Gary.
Look I think that's exactly right.
Enable -- when we provided a 3-year dividend growth rate it was on the back of or following -- we can't obviously can't believe [ph] with Enable it was following Enable's -- where they described their 10% to 12% growth rate.
Since they have obviously reduced that and then only given 1 year that's exactly right.
We really need to follow them.
I won't commit to the company that obviously at this point but it's something that Scott and the board will consider is providing as much clarity.
If they provide -- the more clarity Enable has they'll have more this year I think that's exactly right.
If they can provide multiyear with confidence around their growth and then that gives us confidence around providing compound growth rate.
But I think an important takeaway we're going to continue to grow our dividend.
Our utilities will grow.
We have a payout ratio of 60% to 70%.
We've got room to work around that as the utility grows.
And the takeaway from our investors -- for our investors should be we are going to continue to grow the dividend but we'll do it in a thoughtful way and we do have to be very thoughtful and mindful of Enable and really follow their information and try not to lead it.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I could just have one more.
With respect to the $0.07 tax benefit that you mentioned in the fourth quarter you kept that in your calculation of guidance basis EPS.
So I guess a was that expected when you provided guidance; and b is there anything similar expected in your 2015 guidance? We -- yes this is Gary again.
Look I think there was -- what we've done there were some expectations at work was going on.
This is what I call a it's periodic reconciliation of these very complicated multiyear issues around book and tax balance sheet so we had some knowledge of that.
What we've done you'll see it in our supplemental materials and I hope I've described it we left it really from precedent perspective in the $0.83 but clearly wanted to take it out.
So you have -- start with the $0.76 and I'll call it the starting point for last year.
So -- look for the tax rate going forward 38% of what -- in terms of booked tax rate from Enable we look approximately 36% or so so we've got a frankly a little more headwind.
We introduced the year at 33% total tax -- 31% total tax rate if you add that back it's about 34%.
So what we're doing when you look at guidance of $0.71 to $0.75 we have to -- we're going to work hard to beat that if we can.
But it includes some headwinds whether it be tax rate or others things that we have to work hard to fill the gap in.
And Matt this is Scott.
It's probably also worth noting as Gary talked about the baselining of our 2014 earnings to $0.70 and then the midpoint of our new range suggesting a 4% -- a little over 4% increase in earnings expected from '15 -- from '14 to '15.
It's probably worth noting too a year ago when we gave guidance at our first -- our fourth quarter call which had been our first call last year in '14 we gave guidance for the utility at $0.68 to $0.72.
And at that point it was based on expecting normal things to occur throughout the year given what we had.
So that re-baselining goes back to essentially the guidance that we provided at the start of last year and then of course as we went through the year as we do each year we will adjust guidance based on what we've actually experienced as well as leaving the range in tact to account for additional variabilities throughout the year.
Your next question is from the line of Ali Agha with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Scott just to be clear on a point you'd made earlier.
So now that you are spending the extra CapEx on the utility side and the commensurate rate base that goes with that so fair to say if we baseline the starting point in '14 that you're probably now at the higher end of that 4% to 6% range that you had originally thought you would be with the extra CapEx? Is that still a fair assumption? So I'll make sure I understand Ali correctly you're saying if we -- if you start with the $0.70 are we saying -- you're asking if -- where we are in the range of our utility growth the earnings growth? Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I'm just -- basically saying I think repeating what you said if I heard it right.
You said when you had put the 4% to 6% out there for EPS growth on utility you had made the case "Hey if we spend the extra money from a EPS side we'll probably end up at the higher end of that range.
We won't end up with a new range but we'll end up at the higher end of the range." So is that still...
Yes that's correct.
We are -- yes Ali that's correct.
We are targeting the high end of that range and as we've told you in the past because of these factors that we had -- I had shared earlier that the growth rate towards the front end of this cycle was going to be less than what we would see in the middle or towards the end of the cycle.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
Then secondly given the dislocations on the Enable side the fact that you are not able to talk longer-term because they haven't been able to talk longer-term given the volatility I mean on the down side that's been going on.
For CenterPoint shareholders Scott have you stepped back and said "Hey is there a different way we can run this?" So that CenterPoint shareholders are not held hostage to what happens on the Enable side whether it's cranking up the payout ratio on the utility maybe having more flexibility to talk longer-term.
I mean how are you thinking about this on the CenterPoint side given all that's transpired on the Enable side? Yes Ali I think that's a fair question.
I mean we are thinking about how can we -- what can we do to manage the growth that we experienced.
And there is some volatility it's not -- it's a little more volatile than maybe other utility stocks but it's nowhere near the volatility of what Enable is experiencing.
We still believe there's tremendous value in offering the baseload of our utility performance which has steady I'll call it more predictable growth with the upside potential growth that we get from Enable.
We think that's a unique and valuable value proposition.
And we're going to continue to manage the information they give along -- about their projections of where they're headed financially with our policy of making sure that we're thoughtful about how we increase dividends.
I mean we want to increase these dividends in a steady -- I'll describe them as a steady methodical way but have it ultimately reflect the value contribution that we get from Enable.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one related to that.
I mean would this also spur perhaps or to think about maybe adding more to the utility business? I know we've talked about potential M&amp;A in the past but just to increase the proportion of the predictable utility earnings to reduce the MLP exposure would this be another incentive for you to look at whether it's gas or electric ruled [ph] M&amp;A going forward? Yes I think that's a reasonable way to look at it.
We've just increased our capital spend as you've seen here in this plan to get at that.
I think we've mentioned in the past M&amp;A is not a core part of our strategy it's something that we consider on an opportunistic basis and we will do something if it meets the criteria that we've set out before.
But our primary objective here is to grow these utilities with all the organic opportunity we have in front of us.
And to the extent that other opportunities come along in the utility space that meet those criteria I think it would provide a little bit of the benefit that you just described.
[Operator Instructions] And your last question comes from the line of Charles Fishman with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> If I look at the Slide 4 of the supplemental the electric rate base goes from 7% to 10% and then when you roll it to the next 5 years 8% to 10% so you're bringing up the lower end 1%.
Is it a fair assessment that that really was driven by the transmission projects between -- that you've been able to finalize since June? Is that what's going on? There's a little more involved than that in that.
I'm going to ask Tracy to address that.
When we talked about the upside last June at Analyst Day we didn't have discrete projects that had been identified as to what that upside was but neither did we have any dollars in our baseline capital plan for the Houston Import Project.
So now we have better line of sight that we think we're going to have an investment opportunity there of approximately $300 million.
That now has materialized into part of our upside but that's not the whole story there are other things that we've done.
So it's a combination of our portion of what we expect to be approved hopefully later this year by the Public Utilities Commission as well as other opportunities that we've identified.
Research Division</strong> So it's really just increased confidence now versus last -- almost 8 months ago? Yes that's correct.
Carmen with that we're going to go ahead and end the call.
Thank you everyone for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
We will now conclude our fourth quarter and year-end 2014 earnings call.
And have a nice day.
This does conclude CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
During the company's prepared remarks all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session after management's remarks.
I will now turn the call over to Carla Kneipp Vice President and Treasurer.
Ms.
Kneipp? Thank you Ginger.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division; and Bill Rogers Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our first quarter 2015 results and provide highlights on other key areas.
We also have with us other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
In conjunction with the call today we will be using slides which can be found under the Investors section of our website centerpointenergy.com.
For a reconciliation of the earnings guidance provided in today's call please refer to our earnings press release along with our Form 10-Q which have been posted on our website.
Please note that we may announce material information using SEC filings press releases public conference calls webcasts and posts to the Investors section of our website.
In the future we will continue to use these channels to communicate important information about the company key personnel corporate initiatives regulatory updates and other matters.
We encourage investors the media our customers business partners and others interested parties in our company to review the information we post on our website.
Today management is going to discuss certain topics that will contain projections and forward-looking information that are based on management's beliefs assumptions and information currently available to management.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks or uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially based upon factors including weather variations regulatory actions economic conditions commodity prices changes in our service territories and other risk factors noted in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss our guidance for 2015.
The utility operations guidance range considers performance to-date and certain significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings volumes commodity prices ancillary services tax rates interest rates and financing activities.
In providing this guidance the company does not include other potential impacts such as changes in accounting standards the value of ZENS securities and the related stock or the timing effects of mark-to-market and inventory.
In providing midstream investment guidance the company takes into account such factors as Enable's most recent public forecast effective tax rate the amortizations of our bases different in Enable and other factors.
The company does not include other potential impact such as the impact of any changes in accounting standards or Enable's unusual items.
Before Scott begins I'd like to mention that this call is being recorded information on how to access the replay can be found on our website.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Scott.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Carla and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
As Carla mentioned this morning we will be referring to slides during our call.
They can be located on our website under the Investors section.
I'll start with slide four.
This morning we reported first quarter 2015 earnings of $131 million or $0.30 per diluted share compared with $185 million or $0.43 per diluted share in 2014.
Using the same basis that we use when providing guidance first quarter 2015 adjusted earnings would have also been $0.30 per diluted share compared to $0.40 for 2014.
On a guidance basis utility operations contributed $0.22 per diluted share and midstream investments contributed $0.08.
Compared to baseline earnings of $0.21 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2014 which Bill will discuss in more detail utility operations' earnings are up 4.8%.
This is consistent with utility EPS guidance provided earlier this year.
Our utility operations continue to perform well supported by growing service territories robust capital investment constructive regulatory environments and limited business risk.
These dynamics allow utility operations to be the ballast of our diversified portfolio and will help to continue to provide earnings growth.
Weather-related impacts across all of our businesses caused most of the variability this quarter.
Tracy Joe and Bill will share more details about this and other drivers for the quarter.
Despite the challenges that midstream companies have recently experienced due to lower energy commodity prices we continue to see opportunity in this space and believe that Enable Midstream Partners is well-positioned to succeed.
Drilling technology has fundamentally changed the landscape of the energy market as well as the role the United States plays in the global energy and feedstock market.
We believe domestic and global demand coupled with continued progress towards greater energy independence will require significant capital investment in infrastructure.
Enable remains well-positioned to participate in this infrastructure build-out as evidenced by their recent completion of the Bradley Processing Plant in the SCOOP as well as the Bear Den crude and produced water gathering system in the Bakken.
Last week Enable announced their acquisition of Monarch Natural Gas gathering assets in the Cleveland Sands Play and has stated it is immediately accretive.
Early indications show that the Houston economy remained strong despite press coverage regarding recently announced lay-offs in the energy sector.
Houston Electric's meter count increased by more than 11 000 in the first quarter which equates to an annualized growth rate of 2% this is consistent with employment and other economic data we are seeing.
According to the Greater Houston Partnership last year the Houston Metro area led the nation by adding a record-setting 157 000 residents between July of 2013 and July of 2014.
The partnership forecasts the addition of 120 000 new residents in 2015.
Our projected capital spending remains on target for the year at $1.5 billion a 9% increase over 2014.
We continue to utilize timely recovery mechanisms as well as rate case proceedings to help ensure effective and timely return on our investments.
Tracy and Joe will provide additional color on a number of these.
Before I wrap-up let me note that CenterPoint continues to be recognized for its strong customer service.
We were recently ranked first in the Midwest region and second in the South region among the largest natural gas utilities in the U.S.
for operational satisfaction in a 2014 Cogent Report conducted by Market Strategies International.
This report evaluated residential brand trust and engagement and the results reinforce our ongoing strategy to utilize technology to improve the customer experience.
We continue to focus on safe reliable and efficient operations coupled with improved services for our customers as our path to success and value creation for our shareholders.
I will now ask Tracy to discuss electric operations.
Thank you Scott.
Houston Electric had a solid quarter consistent with our expectations.
First quarter 2015 core operating income was $68 million compared with $75 million for the same period last year.
The business benefited from higher net transmission related revenue and strong customer growth.
These benefits were more than offset by the impacts of milder weather reduced equity return primarily related to true-up proceeds and lower right-of-way revenue.
Importantly growth continues to be strong.
Houston Electric added more than 11 000 metered customers during the first quarter of 2015 and if annualized this represents 2% meter growth.
On page six we show a chart contrasting oil prices employment and residential metered customers in the Houston area since 1980.
This chart shows steady customer growth despite large swings in oil prices and smaller variations in employment.
We believe long-term annual customer growth of 2% will be supported by Houston's diversified economy and culture as well as mild winters and a low cost of living.
Houston Electric continues to focus on O&amp;M expense management even as we address customer growth and robust capital spending.
During the first quarter of 2015 Houston Electric's O&amp;M increased less than 2% versus the first quarter of 2014.
This growth rate excludes certain expenses which have revenue offsets.
Next I will update you on our 345-kV transmission project which we call the Brazos Valley Connection detailed on slide seven.
On April 24 we filed an application for a Certificate of Convenience and Necessity with the Public Utility Commission of Texas.
We estimate the total project cost will be between $276 million and $383 million depending on the route approved by the PUC.
We expect the PUC will issue a final order in the fourth quarter addressing all issues including which route should be used.
Upon final approval we will begin construction and anticipate completing the project no later than mid-2018.
The new import project will improve the capacity of the Texas electric grid strengthen regional transmission capabilities and help support growing demand in the greater Houston area.
Turning to capital cost recovery mechanisms our transmission capital costs are recovered via transmission cost to service or TCOS filings.
The rate adjustment from our fourth quarter 2014 TCOS filing totaling over $23 million annually went into effect on February 25.
We anticipate making the two allowed TCOS filings this year.
For Distribution Capital Cost Recovery you will see on slide eight that we filed on April 6 to increase rates by $16.7 million annually using for the first time the Distribution Cost Recovery Factor mechanism or DCRF.
We expect the decision in July and have requested that rates become effective on September 1.
I would also like to note that legislative authority for the DCRF mechanism currently sunsets on January 1 2017; and as a result we have been working to get the legislation extended.
The DCRF sunset extension bills which move the sunset to September 1 2019 have successfully passed through the Texas House and Senate and we anticipate enactment by the end of the second quarter.
I will conclude by highlighting our successful Smart Meter deployment and ongoing Intelligent Grid implementation referenced on slide nine.
In addition to reducing costs these projects deliver additional reliability and efficiency benefits provide enhanced customer functionality and help the environment.
As a result of this Smart Meter project our customers have saved over $23 million per year in service fees.
Additionally residential customer surcharge covering part of the cost of the Smart Meter project will end this month reducing overall customer rates which are already among the most competitive in the nation.
Further since the beginning of this project we have saved more than one million gallons of fuel avoided 9 300 metric tons of CO2 and restored power to nearly 1.2 million customers without a phone call.
CenterPoint is at the forefront of the industry in this area and we are proud of our environmental contributions and our ability to manage expenses through the use of this technology.
I am pleased with Houston Electric's first quarter performance.
Growth remains strong and we will continue to focus on delivering safe reliable and efficient service.
Joe will now update you on the results for gas operations.
Thank you Tracy.
Our natural gas operations which includes both our gas utilities and our non-regulated energy services business also had a solid quarter in line with our expectations.
Natural gas utilities' first quarter 2015 operating income was $146 million compared with the $162 million for the same period last year while energy services reported operating income of $13 million this quarter compared with $26 million last year During the quarter our natural gas utilities business continued to benefit from rate relief and customer growth.
Robust economies in our service territories led the addition of approximately 37 000 new customers year-over-year and we are on track for continuing our 1% growth in 2015.
We were also successful in controlling O&amp;M expenses.
These benefits were more than offset by decrease in usage related to less extreme weather in 2015 compared to 2014 higher depreciation and amortization and higher property taxes.
Although heating degree days were higher than normal across our service territories they were significantly lower than the first quarter of last year.
As a reminder since 2007 we have hedged winter weather at our LDCs in those jurisdictions where we do not have weather normalization adjustments.
Normally the hedges mitigate significant year-over-year fluctuations.
However weather in the first quarter of 2014 was so cold; we exceeded the cap on that hedge by the end of January 2014.
As a result we were un-hedged in February and March of 2014 and booked significant income from weather-related usage in those two months.
This variance alone accounted for $9 million of the operating income decline in the first quarter of 2015.
Additionally the capital investments we're making to meet growth and ensure system reliability and safety have increased depreciation and amortization expenses.
These higher D&amp;A expenses will be recovered through rate recovery mechanisms and rate cases.
In addition operating income was reduced $3 million in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to the same quarter in 2014 due to a change in a customer charge in our last Minnesota rate case.
This reduction is primarily timing related and will reverse in subsequent quarters as the higher customer charge has the effect of smoothing revenues throughout the year.
As indicated on slide 11 we have made and will make several important regulatory filings in 2015.
These filings represent a combination of rate cases and the annual recovery mechanisms and are intended to compensate us for a substantial investment made to better serve our growing customer base.
We filed a Texas Coast rate case in late March seeking a nearly $7 million increase.
We expect that Texas Railroad Commission will issue a final order in the fourth quarter of this year.
Once the Texas Coast case is finalized we expect to utilize GRIP the annual infrastructure recovery mechanism to recover future incremental capital investment which will help reduce regulatory lag.
We also made GRIP filings in our Texas jurisdictions during the first quarter seeking a combined annual increase in rates of $10 million in two of those jurisdictions.
Additionally we plan to file rate cases in Minnesota during the third quarter and in Arkansas during the fourth quarter.
The majority of the increases will be reflected in 2016 results and we'll update you on the specifics later in the year.
As noted on slide 12 Act 725 was recently passed by the Arkansas Legislature and we believe this new law will benefit our utility operations in future years.
We have worked closely with the Arkansas PUC and its staff over the years and utilizing multiple alternative rate mechanisms.
Act 725 allows the utility to move away from filing multiple annual mechanisms to requesting a comprehensive formula rate plan that includes a forward test year with annual true-up of rates around a banded ROE.
We view this regulatory option is positive with the potential to reduce regulatory lag in Arkansas and recover capital investment in a more timely manner.
Turning to our non-regulated energy services business the first quarter's results included $4 million mark-to-market loss compared with a $4 million gain the previous year.
The remaining decrease was margin-related resulting primarily from reduced weather-related optimization opportunities compared with the first quarter of 2014.
Our energy services business continue to grow its retail customers at a solid pace adding over 800 commercial and industrial customers or a 5% increase over last year.
This was a solid quarter despite the impact of quarter-over-quarter weather variances and again consistent with our expectations.
We continue to focus on delivering safe and reliable natural gas as well as creating first rate customer experiences by providing customers with more choices and customized services.
I'll now turn the call over to the Bill Rogers who'll cover financial activities.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
I have a few topics to review this morning and will start by discussing the quarter-over-quarter earnings drivers some of which Tracy and Joe addressed.
As Scott mentioned earlier and the slide 14 shows our earnings per share on a guidance basis was $0.30 in the first quarter of 2015 compared with $0.40 per share earned in the 02014 quarter.
As a reminder our EPS on a guidance basis excludes the impacts of items such as mark-to-market adjustments at our energy services business and our ZENS securities and related reference shares.
At midstream investments lower equity income from Enable impacted EPS by $0.05 per diluted share.
At the utility operations level we have provided two waterfall charts to help illustrate our normalized operational performance on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
The first of these charts is at the bottom of page 14 and shows utility operations' first quarter 2014 EPS on a guidance basis of $0.27 per share.
After normalizing $0.05 to exclude the benefit of colder weather and $0.01 associated with 2014's higher equity return primarily associated with Houston Electric's true-up proceeds we arrived at a 2014 first quarter utility operations' baseline of $0.21 per diluted share.
These adjustments are consistent with the baseline adjustments we highlighted for you in our 2014 year-end call when we provided our 2014 full-year utility operations' baseline of $0.70.
This is the baseline from which we feel operational performance should be measured.
Turning to slide 15; this second chart takes you from the first quarter 2014 utility operations baseline of $0.21 to the first quarter of 2015 utility operations of $0.22.
As you can see strong customer growth and rate relief benefited the quarter by $0.03 per diluted share.
These benefits were partially offset by $0.01 of higher interest expense and another $0.01 of number of factors such as a higher depreciation expense lower right-of-way revenue and higher O&amp;M.
These drivers resulted in 2015 first quarter utility operations' EPS on a guidance basis of $0.22 per diluted share.
This 4.8% growth rate from our 2014 first quarter baseline of $0.21 is in line with our 2015 guidance and our longer term EPS growth rate of 4% to 6%.
Turning to O&amp;M CenterPoint's total O&amp;M excluding expenses of corresponding revenue offset such as TCOS was up just under 2% on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
This increase in O&amp;M expense is primarily due to higher labor costs including benefits.
We are committed to looking for further opportunities to optimize our operating cost structure.
Now turning to cash flow; during the quarter we posted strong cash flows from operating activities including $165 million from a retroactive bonus appreciation and $72 million in distributions received from Enable.
Further with respect to cash distributions from Enable the Enable board of directors declared on April 24 a quarterly cash distribution of which we expect to receive approximately $73 million.
This represents a 1.2% increase over the prior quarter distribution and if annualized is consistent with the midpoint of Enable's 2015 forecast of 3% to 7% distribution growth.
Our $1.5 billion capital plan for 2015 is on track.
Through the end of the first quarter we have invested $309 million.
As described in our 2014 Form 10-K we plan to invest $7.4 billion over the next five years.
As we consider how to finance this capital plan we are continually looking for opportunities to optimize our capital structure through our debt and equity capital formation activities.
And we are diligent in considering if and when equity is appropriate.
We have strong financial liquidity at the company and plan to use our existing debt capacity to source the majority of our financing needs.
As we do this we will be attentive to debt refinancing opportunities to further reduce our interest expense as well as to maintain our regulatory capital structures and our solid investment grade credit ratings.
Additionally as we shared in our February earnings call we are not planning a secondary offering of common equity over the next five years.
However if appropriate we may consider issuing original issue shares through our benefits and Investor's Choice Plans.
Based on CenterPoint's results and a most recent public forecast made by Enable we reaffirm our 2015 consolidated earnings estimates of $1 to $1.10 per diluted share.
We reaffirmed the component parts of that with utility operations of $0.71 to $0.75 and the midstream investments of $0.29 to $0.35.
This guidance assumes a consolidated effective tax rate of approximately 37% and an average share count of 431 million shares.
Before I turn the call back over to Carla I would like to remind you of the $0.2475 per share quarterly dividend declared by our board of directors on April 23.
We believe that the strength of our balance sheet coupled with strong earnings and cash flow supports our dividend under a wide variety of circumstances.
With that I would like to thank you for continued interest in CenterPoint Energy.
And I will now turn the call back over Carla.
Thank you Bill.
We will open the call to questions.
In the interest of time I'd ask you to limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Ginger? At this time we will begin taking questions.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Carl Kirst from BMO Capital.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Maybe a couple of questions on just CenterPoint Electric and first on Brazos Valley could you remind me if there is from an opposition standpoint is there anything in front of ERCOT that we need to be following or to the extent there is any opposition that will get taken into account in the PUC proceeding? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Carl good morning.
This is Scott.
I'm going to ask Tracy to answer that question for you.
Good morning Carl.
Hey.
We have two sizeable generation interveners in that proceeding one is Calpine and the other is NRG.
It's not a surprise to us they've filed a complaint at the PUC relative to the methodology that ERCOT used to determine the critical need for this asset but this is all in the course of business.
So we'll see how it plays out I still like our chances very much.
Okay.
But it basically all kind of wrapped up within the PUC proceeding we're not waiting to hear from ERCOT for instance on anything? That's exactly right.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
And then second if I could I'll chalk it up to Monday morning can you remind me the issue of the reduced return on equity at CEHE with respect to the true-up proceeds? Carl this is Tracy I'm not clear on your question could you restate it please? Well just the $6 million reduction over first quarter of 2014 that was attributed to the true up proceeds.
Now I got you.
And I just want to make sure I'm understanding the mechanics that's going on? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Carl I'm going to ask Bill to answer that question for you.
I think he can give you the answer.
Right.
Got it.
So Carl good morning.
Thank you.
So it's not so much that was reduced in 2015 as it was that we were earning more than forecast in 2014.
I got it.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yep.
Your next question comes from Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Ali.
Good morning.
Scott first question you guys have told this to us before that the dividend that you're going to get from Enable the tax rate on that distribution is going to go up pretty materially over the next few years.
So on an after-tax basis should we assume that that distribution to CenterPoint should be declining over that three-year period as that tax rate jumps up? Is that a fair way to think about it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bill do you want to answer this? Yes.
Thanks Scott.
And good morning Ali.
I'll take this question and answer it in two parts if I can.
It's unclear as to the direction of the tax rate.
Enable has provided where they expect to invest in 2015 as well as their distributions in 2015.
The effective tax rate to CenterPoint in future years will depend upon the rate of Enable's investment as well as any changes or what's in effect at the time on the tax code.
We have provided a forecast to you as to what that could be and that is over the next five years approximately 25%.
But that will go up and down depending upon how much Enable invest.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
So we'll keep an eye on that.
Secondly when do you think you will be in a position CenterPoint to be able to articulate your dividend growth plans going forward? I know a lot of that is hampered by the timing from the Enable side but from a CenterPoint perspective when do you think you are in that position? And related to that if the macro environment doesn't change six months or 12 months from now is there a plan B or what's the plan from your side? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Ali the question you asked about – the first one you had asked about our dividend growth rate.
As you know we had pulled back from providing multiple years based on Enable's reduction in terms of the period they were looking forward.
We'll be in a better position to articulate a growth rate.
Once Enable is able to provide a little bit more clarity on their future growth in other words beyond 2015.
At this point they've said that they anticipate being able to provide more projection on their second quarter call.
So that's when we should have more information.
I will tell you though that just from a dividend standpoint we've remained committed to providing a secured competitive and growing dividend and we're going to keep focused on that.
Hopefully we'll be able to provide a little bit greater clarity on what that growth rate looks like once we get some more information from Enable.
And your ownership plans for Enable Scott? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Our ownership plans are staying as they are Ali.
We have Enable as part of our portfolio.
They're important part of our portfolio.
We see great opportunity for them to take advantage of what's going on in the marketplace today.
They've got a solid balance sheet.
There's good opportunities ahead of them.
I personally believe the infrastructure space is going to be – it's going to continue to be built out for a number of reasons.
So I think there's good growth opportunity there.
And I would hate to offer hypothesized considerations on alternatives when our focus right now is to make sure that Enable is performing well and is capitalizing on the opportunities that they have in front of them.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Matt Tucker from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Just wanted to ask first on the Brazos Valley project could you talk a little bit more about the variables behind the low and the high-end of the cost range? And should we look at that as $276 million or $383 million or could it land somewhere in between? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Matt.
Good morning this is Scott.
I'm going to ask Tracy to answer that one for you.
Good morning Matt.
It could land somewhere in between to answer your question directly.
The low-end is more related to a direct route which could be selected by the PUC.
The high-end is to take account of the fact that there are more than 30 routes proposed as alternatives for the PUC to consider.
And if you imagine some 90 degree angles and some different transmission structures the cost goes up as the variance from a straight line and from traditional construction standards vary.
So back to the answer the answer is it could be somewhere in between.
We've said fairly consistently that $300 million is our best estimate but this is a more precise range depending on the route and the actual construction materials that have to be used based on the route.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks Tracy.
Just wanted to ask also about the weather impact on utility operations.
Understand that there was a significant headwind year-over-year looks like it was still colder than normal though this year.
So was there a benefit versus normal in the first quarter of 2015 or was that all offset by the weather hedge? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Matt the benefit we saw on the first quarter was technically favorable but it was fairly negligible.
It was fairly small.
It was colder than normal you are correct but it was fairly negligible on a normal – comparing it to normal.
The bigger consideration is as you've noted and that is a substantial impact to the negative when compared to last year's rather severe winter.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks Scott.
And then just final question maybe a bit early but would you expect much opposition to the legislation to extend the DCRF or should that get approved fairly easily? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're fairly confident that that's going to pass it has been approved by both the House and Senate.
It's on the Governor's desk at the moment.
So we're anticipating a passage by the end of the second quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Sounds good.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question is from John Edwards from Credit Suisse.
Yeah good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning John.
Thanks for the color.
Just following up on Ali's question I'm just trying to figure out basically how you're thinking about your strategy going forward it sounds like your dividend growth outlook is dependent on Enable.
So if that's sort of slowing down that's slowing down the dividend growth so obviously it raises the question of whether you should spin it off or not to Ali's question.
It doesn't look like you have that much growth out of the utility given what the payout is to support dividend growth.
Maybe I'm just missing something here.
So maybe you could kind of talk about those type of trade-offs as you sort of look forward with respect to dividend policy? John this is Bill.
I'll start out with that and if Scott cares to add comments he'll follow.
As Scott said we recognized the importance of a secure and competitive dividend as well as a growing dividend.
We also recognize the volatility of earnings growth rates in the midstream sector but we have to accept that this volatility does not necessarily translate into a volatile growth rate and dividends as we seek value in a stable consistent payout and growth rate.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Just echoing Bill's comments we have clearly been impacted by the change in forecast that Enable has shared with us and what we're really waiting for is some additional clarity from them as to what the future holds as they get more information in from their producers.
That said they have specific levers that they can use to help manage cash flows.
We have specific levers as well that we can use to help manage cash flows.
And as Bill said our objective is to have a dividend that is competitive it's secure and it's growing.
And that's what we're going to focus on.
Okay.
That's helpful.
So just if for example Enable is on more of this call it a 4% to 5% growth trajectory for their distributions how does that impact your – because remember when they came out they obviously we were thinking much higher than that if it's a mid single-digit type profile.
How should we think about what the growth profile might be at the CenterPoint level? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we haven't provided direction on that but one way to think about it is if their growth rate is less than what they had originally forecasted over the long-term they'll have some levers internally that they can use to help manage the actual cash flows and distributions.
And then we have some levers internally as well to ensure that we're working towards providing a dividend that's competitive with our peers.
And so we've got some levers here they have some levers.
So even if their growth rate they project comes down we both have some levers we can use to help manage the growth of the dividend appropriately.
Okay.
And can you articulate on some of the internal levers you're thinking about now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bill do you want to add? Sure.
I mean John clearly the declaration of the dividend and the longer-term growth rate is something the board studies hard and they make the declarations.
We don't want to get ahead of our board on this.
But we recognize that the levers that we have are not only the strength of our balance sheet but taking a look at other factors that go into our financial statements.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And John I want to point out too just remind you that we do have good utility growth over this period.
So we've got good support from our utilities for growth of the dividend as well.
Right I recognize that just the payout is obviously pretty high right now so that's what was given rise to this question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the overall payout for the company probably is high but when you look at the component parts the utility is still on a fairly reasonable range of payout.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome.
Your next question is from Lauren Duke from Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Lauren.
Inc.</span></strong> Bill you talked a little bit about looking for other ways to kind of control O&amp;M.
Can you just talk about where you're seeing the most opportunity there and what sort of increased run rate do you think we should think about for you guys in the future? Lauren it's Bill.
I'll start with that and then ask if either Tracy or Joe would like to add to it.
We're committed to discipline in respect to the growth rate in our O&amp;M.
We do recognize that there will be some growth because we have growing customer base growing volume sales in both the electric and the gas business.
The way for us to address that is to look hard at not only our labor cost structure but maintenance contracts and quite frankly to get more efficient in all that we do which is more a matter of many many small items throughout our business than it is any one large item.
Joe or Tracy? I'll start Lauren.
In our gas business for years now we've been investing in capital that's had the effect of making us more efficient operationally.
And I think if you were in New York in June we showed a pretty low growth rate in our O&amp;M over the last several years.
And we don't expect that to be much more than 2% or so over the next several years as we continue to take advantage of that.
Good example is our customer service.
We've made a lot of investment in technology and in systems there.
And so we're bringing down the unit cost of fielding calls and taking care of our customers and we've taken advantage of all of that.
And not to mention as we spend more capital.
More of our labor is capitalized as opposed to expense.
So those are a few of the factors that'll help us control O&amp;M.
Lauren this is Tracy.
I'll build on Joe's point because it's a similar story.
I touched on the very significant capital projects we have we've completed our Smart Meter deployment of 2.3 million meters in 2012 and we're in the process of deploying our Intelligent Grid.
That automates what was previously very manually-intensive processes.
So that definitely helps us convert manual expense-driven things into capital-driven things.
And also customer service on the electric side the best example we have there is Power Alert Service.
We have 400 000 of our 2.3 million customers enrolled in this voluntary program and it allows us to proactively send them messages on what we know when we know it so that they don't have to call us.
And if they don't have to call us we don't have to have as much customer service expense and customer satisfaction increases.
So discipline efficiency substituting capital for expense those are all themes that we continue to drive.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
And then can you also beyond the Brazos Valley connection can you talk a little bit about whether you're seeing other larger scale transmission opportunities in the states that you guys are considering? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Lauren this is Scott I'll answer that one for you.
Most of our investment on transmission is right around our footprint.
So the nature of investment is either within the footprint where we're building investing in transmission and substations for industrial growth which is kind of the other big theme in terms of transmission investment.
Beyond that the next – kind of the next wave of potential investment might be for additional import capabilities but that would be many many years out into the future and really going to have to be a function of evaluation done at that time about the balance between growing demand in the load pocket and the amount of generation that's available locally.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Our next question is from Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
Thank you.
I've got a question for Tracy.
But maybe before that I'll just say that I've been one of the people concerned about the impact of the fall in oil and gas prices with respect to Houston load growth or customer growth.
That slide you have on number six really addresses that very well.
I compliment you on that.
And then Tracy my question is do you see any significant challenges to the DCRF extension? I would think that would be a lot tamer than what has gone on with the import project? Charles the answer is no we don't foresee any issues with that.
We think it will be enacted into law by the end of the second quarter.
Both bills are identical.
They've passed the House and have passed the Senate in Texas.
And as Scott said we're simply waiting for enactment.
So we don't see any issues with the continuation of that legislative authority.
Okay.
Thank you.
That was all I had.
Our last question is from Jeremy Tonet from JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Jeremy.
Just wanted to start off with a quick housekeeping item could you remind us on the utility side what was the trailing 12 months payout ratio? Do you have that handy? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bill do you happen to have that? We will get that for you.
Okay.
Yeah that'd be helpful.
Great.
And then just wanted to see if you had any thought I think there was some discussion as far as alternative structures.
I think a peer out there had been discussing in the marketplace as far as whether or not to utilize a REIT structure or there was some discussion general around that.
And I am wondering if you guys had paid any thought to that and if you had any thoughts to share there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Jeremy.
That's an interesting space.
We have actually been looking at REITs and examining the many issues around them as you well know.
Looking for opportunities where REIT structure could be value enhancing for either our customers or the rate payers I'm sorry – or the investors.
And what we're seeing so far is while this is interesting there's still a number of complications in regulatory issues that we think make this space more challenging than opportunistic; but that said we're going to keep exploring and keep looking at how that area develops to see if it could represent opportunity for us.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
This does conclude CenterPoint Energy's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you everyone for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
We'll conclude our first quarter 2015 earnings call.
Have a nice day.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
During the company's prepared remarks all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session after management's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to David Mordy Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Mordy? Thank you Ginger.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division; and Bill Rogers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will discuss our second quarter 2015 result and provide highlights on other key areas.
We also have with us other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
In conjunction with the call today we will be using slides which can be found under the Investor section of our website centerpointenergy.com.
For a reconciliation of the earnings guidance provided in today's call please refer to our earnings press release which along with our Form 10-Q has been posted on our website.
Please note that we may announce material information using SEC filings press releases public conference calls webcasts and post to the investor section of our website.
In the future we will continue to use these channels to communicate important information and encourage you to review the information on our website.
Today management is going to discuss certain topics that will contain projections and forward-looking information that are based on management's beliefs assumptions and information currently available to management.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks or uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially based upon factors including weather variations regulatory actions economic conditions commodity prices changes in our service territories and other risk factors noted in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss our guidance for 2015.
The utility operations guidance range considers performance to date and certain significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings volumes commodity prices ancillary services tax rates interest rates and financing activities.
In providing this guidance the Company does not include other potential impacts such as changes in accounting standards the value of ZENS securities and the related stocks or the timing effects of mark to market and inventory.
In providing midstream investment guidance the Company takes into account such factors as Enable's most recent public forecast effective tax rate the amortization of our bases different in Enable and other factors.
The Company does not include other potential impact such as the impact of any changes in accounting standards or Enable's unusual items.
Before Scott begins I would like to mention that this call is being recorded.
Information on how to access that replay can be found on our website.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you David and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
This morning as noted on Slide 4 we've reported second quarter 2015 earnings of $77 million or $0.18 per diluted share compared with $107 million or $0.25 per diluted share in the same quarter of last year.
Using the same basis that we use when providing guidance second quarter 2015 adjusted earnings would have been $0.19 per diluted share compared with $0.21 for 2014.
On a guidance basis utility operations contributed $0.13 per diluted share versus $0.10 in 2014.
Midstream investments contributed $0.06 per diluted share compared to $0.11 in 2014.
Bill will discuss these results in more detail later in the call.
Our utility operations' continue to perform well.
We have added over 85 000 metered customers during the last 12 months which along with system improvements remain key drivers behind our robust capital spending.
We are carefully managing cost as O&amp;M expenses net of revenue offsets are up 1% versus the second quarter of 2014.
We continue to execute our regulatory strategy filing rate increases and annual recovery mechanisms as needed in pursuit of earning our allowed returns.
Our growing service territories and capital plan coupled with constructive regulatory environments and disciplined O&amp;M spending continue to support strong performance by our utility operations.
Next let me turn to Enable midstream which we highlight on Slide 5.
As many of you know Enable recently shared its growth outlook of 3% to 7% per unit annual distribution growth in 2016 and 2017.
This includes the forecast for high single-digit growth in natural gas gathering volumes 25% growth in natural gas processing volumes and a doubling of crude oil gathering volumes.
As Enable said on their earnings call they are well positioned for growth with assets in some of the best share plays including the SCOOP the STACK Cana Woodford and Cleveland Sands plays.
Enable has connected more wells year-to-date through July 2015 than year-to-date through July 2014.
For 2016 and 2017 combined Enable's expansion capital outlook ranges from $1.6 billion to $2.5 billion.
We continue to believe in the value of our Enable midstream investment and remain focused on providing governance in support of enhancing Enable's performance.
Overall I'm pleased with our second quarter results.
Utility operations experienced strong ongoing growth and Enable performed as anticipated in a challenging commodity market.
Today we are updating our dialogue regarding how we think about returning capital to our investors.
After consideration of the current market environment input from the investment community and discussions with our board we believe an earnings based approach to our dividend practice will help provide clarity simplicity and consistency.
Our objective will simply be to grow our dividend in line with our consolidated earnings growth which Bill will discuss in more detail later in the call.
I want to express my appreciation to our employees who after a series of severe storms in April May and June worked countless hours to restore power safely and efficiently.
You may have seen some of the images of flooding in Huston on National news.
More than 25 inches of rain fell over two concentrated period of time and our collective utility systems performed well.
The gas system was essentially not impacted by the rains and the customer effects and outages on our electric system were reduced by distribution automation.
Proactive communications to those customers enrolled in our new power alert service provided them with timely outage restoration information.
I'm extremely proud of our employees and their commitment to ensuring that every day our customers receive energy from safe reliable energy delivery systems.
I will now ask Tracy and Joe to discuss quarter-over-quarter operating income as well as provide updates on their respective businesses.
Bill will follow by bridging operating income to EPS and contrasting our performance with last year’s base line number.
Tracy? Thank you Scott.
Houston Electric had a solid quarter consistent with our expectations.
As you can see on Slide 8 second quarter 2015 core operating income was $131 million compared with $115 million for the same period last year.
The business benefitted from higher net transmission related revenue continued strong customer growth and a return to more normal weather.
These benefits were partially offset by an expected reduction in the equity return primarily related to true-up proceeds.
Houston Electric’s customer growth remains strong.
Through the first-half of the year we have added nearly 23 000 metered customers which equates to an annualized growth rate of 2%.
As we have mentioned in the past our forecasted 2% customer growth equates to approximately $25 million to $30 million of incremental revenue annually.
Houston’s 4.5% unemployment rate in June remains below the national average of 5.3% and our housing market remains tight at three-month supply versus a balance supply of six months.
As the chart on Slide 9 shows employment growth may slow at times but over the past 24 years our residential customer compound annual growth rate has slightly exceeded 2%.
Houston Electric continues to manage cost effectively.
During the second quarter of 2015 O&amp;M expenses increased approximately 2% over the second quarter of 2014.
This growth rate excludes certain expenses that have revenue offsets.
We will strive to continue operating the business as efficiently as possible while maintaining a safe and reliable system to serve our growing customer base.
As you will see on Slide 10 we’ve had a busy quarter on the regulatory front and we are pleased with the results.
During the quarter we filed our first Distribution Cost Recovery Factor filing or DCRF which allows for rate adjustments associated with recovery of distribution capital invested since our last general rate case.
A settlement was reached and approved for an annual revenue increase of $13 million which will go into effect on September 1.
Additionally in December -- additionally in June the DCRF sunset extension legislation was enacted which extends the mechanism sunset until September of 2019 allowing us to utilize the mechanism up to three additional times before a general rate case is required.
We also filed two other cost recovering mechanisms which include our first of two planned Transmission Cost Of Service or TCOS filings this year and our annual energy efficiency cost recovery factor filing.
Our TCOS filing was submitted on June 26th and seeks an annual revenue increase of $13.7 million.
We anticipate a decision on this filing during the third quarter of this year.
Our energy efficiency cost recovery factor filing seeks to recover next year’s estimated expenses associated with our energy efficiency program as well as a $7 million incentive related to the program's performance in 2014.
Finally in April we filed an application for a certificate of convenience and necessity for our Brazos Valley connection transmission line.
This transmission line is the largest capital project in our five-year plan.
32 alternative routes were submitted to the PUC and the final route they select will determine the estimated capital cost of the project.
We anticipate a commission decision on both the route of and need for the transmission line during the first quarter of 2015 with construction of the project being completed by mid-2018.
The critical status grounded to this project highlights the load growth and our service territory -- highlights the load growth our service territory is experiencing.
As an example of that load growth during the last week in July Houston Electric hit four consecutive July peak loads.
I am pleased with Houston Electric's second quarter performance.
Growth remain strong and we will continue to focus on delivering safe reliable and efficient service.
Joe will now update you on the results for gas operations.
Thank you Tracy.
Our natural gas operations which includes both our gas utilities and our non-regulated energy services business performed in line with our expectations during the second quarter as more normal weather returned to all our jurisdictions.
As you can see on Slide 12 natural gas utility second quarter 2015 operating income was $19 million compared with $30 million for the same period last year.
This decline is attributable to return to more normal weather in addition to higher depreciation expense.
As I mentioned on the first quarter call we exceeded our weather hedge cap in January 2014 and benefited from the subsequent extreme cold weather that persisted well into April and May that year particularly in Minnesota.
As a result our natural gas utilities experienced a decline in operating income in the first-half of this year but we expect year-over-year improvements in operating income through the remainder of the year.
The economies continue to be strong in our service territories and we added approximately 36 000 new customers year-over-year.
Excluding expenses that have a revenue offset we are successful in managing O&amp;M to an increase of under 1% compared to the second quarter of last year.
Moving on to slide 13 I would like to highlight a number of our items that advance our long term strategy specifically regulatory developments and capital investments to meet growth needs and ensure system reliability and safety.
Recent regulatory filings represent a combination of rate cases and the annual recovery mechanisms which are intended to help recover the substantial investments we made to better serve our growing customer base.
On August 3rd we filed a general rate case in Minnesota to increase overall rates by $54 million annually.
Our filing is based on forward test year and a rate base of $913 million which reflects the significant capital expenditures we're making across our Minnesota service territory.
We have requested an ROE of 10.3% and a 53% equity capital structure.
Interim rates are expected to go into effect in October with a final decision around mid-2016.
We reached a settlement agreement on our Texas coast rate case and are awaiting approval by the Texas Railroad Commission.
The settlement provides a $4.9 million annual increase and a 10% ROE.
With the Texas coast case finalized we expect to utilize GRIP the annual infrastructure recovery mechanism as early as March 2016 to recover incremental capital investment.
In Arkansas we continue to anticipate filing a rate case the fourth quarter of 2015 and are evaluating for the case possible usage of Act 725 Arkansas' recently enacted law related to formula rate plans.
Slide 14 highlights a portion of our capital spending in Minnesota.
Our Belt Line replacement project begin in 2012 and is expected to be completed in 2023.
This project is replacing pipe that was put in service over 60 years ago and Intel [ph] is replacing their steel pipe upgrading cathodic protection systems and installing remote control wells.
Investing capital to improve safety and reliability while reducing O&amp;M is win for all our stake holders.
I'll next turn to slide 15 and our energy services business which primarily provide competitive natural gas supply services to commercial industrial institutional and transportation customers.
This businesses second quarter results reflects another solid performance.
Operating income was $7 million for the second quarter of 2015 compare with $5 million for the same period in 2014 excluding mark to market gains of $2 million and $6 million respectively.
Volumes were nearly flat as economic growth in certain regions has slowed somewhat but overall customer counting increased 1.8% year-over-year.
Additionally O&amp;M expenses were slightly lower consistent with Company's focus on holding down operating costs.
This was a solid quarter for natural gas operations despite the impact of a return to normal weather and the regulatory filings I discuss should position as well to continue growing this business.
I'll now turn the call over to the Bill who will cover financial activities.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
Tracy and Joe have reviewed their respective operating income on a quarter to quarter basis.
I will now provide a review over earnings per share on a guidance basis.
Following that I will review utility operations for the second quarter 2015 versus the base line for the second quarter 2014 with a focus on those items that are below the operating income line.
Our earnings per share on a guidance basis were $0.19 in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $0.21 for the second quarter of 2014.
As a reminder our EPS on a guidance basis excludes the impact of items such as mark to market adjustments at our energy service business and our ZENS securities and related reference shares.
At Midstream Investments as previously mentioned by Scott Lower equity income from Enable Midstream Partners impacted EPS at CenterPoint by $0.05 per diluted share.
For utility operations we have provided two waterfall charts to help illustrate our normalized operational performance quarter over quarter.
The first of these charts is on Page 17 and shows utility operations second quarter 2014 EPS on a guidance basis of $0.10 per diluted share.
Houston Electric experienced cooler than normal weather in the second quarter of 2014.
Therefore we normalized up $0.01.
We normalized down $0.01 to account for 2014's higher equity returns primarily associated with timing issues around Houston Electric's equity true-up proceeds.
As a result we landed on a baseline of $0.10 per diluted share for second quarter 2014.
This is the base line from which we feel operational performance should be measured.
These adjustments are consistent with the baseline adjustments we highlighted in our year end 2014 call.
We have included a slide from that call in the Appendix along with a breakdown of adjustments by quarter.
The second chart on Slide 18 takes you from the second quarter 2014 utility operations baseline of $0.10 to utility operations utility operations' EPS on a guidance basis of $0.13 for this quarter.
As Tracy and Joe discussed their combined core operating income on a guidance basis improved from a $150 million to $157 million in the quarter.
This $7 million improvement along with an increase of $4 million in other income resulted in a favorable earnings per share of $0.02 for the quarter.
Through debt management interest expense was flat on a period to period basis.
For all of 2015 we expect interest expense to be lower when compared to all of 2014.
We had a lower effective tax rate of 32% in the quarter this was due to a lower Texas tax rate and to some permanent differences.
For the full year we expect an effective tax rate of 35%.
All together the second quarter was stronger than anticipated for utility operations.
Now with respect to earnings and dividends you will see on Slide 19 we are targeting annual earnings per share growth of 4% to 6% on a guidance basis through 2018 inclusive of our midstream investments.
We anticipate dividend growth will follow EPS growth.
We do recognize that our overall payout ratio for 2015 will likely be above 90%.
We are comfortable with that payout ratio and related earnings retention due to the sources of cash and earnings supporting the dividend.
We anticipate the overall payout ratio will result in a retention of 30% to 40% of our utility operations earnings.
These retained earnings support needed capital investment without having to consider a secondary offering of common equity.
In addition to these considerations our board of directors takes into account the current state of the capital markets our financial liquidity capital strength and our financial forecast when reviewing and declaring our dividends.
On Slide 20 I'll review our anticipated financing plans for 2015 and 2016.
As stated earlier retaining 30% to 40% of our utility operations earnings will allow us to finance our investment in rate base with minimal need for additional equity.
We have strong financial liquidity and plan to use our retained earnings and balance sheet strength to source much of our financing needs.
This year we expect to have incremental borrowings of $400 million.
These increased borrowings are primarily through our commercial paper program.
If appropriate we will consider fix rate longer term maturity debt.
Looking forward to 2016 we expect to have a similar incremental financing need as 2015.
However the ultimate amount will depend upon our capital investment our ability to manage working capital and bonus depreciation amongst other factors.
We expect to finance 2016 via fixed rate debt and commercial paper borrowings.
If appropriate we may consider equity financing through limited use of our drip and benefit plans.
Finally based on our utility operations results and forecast and the most recent public outlook provided by Enable CenterPoint is pleased to reaffirm our 2015 consolidated earnings estimate of $1 to $1.10 per diluted share.
We believe utility operations will be on the high side of the $0.71 to $0.75 range and midstream investments will be on the low side of the $0.29 to $0.35 range.
As I conclude I would like to remind you of the $0.24 and 3/4 per share quarterly dividend declared by our board on July 24th.
With that I will now turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Bill.
We will now open the call to questions.
In the interest of time I will ask you to limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Ginger? At this time we will begin taking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question from Neel Mitra from Tudor Pickering.
My questions are around the dividend policy.
Is the 46% something that you intend to sustain regardless of where earnings are or is it the dividend is going to move with the earnings growth? And if the second case is true how's that really different from I guess the policy prior to this? Neel the intent is that earnings or dividends will follow earnings.
So what we've done on this call is we've firmed up our earnings target over the next through years of 4% to 6% growth and that's inclusive of both the utility and the equity investment in our midstream business.
Got it.
So is it -- are you still kind of speaking as a policy of 60% to 70% of the utility earnings and paying out almost all of the Enable cash distributions out? I think those numbers may work out fairly close.
It's certainly our intent to have the utility operate such that we are retaining 30% to 40% of their earnings for reinvestment.
Given the fact that we’re at relatively high payout ratio a good amount of all the cash coming in from Enable is being paid out through the dividend.
But the policy we want to really emphasize is now that we're at this elevated payout ratio the policy is -- or the approach I should say is that we will target dividend growth with our earnings growth.
And one last quick follow-up with the 2% customer growth what’s the trend been for usage I guess for customers? So has that come down or has it stayed fairly constant? It's been very constant Neel.
We see little bit of what I’ll call noise on usage but it has to do with imperfect calculation of -- we're making weather adjustments.
But as we look over the longer period we’re essentially seeing a very flat usage profile on a weather adjusted basis.
Our next question comes from Matt Tucker from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hoping you could just talk a little bit more about what’s driving the utility operations towards the higher end of your guidance range for the year? Well a couple of things and I’ll let my colleagues add to it if they would like to.
But first of all we’ve got good expense management that’s occurring.
We are benefiting from maintaining a very strong focus on expense management.
We are also experiencing -- as we sit here today we look forward we can see that the weather continues to be warm here in Houston and we know that that will have some impacts in the third quarter as we look forward.
So that’s impacting us as well.
Bill do you want to add anything about? I think Matt that I would add that through -- we'll refer to as debt management within our balance sheet we’ll be able to lower interest expense in 2015.
If you had a chance to take a look as our 10-Q you’ll see we’re free cash flow positive for the six months of the year.
That's to say that cash from operations exceeded dividends and capital investment.
So we feel good about that.
And then finally the last settlement would be a lower effective tax rate for the 2015 year.
And follow-up to that I didn’t see right of way revenues mentioned.
It's been a nice tailwind for Houston Electric for the past several quarters.
Where are you on that year-to-date and kind of where do you expect to end up for the year? Matt I'm going to ask Tracy to answer that for us.
For the second quarter Matt we had $1 million of right-of-way revenue.
So through the first half of the year we’re at about $9 million.
We continue to estimate that our range at year-end will be somewhere between $10 million and $20 million of right-of-way revenue.
And if I could ask one more you had expressed interest in the past in potentially acquiring on core.
It looks like [indiscernible] is going to end up buying that.
Just curious if you could comment on how that process played out for you guys? How involved were you? Matt I’ll just respond by saying I think you know we don’t -- we’re not commenting on specific transactions.
That’s the position that we’ve taken here and we like you and the rest of the industry have kind of been watching this event unfold as EFH [ph] works through their bankruptcy process.
Our next question comes from Ali Agha from SunTrust.
So I was coming back to the dividend growth policy 4% to 6% along with earnings growth.
As you know that is pretty consistent with what normal regulated utilities are providing and telling investors as well.
So I'm just curious from your vantage point given that outlook through 2018 are you feeling that the MLP ownership is providing you that extra value added that is commensurate with the extra risk and volatility that that business brings to the table to you and your share price? So Ali I would tell you that I still remain very bullish on the investment that’s going to be made in this space and if you just look at what Enable reported on their call their investment continues to increase their volumes are up.
It's apparent becoming more apparent to me that producers in the U.S.
are able to compete even at these lower commodity prices and we’re very pleased with many of the plays that we are in.
So I am still very bullish on this space.
Now the growth that we’ve put out from an earnings forecast for the Company is as you pointed out consistent with what we’ve said that would be the utility performance and I would say it's there largely because of the near-term forecast associated with these lower commodities.
So I think we all believe we’ll turn around and go back up at some point in the future and if Enable's performance improves or increases in the future then that gives us some upside potential to reflect on our own EPS.
So Scott or Bill how stress tested are those numbers particularly from the Enable side given where we’ve come from? If the commodity starts to go further south how comfortable would you be in that 4% to 6% number you laid out for us? Ali I would characterize as it as we have done our own stress testing and sensitivity analysis beyond what Enable has provided publicly.
So we've done some stress testing of their performance and we've done some stress testing around the utility performance and collectively have confidence that in the near term a 4% to 6% earnings growth target is achievable.
I will say that it's within what I would consider the reasonable implications of commodity sensitivity looks.
If oil gets down to $25 or $30 a barrel for a sustained period of time and gas drops to very low levels we will have to re-evaluate but we have done stress testing beyond what Enable has shared as their ranges.
And last question Bill when at the earliest -- when you look out to this program to 2018 do you see a need for potentially blocked equity or more equity than small DRIP programs or do you not see that at all over the 2018 period? I'll ask Bill to answer this one for you.
Ali we don’t see any need for a block offering of equity.
We don’t see a need for issuing any equity in 2015 as I said.
We continue to visit both '16 and '17 as where there is a need for any equity in those years earlier.
But there is nowhere in this forecast that we are providing a view with respect to a need for block equity.
Our next question comes from Brian Russo from Ladenburg Thalmann.
Just in terms of back to the utility guidance and being at the high end can you talk about some of the drivers you referenced earlier and which one of those drivers would you consider sustainable into '16 and '17 versus what will collective be a positive in weather event July that’s obviously not repeatable under normal weather conditions? Sure Brian I'll let Bill to led this one off.
Sure.
And Brian I think I will start with what I'll call some below the line factors give you an update on that and then ask Tracy and Joe to talk about O&amp;M cost discipline in their respective businesses.
With respect to below the line we have significant opportunities to reduce our interest expense on a going forward basis and we recognize that on a going forward basis we'll have more debt.
But we do have both maturities in '16 and '17 as well as those maturities we've had in 2015.
So you'll see that come through.
The second item below the line with respect to tax I mentioned in the prepared remarks it will be 35% this year.
I think we'll be somewhere between 36% and 37.5% on a going forward basis in 2016 and 2017.
So those are the below line item that we would see as recurring at least looking those few years.
And with that I'll ask if Tracy or Joe want to add comments on O&amp;M discipline.
Sure.
Brian this is Joe.
I would just reiterate what I said in my remarks that obviously we had a down quarter and a down first half in gas ops.
But that was expected because of the extreme cold weather we had in 2014.
But we expect op income to continue growing again in second half of the year and that’s in large part due to the O&amp;M discipline that both Scott and Bill have mentioned as well as executing on our regulatory plan.
We have the settlement in our Texas coast case.
We filed our Minnesota case last week and we expect to file a case in Arkansas in the fourth quarter of this year.
So all things are looking very positive right now in the gas business.
Brian this is Tracy.
I would just add that our 2% year-over-year O&amp;M expense growth rate is a sustainable target for us and we're going to work very hard to maintain expenses in that range even though we're growing considerably here.
So everything is looking on the up and up for the electric business.
Next question comes from Faisal Khan from Citigroup.
Just a quick question on your ownership position in Enable.
Currently it doesn’t look like the general partnership gets [indiscernible] in the current stock price of CenterPoint.
I was wondering how would you think about that general partnership over time? I know the idea is to sort of grow those distributions over time but if it gives Enable sort of shot at the arm and reduces our cost of equity and makes them some more competitive in the market would you think about rolling the general partnership and IDR structure into the limited partner? It's too early to really have those considerations or discussions.
We are aways from beginning the IDRs.
I believe Enable mentioned there thought there may be some IDR payments as early as the end of next year which would be very small payments.
So you're out into '17 or '18 really before you would have the issue or the consideration of how those IDRs might affect our cost to capital and -- listen we certainly have an ongoing -- very strong ongoing interest in Enable's success and if appropriate we would contemplate the right things at the right time but it's just far too early to consider doing anything differently with the GP and the IDRs.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Charles Fishman from Morningstar Research.
I just had one question.
Bill you said that the lower tax rate -- effective tax rate was because of Texas I believe.
So I'm assuming that was at the utility not Enable.
could you maybe provide a little more color? That's correct.
That's the income tax rate here in Texas that we recognized a lowering of that and it went through the second quarter.
And then we also had some permanent differences change which moved to tax rate down to 32% for the quarter.
But for the year Charles it should be at 35%.
Okay.
And then would do you say the next year -- you've made some comments about that earlier Next year and on a forward looking basis if you are asking what are the provision should be for the accrual tax rate I think it will be in the range of 36% to 37.5% and if you wanted a point estimate it was 37%.
Okay.
So actually 37% is really pretty consistent with what you've said in the past correct? Yes that's right.
Next question is from Michael Dandurand from Goldman Sachs.
I think actually most of my questions have been answered already.
The only one I wanted to touch on was more housekeeping just with the cash taxes or on distributions from Enable has the outlook changed at all there given the update and guidance from Enable? Michael this is Bill.
First of all we look forward to bring at your conference in the next couple of days.
So thank you for including us.
Look forward to that.
We respect to taxes; we are certainly moving away from that more formulaic view to dividends.
What we're focused on is our target earnings growth of 4% to 6% through 2018.
The dividends will follow that.
If you wanted to ask a question about cash taxes we filled rather a consolidated return at CenterPoint.
There are some years where the utilities cash or tax characteristics might shield income from Enable and there are years where the tax characteristics at Enable might shield the utility.
So we don't really look through to any specific operations cash tax rate.
Understood.
I guess I'm just trying to get a feel for the incoming cash net of tax from Enable.
But maybe we can follow up offline a little bit on that.
Yes it's might help just to give you a sense of what we think our cash taxes would be.
On a consolidated basis we were not a tax payer in 2014 and our cash tax rate if we do not have bonus depreciation for 2015 will be in a low 30%.
If we have bonus depreciation in 2015 its unlikely that we'd be a cash tax payer on a consolidated basis.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
We will now conclude our second quarter 2015 earnings call.
And have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call with Senior Management.
During the Company's prepared remarks all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session after management's remarks.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to David Mordy Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Mordy? Thank you Ginger.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division; and Bill Rogers Executive Vice President and CFO will discuss our third quarter 2015 results and provide highlights on other key areas.
We also have with us other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
In conjunction with the call today we will be using slides which can be found under the Investor section on our website centerpointenergy.com.
For a reconciliation of the earnings guidance provided in today's call please refer to our earnings press release and our slides which along with our Form 10-Q has been posted on our website.
Please note that we may announce material information using SEC filings press releases public conference calls webcasts and post to the investor section of our website.
In the future we will continue to use these channels to communicate important information and encourage you to review the information on our website.
Today management is going to discuss certain topics that will contain projections and forward-looking information that are based on management's beliefs assumptions and information currently available to management.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks or uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially based upon factors including weather variations regulatory actions economic conditions growth commodity prices changes in our service territories and other risk factors noted in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss our guidance for 2015.
The guidance range considers utility operations performance to date and certain significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings volumes commodity prices ancillary services tax rates interest rates and financing activities.
In providing this guidance the Company does not include other potential impacts such as changes in accounting standards the value of ZENS securities and the related stocks or the timing effects of marked-to-market and inventory.
For Midstream Investments the Company takes into account such factors as Enable's most recent public forecast effective tax rate the amortization of our bases difference in Enable and other factors.
The Company does not include other potential impact such as any changes in accounting standards impairments or Enable midstream’s unusual items.
Before Scott begins I would like to mention that this call is being recorded.
Information on how to access that replay can be found on our website.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you David and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
Third quarter 2015 adjusted earnings on a guidance basis or $146 million or $0.34 per diluted share compared with $128 million or $0.30 in 2014.
On a guidance basis as noted on slide four utility operations contributed $0.24 per diluted share versus $0.19 in 2014.
Midstream Investments contributed $0.10 per diluted share compared to $0.11 in 2014.
On a GAAP basis we reported a loss of $391 million or a loss of $0.91 per diluted share.
The loss includes non-cash impairment charges to midstream investments.
Bill will discuss these results in more detail later in the call.
Our businesses performed well with particularly strong contribution from our utility operations.
Combined our gas and electric utilities added more than 88 000 meters since the third quarter of 2014.
As you will hear from Tracy and Joe we’ve had a busy year on the regulatory front and we are pleased with our progress.
We anticipate receiving approval this year for over $138 million in annualized utility rate relief including interim rates.
Additionally we continue to actively manage O&amp;M expenses which Tracy and Joe will also discuss later.
Turning to our Midstream Investment last week as you may have seen the Enable Board Of Directors named Rod Sailor as the new CEO effective January 1st of 2016.
Rod is a seasoned industry professional and I am confident that his knowledge of and experience in the midstream industry will be invaluable as Enable continues to execute its growth strategy.
Enable recently announced the third quarter distribution of $0.318 per unit representing a year-to-date increase of about 3%.
We are pleased to see their fifth consecutive quarterly increase since the IPO as they continued to navigate through this challenging commodity price environment.
Slide five includes highlights from Enable’s recent earnings call.
They continue to see volume growth around many parts of their system.
In the Anadarko 24 rigs are currently drilling wells scheduled to be connected to Enable’s system.
Enable’s Bear Den oil gathering system is now flowing close to its stated capacity.
Recent purchases of gas fields served by Enable in the Haynesville suggest the possibility for increased drilling in that region.
The year-to-date combined performance of our utility operations as well as midstream investments along with the anticipated fourth quarter performance allows us to update our earnings guidance for the full year to be $1.05 to $1.10 per share.
Further we are reaffirming our target earnings per share annualized growth rate of 4% to 6% through 2018.
As we’ve discussed in the past we are investing in infrastructure and technology to better serve our customers.
I’m proud to say that our efforts are being recognized.
In the most recent J.D.
Power 2015 Gas Utility Residential Customer Satisfaction Study our gas utilities rank in the first quartile in their respective regions.
The study measures billing and payment price corporate citizenship communications customer service and field service.
Before I close I want to take a moment to congratulate our legal team here at CenterPoint.
They were recently recognized by Texas lawyer as the 2015 legal department of the year in the area of pro bono and community leadership work.
The legal teams contributions are often on their personal time and illustrate our values as well as our commitment to serve to the areas that we serve.
We remain committed to our vision to lead the nation in delivering energy service and value.
We will continue to invest in our energy deliveries system to better serve our customers and to seek timely recovery of those investments.
Tracy will now update you on electric operations.
Thank you Scott.
Houston Electric had a strong quarter in line with our expectations.
As you can see on Slide 7 core operating income was $219 million this quarter compared to $202 million for the same period last year.
The business benefitted from higher usage primarily due to more favourable weather higher transmission and distribution related rate relief continued strong customer growth and lower operating expenses.
These benefits were partially offset by the absence of a one-time energy efficiency remand bonus received in the third quarter of 2014 and lower equity return related through our proceeds.
We continue to actively manage operating cost.
O&amp;M expenses were down 0.3% for the first three quarters of 2015 versus the first three quarters of 2014 excluding certain expenses that have revenue offsets.
We remain committed to ongoing O&amp;M expense discipline.
As you will see on slide 8 we are successfully executing our regulatory strategy to recover invested capital in a timely manner.
We have received approval for over $50 million in annualized transmission and distribution related rate relief so far this year.
Transmission related cost recovery filings approved by the commission in the first and third quarters this year resulted in $24 million and $14 million respectively in annual transmission revenues.
Also an annual revenue increase of $13 million from our first distribution cost recovery factor filing went into effect in September.
We are seeking an additional $17 million from our most recent transmission cost to service filing and expect to receive approval during the fourth quarter.
The Houston economy remains resilient and strong.
Houston Electric added more than 53 000 metered customers since the third quarter of last year.
This represents a continued annual growth rate of more than 2%.
As we mentioned before 2% customer growth equates to approximately $25 million to $30 million of incremental revenue annually.
On the employment front healthcare and hospitality are making up for job losses in the energy sector with the Greater Houston Partnership forecasting 20 000 to 30 000 net new jobs in 2015.
Houston’s housing market remains tight with inventory at 3.5 months supply compared to a more balanced inventory of six months.
Year-to-date through August home and auto sales have maintained the pace set during a strong 2014.
On slide 9 we have included a few statistics to further illustrate the size strength and diversity of the Houston economy which continues to perform well despite challenges associated with the energy sector.
We are pleased with Houston’s growth prospects.
Houston Electric performed well this quarter and we are positioned to finish the year strong.
We will continue to focus on safety reliability efficiency and growth.
Joe will now update you on the results for gas operations.
Thank you Tracy.
Our natural gas operations which includes both our gas utilities and our non-regulated energy services business had a strong quarter both operationally and financially.
I mentioned during the second quarter earnings call that we expected to improve our year-over-year operating income for the remainder of 2015.
I am pleased to tell you that improvement is occurring.
As you will see on Slide 11 natural gas utility’s third quarter operating income was $11 million compared to an operating loss of $8 million for the same period in 2014.
Operating income was higher due to several factors.
The business benefitted from increased rate relief customer growth other revenue and lower O&amp;M expenses.
These increases were partially offset by higher tax and depreciation expense.
Further the Minnesota Conservation Improvement Program incentive or CIP which historically has been received and recognized in the fourth quarter was approved in the third quarter this year.
Customer growth remained strong in our natural gas utilities having added over 35 000 customers since the third quarter of 2014.
Nearly 2% customer growth followed by Minnesota which added more than 1%.
O&amp;M expenses at our natural gas utilities were down 0.5% for the first three quarter of 2015 versus the first three quarters of last year excluding certain expenses that have revenue offsets and excluding the Minnesota CIP incentive.
As with our electric business we remain committed to ongoing O&amp;M expense discipline.
Turning to slides 12 through 14 we continue to execute on our multi jurisdiction of regulatory strategy.
Constructive annual rate mechanisms plus rate cases are allowing us to recover capital investments we've made to better serve our customer base.
The annualized rate relief approved so far this year is over $65 million which includes $48 million of interim rates in Minnesota.
We expect a final decision on Minnesota rates in mid 2016.
Another milestone in our rate strategy was the implementation of a new three-year folded coupling pilot in Minnesota which is intended to normalize the impact of usage fluctuations including weather.
As a result we will not employ a weather hedge in Minnesota for the 2015/2016 winter.
Finally next week we will file our first rate case in eight years in Arkansas.
This case will be used to ensure recovery of the substantial infrastructure investments we are making that are not eligible for inclusion in current annual recovery mechanisms.
As part of the filings we will also request approval of a formula rate plan as allowed by new legislation.
The formula rate plan will allow our rates to be prospectively adjusted based on a banded ROE approach in a projected test year.
We expect a final order of new base rates to be implemented in the third quarter of 2016.
On Slide 15 you'll see that operating income for our Energy Services business was $2 million for the third quarter of 2015 compared with an operating loss of $7 million for the same period of 2014 excluding mark-to-market gains of $5 million and $13 million respectively.
Sales volumes were down slightly but customer count grew nearly 1% year-over-year.
The increase in operating income was primarily related to commercial asset optimization in our Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent retail regions.
Additionally there was a favorable impact to operations and maintenance expenses relating to one-time expenses incurred in the third quarter of 2014.
Energy Services is a profitable business segment that complements our gas distribution business and allows us to provide gas purchase options to CenterPoint customers across multiple states.
We've worked hard to focus on the commercial retail business within Energy Services while reducing fixed costs associated with long-term supply and transportation commitments.
Energy Services had another good quarter and is on a path to achieve another year of strong financial performance.
Overall our natural gas operations performed well this quarter.
We will continue to operate effectively and efficiently as we focus on growth safety and the reliability of our system.
I will now turn the call over to Bill who will cover our financial activities.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
Tracy and Joe have reviewed their respective operating incomes on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
I will provide a review of our earnings per share on a guidance basis and review utility operations for third quarter 2015 versus the baseline for the third quarter 2014.
Before I do that let me comment on the impairment.
CenterPoint's third quarter 2015 earnings filing reflects a pretax impairment charges of $862 million related to our investment in Enable Midstream.
These impairments recognize the decline in the estimated fair value versus our balance sheet investment which was $19.12 per unit as of June 30 2015.
With these non-cash charges we have reduced our balance sheet investment in Enable Midstream from $4.5 billion to $3.6 billion.
More information is provided on Page 17 of the slide deck.
Importantly these impairments do not affect the Company's liquidity cash flow or compliance with debt covenants.
These impairments also do not change CenterPoint's earnings momentum or Enable's ability to participate in the development of North American energy infrastructure.
With that I would like to discuss our financial performance for the third quarter.
On a guidance basis our EPS was $0.34 in the third quarter of 2015 compared with $0.30 per share in 2014.
As a reminder our EPS on a guidance basis excludes the impacts of unusual items such as mark-to-market adjustments at our Energy Services business our ZENS securities and related reference shares and Midstream Investments impairment charges.
For utility operations we have provided two waterfall charts to help illustrate our normalized operational performance quarter-over-quarter.
In summary as is detailed on Slide 18 and in the appendix the adjustments lowered third quarter 2014 EPS $0.01 from $0.19 to $0.18.
These adjustments are consistent with the baseline adjustments we highlighted in our 2014 year end call.
A second chart on Slide 19 provides a quarter-to-quarter comparison for utility operations from third quarter 2014 baseline to third quarter 2015 on a guidance basis.
We are pleased with the $0.06 per share entries from $0.18 to $0.24 on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
As Tracy and Joe discussed their combined core operating income on a guidance basis improved $45 million to $232 million in the quarter.
With respect to our cost of capital and financing activity our interest expense was flat on a period-to-period basis.
Borrowings have increased approximately $100 million since year-end.
For the year we expect interest expense to be slightly lower compared to 2014 despite a projected increase of approximately $300 million in net borrowings.
On Slide 20 we provide more details on our financing plan.
Our last below the line item is the provision for income tax expense.
Excluding the impact of the impairment the tax rate for 2015 is expected to be 35%.
Further we expect a 36% rate in 2016.
The $0.24 contribution from utility operations and the $0.10 from our Midstream Investments resulted in a strong quarter-to-quarter performance of $0.34 versus $0.30 per share.
Given these results as Scott mentioned earlier we are revising our earnings guidance from our original range of $1.00 to $1.10 to the high end of the range of $1.05 to $1.10.
We reiterate targeting a 4% to 6% earnings growth per annum through 2018 and anticipate EPS contributions from utility operations and Midstream Investments of 70% to 75% and 25% to 30% respectively.
On our fourth-quarter call as in prior years we intend to provide EPS guidance for 2016 and an update on our utility's five-year capital investment plans.
Finally I would like to remind you of the $0.2475 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on October 21.
As we reviewed in great detail on our second quarter call we intend for dividend growth to be aligned with and to follow earnings growth.
With that I will now turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Bill.
We will now open the call to questions.
In the interest of time I will ask you to limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Ginger? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Neel Mitra from Tuder Pickering.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Neel.
I had a question regarding the dividend policy that you laid out in the last quarter.
Enable lowered their distribution guidance yesterday and I was curious as to how that would affect your dividend policy going forward.
Are you still targeting 4% to 6% or is it more consistent with just what the earnings are on the consolidated entity? Yes.
Neel we're still targeting – let me make two comments.
First is the dividends are going to follow our earnings growth.
And even with the change that Enable has made to their forecast we're still reiterating our projected our targeted earnings growth of 4% to 6% over the next three years and the dividend will follow that growth in earnings.
Okay great.
So it doesn't necessarily have to be 4% to 6% but you are reiterating 4% to 6% so the dividend should follow that.
Is that how I should interpret it? I think what we are saying is we are reiterating the 4% to 6% growth in earnings and that we're reconfirming the statement we made last quarter that dividends would follow the growth in earnings.
And of course as you know the dividend actual change in dividend is a subject that has to be addressed by the board.
Right.
Great.
And then second question could you just comment generally on the Houston economy? Obviously you've seen strong load growth year-to-date.
Do you think that's tailing off or it's going to continue through 2016? I don't know if there is any signs of weak oil prices weak energy prices impacting your load growth? Neel I think the economy is holding up very well.
As you've seen in our data we obviously track our meter additions.
They continue to be very strong.
Another kind of leading indicator we look at is something Tracy mentioned and that is the inventory of housing.
If the economy were slowing and impacting the rate of construction our residential construction you may tend to see an increase of inventory or a slowdown in the number of meters that we are connecting.
So far we haven't seen that.
So we continue to see a very robust economy overall.
And as Tracy mentioned several sectors are taking up for some of the downturn that we have seen in the energy space.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Please go ahead with your questions.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Ali.
Good morning.
And I apologize I jumped on late on the call.
But coming back first off to this point about dividend growth and earnings growth being both in the 4% to 6% range so mathematically just to understand that if Enable is talking about 3% growth in their distributions at least for the next two years are you implying that you're willing to increase the payout ratio at the utility [ph] because otherwise how do you maintain 4% to 6% if a lot of chunks of your cash coming in for dividend is only growing at 3%? Ali good morning it's Bill.
I'll answer that question.
Again as Scott said and we made in our comments so what we are stating is our targeting EPS growth at CenterPoint at 4% to 6% a year and that dividends would follow that.
So I think you're correct in asking the question what does it means if Enable's earnings and/or distributions slow.
What we are saying implicitly in that is we expect greater growth at the utilities to make up for the balance in order to achieve that 4% to 6%.
We continue and are modeling to say that the utility's actual payout in terms of the cash support to dividend is 60% to 70% of their earnings.
Okay.
And then secondly obviously Enable updated their outlook through 2017.
It's come down.
There is still a fair amount of uncertainty around 2017 as well.
They have a fully open position.
I just wanted to come back to an issue of what does it need for CenterPoint to see in terms of deciding for CenterPoint shareholders what needs to happen with regards to your exposure to the Enable story? The downside or the open position which I would also argue has upside in 2017 is incorporated to our thinking in the 4% to 6% per year EPS range.
Okay.
But more strategically Bill or Scott what are the sort of milestones you're going to be looking at to determine how this is working out for CenterPoint shareholders longer-term? Ali we continue to believe that the fundamentals are still very strong for Enable to participate in a growing build-out of infrastructure in this space.
And right now we are clearly in this low commodity price environment with uncertainty.
They are not contribute at the level that it was originally designed but we remain confident that as the market firms up that the improvement that we will see at Enable will represent upside to the 4% to 6% growth target that we have provided.
Okay.
Last question Scott.
In today's environment and particularly given the tougher exposure that you have with n the M&amp;P space what is your appetite in terms of potentially additional M&amp;A opportunities on the regulator space? Ali I think as we've shared in the past we have a strategy in place that does not require us to participate in M&amp;A.
We have great investment opportunities at our utilities organically where we are growing with returns that are near our allowed return.
Recent transactions in the space have suggested returns that are below that.
And any opportunity that one may consider would have to be weighed against the quality of the investments you have internally.
So we don't see a need to participate in M&amp;A.
We see it potentially as opportunistic but our focus is on growing and operating our utilities.
Thank you.
Our next question is from David Fishman from Goldman Sachs.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
Good morning.
This is kind of a continuation of that sorry.
I was hoping you could provide a little more color around I guess between the different segments how we get to the 4% to 6% so with the Texas T&amp;D the gas utilities and for the Midstream.
I think we touched a little bit about the Midstream already so pretty much how they all – how you look at each segment individually to get to the 4% to 6% range? Certainly David.
This is Bill.
We talked about Enable and their rate relative to the 4% to 6%.
Combined our electric and gas business we expect to be delivering greater than 4% to 6% and the next couple of years it really does depend upon which year in terms of which of those businesses will have earnings momentum.
But if you were to take a look at the regulatory filings which Joe and Tracy provided to you it would certainly suggest that on balance there would be more earnings per share momentum in the gas business in the very near term relative to the electric business and that that might shift as we begin to look at 2017 and beyond.
Okay.
So for the gas utilities we should expect it to be a little faster in the near term relative to the electric there? In the 16-year again I encourage you to take a look at the regulatory detail we provide in the slide deck.
Okay.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you everyone for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
We will now conclude our third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good morning and welcome to CenterPoint Energy's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call with senior management.
During the company's prepared remarks all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
There will be a question-and-answer session after managements' remarks.
[Operator Instructions] I will now turn the call over to David Mordy Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Mordy? Thank you Ginger.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for joining us today.
Scott Prochazka President and CEO; Tracy Bridge Executive Vice President and President of our Electric Division; Joe McGoldrick Executive Vice President and President of our Gas Division; and Bill Rogers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will discuss our fourth quarter 2015 results and provide highlights on other key areas.
We also have with us other members of management who may assist in answering questions following the prepared remarks.
In conjunction with the call today we will be using slides which can be found under the Investors section on our website centerpointenergy.com.
For a reconciliation of the earnings guidance provided in today's call please refer to our earnings press release and our slides which along with our Form 10-K have been posted on our website.
Please note that we may announce material information using SEC filings press releases public conference calls webcasts and post to the Investors section of our website.
In the future we will continue to use these channels to communicate important information and we encourage you to review the information on our website.
Today management is going to discuss certain topics that will contain projections and forward-looking information based on management's beliefs assumptions and information currently available to management.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks or uncertainties.
Actual results could differ materially based upon factors including weather variations regulatory actions economic conditions and growth commodity prices changes in our service territories and other risk factors noted in our SEC filings.
We will also discuss our guidance for 2016.
The utility operations guidance range considers performance to-date and certain significant variables that may impact earnings such as weather regulatory and judicial proceedings volumes commodity prices ancillary services tax rates interest rates and financing activities.
In providing this guidance the company does not include other potential impacts such as changes in accounting standards the value of ZENS securities and the related stocks or the timing effects of mark-to-market and the inventory.
In providing midstream investments guidance related to the company's 55.4% limited partner ownership interest in Enable the company takes into account such factors as the Enable's most recent public forecast effective tax rate the amortization of our basis difference in Enable and other factors.
The company does not include other potential impacts such as changes in accounting standards impairments or Enable Midstream's unusual items.
Before Scott begins I would like to mention that this call is being recorded.
Information on how to access the replay can be found on our website.
And with that I will now turn the call over to Scott.
Thank you David and good morning ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for joining us today and thank you for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
2015 was a strong year for CenterPoint our Utility operations performed well helping us to achieve our earnings objective on a guidance bassist by earning at the top end of our guidance range.
Enable made a strong contribution to our earnings as well.
Following in the middle of the guidance range we had provided at the start of 2015.
Using the same basis that we use when providing guidance full year adjusted earnings were $475 million or $1.10 per diluted share.
During 2015 we were focused on creating shareholder value through sustainable earnings growth.
Our intention remains to grow annual EPS 4% to 6% through 2018.
Given the reduction and Enable's unit price throughout the year we recorded non-cash impairment charges in both the third and fourth quarters of 2015.
As a result this morning we reported a loss of $692 million or a loss of $1.61 per diluted share for 2015 compared with net income of $611 million or $1.42 per diluted share in 2014.
Bill will discuss more about the impairments later in the call.
Slide four highlights several of the components that drove our 2015 performance.
We continue to see strong customer growth in both our electric and gas utilities.
Combined our utilities added nearly 80 000 new customers in 2015.
Our collective rate base grew 10%.
We obtain $90 million in annualized rate relief excluding $48 million of interim rate relief in Minnesota that will be decided upon in 2016.
Further we continue to focus attention on O&amp;M and financing cost.
The collective impact of these components led to 2015 utility operations earnings of $0.79 per diluted share compared with base line 2014 utility earnings of $0.70 per share an increase of nearly 13%.
Each year we conduct an annual assessment and prioritization of capital needs driven by requirements around safety growth maintenance and reliability.
As you will see in Tracy's and Joe's slides our planned capital expenditures for the upcoming years while remaining well above historic levels will be down from the peak expenditure level of 2015.
Associated with this reduction we anticipate our utility rate base growth will more closely track utility earnings growth allowing us to maintain our 4% to 6% earnings growth target for CenterPoint Energy as a whole.
Our plan assumes we maintain ROEs at or near our allowed returns.
On slide five you can see EPS on a guidance basis for last year as well as our target for 2016.
The percentage of earnings from our utilities is expected to increase from about 65% in 2014 to 75% to 80% in 2016.
Also the utilities provided over 80% of the cash flow in 2015.
As our utilities continue to grow they provide a larger [indiscernible] that can help mitigate additional commodity driven earnings challenges that may impact Enable.
Our 2016 EPS guidance of $1.12 to $1.20 represents solid growth following a very strong performance in 2015.
We anticipate this growth will be built upon many of the same factors that drove us forward in 2015 growing service territories management of capital and timely recovery on of our investments.
These factors will continue to be aided by ongoing attention to financing and operating cost.
Turning the midstream investments we believe continued focus on Enable's financial performance and balance sheet strength translates into value for CenterPoint Energy shareholders.
Despite the commodity environment Enable remains financially sound with solid fundamentals and encouraging operating statistics.
I have noted some of the key takeaways from Enable's call last week on slide six.
Producers remain active within Enable's footprint currently there are 28 rigs drilling wells to connect to Enable System in Anadarko basin.
Enable's processing and transportation volumes are up over 2014 and their Bear Den system in the Bakken has increased volumes by 6 500 barrels per day in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2015.
From a financing perspective Enable will have no debt maturities due this year or in 2017.
And as of year-end 2015 reported $1.2 billion available under their credit facility.
CenterPoint's core strategy remains to operate maintain and invest in our current utility service territories deploying capital to address needs for system growth maintenance reliability safety and customer interactions.
Beyond our core strategy we continue to look for additional opportunities to grow earnings.
On slide - as shown on slide seven we recently announced two transactions that demonstrate our commitment pursuing sustainable earnings growth.
First we announced that we would be using funds paid to us by Enable for outstanding debt to invest in a preferred security at Enable.
This is an accretive investment for CenterPoint shareholders with a return of 10%.
Additionally we announced an earnings accretive acquisition of Continuum's retail energy business which expands our profitable low-risk energy services business.
As for our announcement about strategic reviews over the past 12 months to 18 months we've been asked by many investors about two topics.
Enable's fit within our portfolio and separately whether we would consider forming a REIT for utility assets.
In response we have announced we will independently study each for sustainable value creation.
I want to stress that we are in the evaluation stage.
Long-term shareholder value creation and long-term business model sustainability our top priorities in our evaluation process.
We will not pursue actions that provide only short-term financial benefits or that will negatively impact our ability to serve our customers and address the growing needs of our vibrate service territories.
We do not plan to answer questions as premature discussions could prove confusing and distracting to the process.
We plan to share as we reach conclusions and while we have no definitive timeline we anticipate providing an update during the second half of 2016.
Turning to slide eight I will conclude my comments by acknowledging the commitment and accomplishments of our employees.
Their dedication to our vision of leadership could be seen through the awards we have we received.
For example J.D.
power and Associates which measures customer satisfaction rank each of our gas distribution companies in the top four in the respective regions.
We ranked first in operational satisfaction in natural gas operations and we're named an Environmental Champion by Cogent energy reports in the Midwest.
Cogent also identified our electric utility as ranking number one in Texas for customer engagement.
Effective customer service strengthens our relationships with the customers and reinforces with regulators our commitment to provide reliable utility service to the communities we serve.
In closing let me reiterate that we remain committed to our vision to lead the nation in delivering energy service and value.
We will continue to invest in our energy delivery systems to better serve our customers and to seek timely recovery of those investments.
Tracy will now update you on electric operations.
Thank you Scott.
2015 was another strong year for Houston Electric.
Slide 10 core operating income was $502 million in 2015 compared to $477 million in 2014 representing a 5% increase.
The business benefited from higher transmission and distribution related revenues customer growth and increased usage due to our return to more normal weather.
These benefits were partially offset by lower equity return related to true-up proceeds.
Lower energy efficiency bonus including the absence of a one-time energy efficiency bonus received in 2014 higher depreciation and lower right of way revenues.
Turning to slide 11 Houston Electric added nearly 50 000 metered customers last year which equates to 2% year-over-year growth.
The Houston area added 27 000 net new jobs last year and the Greater Houston Partnership is projecting approximately 22 000 net new jobs this year mostly from healthcare and construction industries.
We anticipate approximately 2% metered customer growth in 2016.
Recent monthly metered addition support that plan growth rate.
We continue to meet O&amp;M expense management goals.
Houston Electric held O&amp;M expenses flat last year compared to 2014 excluding certain expenses that have revenue offsets.
We will continue our efforts in 2016 as we work to keep annual O&amp;M expense growth under 2%.
Last year Houston Electric received approval for approximately $67 million in annualized transmission and distribution related rate relief.
About 90% of our capital investment is eligible for recovery using our annual cost recovery mechanisms.
Transmission cost of service or TCOS and distribution cost recovery factor or DCRF.
We expect to file DCRF in April and the TCOS in the second half of this year.
We do not anticipate Houston Electric general rate filing in 2016 2017 or 2018.
Turning to slide 12 Houston Electric invested $934 million of capital in 2015 which represents a 14% increase over 2014 primarily due to load growth investments.
Our new five-year plan includes $3.7 billion of capital expenditures.
This investment will be used to improve service reliability and system resiliency and support load growth and ongoing system maintenance.
By the way work has begun on the largest project in our capital plan the Brazos Valley Connection.
Last month the Public Utility Commission of Texas approved a certificate of convenience and necessity for Houston Electric to construct this project.
We anticipate total capital spend of $270 million to $310 million and completion by mid-2018.
As you all see on slide 13 rate base is projected to grow at a 5.2% compound annual growth rate through the five year plan.
I'm very pleased with Houston Electric's performance in 2015 and our forecast for 2016.
I'll now turn the call over to Joe McGoldrick for an update on natural gas operations.
Thank you Tracy.
Natural gas operations which includes both our natural gas utilities and our non-regulated energy services business had another strong year.
Natural gas utilities operating income in 2015 was $273 million compared to $287 million in 2014.
As you'll see on slide 15 $25 million of the decline in operating income is primarily due to return to more normal weather in 2015 when compared to the extreme weather in the first half of 2014.
Rate release customer growth and other revenues added to operating income but we're partially offset by an increase and depreciation and other taxes.
Customer growth remains strong at our utilities having added nearly 30 000 customers since the fourth quarter of 2014 a 1% increase.
The strongest growth occurred in Minnesota and Texas and we expect similar customer growth of approximately 1% in the foreseeable future.
We managed operating cost effectively in 2015 O&amp;M expenses were flat versus 2014 excluding certain expenses that have revenue offsets We remain committed to disciplined O&amp;M expense management.
We continue to invest in infrastructure and technology.
For example our natural gas utilities completed the deployment of drive-by meter reading technology to 3.4 million meters and we continue with our pipeline replacement projects such as cast iron and bare steel in Arkansas and our Minnesota Belt Line project.
These investments are improving the safety reliability and efficiency of our gas distribution system.
We are also executing on our multi-jurisdictional regulatory strategy.
Filing base rate increase request in Minnesota and Arkansas as well as annual GRIP filings and other annual mechanisms.
In 2015 approximately 90% of our capital spend was eligible for recovery through a combination of annual mechanisms and forward test years.
The general rate case that was filed last year in Minnesota requesting a $54.1 million annual increase is on track and we expect to file an order in third quarter of 2016.
Interim rates of $47.8 million went into effect in October of last year.
Additionally we filed a general rate case in Arkansas in November 2015.
This is the first general rate filing we have made there since 2007 requesting $35.6 million in annualized rate recovery.
As part of the filing we requested approval of a formula rate plan is allowed by new legislation.
The formula rate plan will allow our rates to be prospectively adjusted based on a banded ROE approach and a projected test year.
We expect the final decision in new base rates to be implemented in the third quarter of 2016.
Turning to slide 16 we invested $601 million in our natural gas utilities last year which represents a 14% increase over 2014.
The increase was a combination of growth activity and public improvement projects primarily in Minnesota and Texas in addition to system maintenance activities across all jurisdictions.
Our revised five year capital plan includes $2.3 billion.
We are prioritizing capital investments with a focus on safety reliability and growth.
With our automated meter reading capital project now complete and public improvement expenditures expected to decline our 2016 capital will return to a more normal level.
As you can see on slide 17 rate base is projected to grow at 6.2% compound annual growth rate through the five year plan.
Anticipate that capital prioritization and effective implementation of our regulatory strategy will result in convergence of rate based growth and operating income growth over the next five years.
On slide 18 you'll see the 2015 operating income for our energy services business was $38 million compared to $23 million in 2014 excluding mark-to-market gains of $4 million and $29 million respectively.
Our energy services business realized solid customer growth and has increased operating income substantially over the last two years.
The business also benefited from improved margins a reduction in O&amp;M expense and a lower inventory adjustment in 2015.
Energy services is a profitable business segment that complements our gas distribution business and allows us to provide gas purchase options to CenterPoint customers across multiple states.
We have worked hard to grow the commercial retail business within energy services including by entering into an agreement to acquire continuing retail energy services business subject to customary closing conditions.
With similar business models and commitment to customer service this transaction position energy services to have access to more markets and officially grow our customer base by over 30% across 26 states.
Moreover our businesses share a common footprint and we expect to capture synergies and reduce G&amp;A over time as we leverage economies of scale.
Transactions expected to increase annual gross margin by approximately 40%.
With the addition of Continuum we expect energy services to contribute $40 million to $50 million of annual operating income.
Details for the transaction are provided on slide 19.
Our natural gas operations achieved strong operational and financial results in 2015.
We are confident that our businesses will continue to grow in 2016 and beyond as we continue to enhance service to our customers and communities and create long-term value for our stakeholders.
I'll now turn the call over to Bill who will cover financial activities.
Thank you Joe and good morning to everyone.
I will begin by summarizing comments from Scott Tracy and Joe to review the contributors to our utility operations performance from our base line of $0.70 per share in 2014 to 79% per share delivered in 2015.
The primary contributors to this EPS growth were a $0.06 year-on-year improvement in Houston Electric and $0.05 year-on-year improvement at energy services.
These improvements were offset in part by higher income taxes.
As noted by Tracy and Joe holding O&amp;M flat contributed to the year-on-year EPS performance at our utility operations.
As we have shared with you in the past several quarters we are working on delivering consistent 4% to 6% annual EPS growth.
On slide 21 you'll see a few points regarding our guidance our 4% to 6% growth target begins with the 2015 EPS on a guidance basis of a $1.10 per share.
The $0.02 net accretion from our investment in Enable preferred plus a net $0.04 from our combined utility operations and midstream investment brings us to the mid-point of our 2016 EPS guidance.
The EPS from the utility operations is expected to increase whereas the EPS from our midstream investment is expected to decline.
As Scott noted in his comments strong performance from utility operations which is 80% of our EPS guidance is expected to offset the anticipated decline in the EPS at midstream investments.
I'll also provide some detail on the components of our EPS guidance.
For utility operations the midpoint of 2016's $0.88 to $0.92 EPS forecast relative to $.79 in 2015 consists of $0.05 from operating income $0.02 from lower interest expense and $0.04 from the dividend income associated with our recent preferred investment in Enable.
For our midstream investments Enable provided their earnings forecast on the February 17 earnings call.
This earnings forecast translated into $0.19 to $0.25 EPS for CenterPoint after accruing for income taxes.
That forecast range plus the accounting income of accretion translates into our guidance of $0.24 to $0.28 for the midstream contribution to our combined 2016 EPS estimate.
There are certain factors which drive variation within the guidance range which we have included in our disclosure and on page 21.
Lower commodity prices are primary example of this.
If oil prices declined to $20 per barrel we anticipate EPS from Midstream investments would be at the low end of the $0.24 to $0.28 range.
Similarly continued favorable interest rates versus the year-end forward curves or exceeding our goals for Continuum integration and customer retention to move our utility operations EPS to the high end of their range.
As with 2015 we are confident in our ability to deliver within our guidance range under a variety of circumstances.
Turning to slide 22.
CenterPoint's fourth quarter 2015 earnings reflects a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge of $984 million all related to our investment and Enable Midstream.
This impairment recognizes the decline in the estimated fair value of our balance sheet investment which was $15.41 per unit as of September 30th 2015.
Within Enable unit price of just over $9 at year-end it was appropriate for us to again review the investment for impairment.
With these non-cash charges we have reduced our balance sheet investment in Enable Midstream from $3.6 billion to $2.6 billion.
The new per unit value of a $11.09 as of year-end is calculated using multiple methods and includes the value of our limited partner common and subordinated units and our general partner and incentive distribution rights.
Importantly these impairments do not affect the company's liquidity cash flow or compliance with debt covenants.
After the impairment the equity percentage and the capital structure is 36% at CenterPoint and at the CERC level the impairment along with a recent $363 million dividend from CERC to the holding company provides a pro forma equity capital of 55% at CERC.
On slide 23 we provide a forecast of our financing plans.
Importantly we do not anticipate issuing equity in 2016.
Part of the reason for this is the strength of our cash flow in 2015 and our expectations for similarly strong cash flow from operations in 2016.
To illustrate this in 2015 CenterPoint made a record capital investments of nearly $1.6 billion.
Our cash flow covered all capital expenditures in 2015.
As a result our net increase in borrowings were only $330 million.
We anticipate continued strong cash flow in upcoming years with forecast of net debt of only $150 million by year end 2016.
With this limited net increase in debt our cash flow coverages and our balance sheet are protected to further improve relative to 2015.
During 2015 we work to provide for a more flexible debt structure.
This resulted in similar interest expense in 2015 relative to 2014 despite increased borrowings and as I mentioned in previous comments we anticipate continuing to lower interest expense in 2016.
With respect to income tax provisions slide 24 also notes our 2015 effective tax rates as well as the anticipated 36% effective tax rate for 2016.
I'll close by reminding you of the $0.2575 per share quarterly dividend declared by our Board of Directors on January 20.
This represents a 4% increase over the previous quarterly dividend and marks the 11th consecutive year we have increased our dividend.
With that I will now turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Bill.
We will now open the call to questions.
In the interest of time I will ask you to limit yourself to one question and a follow-up.
Ginger? At this time we will begin taking questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from Jeremy Tonet from JPMorgan.
Good morning.
Good morning Jeremy.
Congratulations on the strong quarter.
Just had a couple of questions and I apologize in advance if I'm crossing the line here as far as the discussion that you want to have with strategic review.
But I was just curious if you could tell us whether the reconsideration is adjust with the electric assets or is the gas assets part of that process? And is there anything that you could share with us as far as what steps or factors are being considered in this process and how - any factors that you can share with us in the evaluation of the restructure? Yeah Jeremy I hate to disappoint you but given that we're really at the front end of this evaluation we're not really prepared to make comments on the strategic reviews at this time but our plan remains to update everybody once we have something to share or a little bit later in the year.
Okay great.
I appreciate that.
That's it from me.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Neel Mitra from Tudor Pickering.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Neel.
I was curious the $3.7 billion capital spending plan at Houston Electric how much of that is contingent upon the 2% customer growth that so for you've been seeing if that customer growth does come down is the capital plan affected meaningfully? Neel I'll make a quick comment then I'll ask Tracy to expand on it.
The short answer to your question is it's not linked very heavily to the customer addition number that we've talked about and that has to do with the various categories in which we are investing for growth and it goes well beyond just the addition of new meters for the residential sector.
Tracy if you'd like to add to that? I really don't have much to add to that Neel.
You know that we have to plan into the future for this for this grid and while we're fairly confident that we're going to continue to see strong customer growth these capital numbers as Scott said are not directly linked to that.
Neel for example we're investing a lot in transmission level of the infrastructure substations that type of thing and those are not that type of growth is not linked to a residential customer addition.
Got it.
And then in regards to the strategic review just a very general question.
Is there a reasoning or thought process behind I'm setting an expectation for the specifically the second half of the year for an update can you maybe provide any color on that? We don't have a specific timeline but we think that there is a reasonable window in which we would expect to get back to folks with some information or conclusions from the work they were doing.
So we feel that towards the end of the year we've got a high degree of confidence will be at least able to update if not to provide conclusions.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ali Agha from SunTrust.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
First question.
Big picture Scott just to understand what you guys are looking at the strategic review are these mutually exclusive events thinking about exit from Enable and REIT.
Are they somehow linked? And also again big picture consistently you've been telling us that the Enable exit is very complicated by the fact but there's a huge tax liability that would suddenly come due.
Has that issue been resolved or is that still part of this review? So Ali going to your first question.
These are independent analysis first of all so to answer that.
And then secondly with respect to the question about the tax issue the tax issue is still very much there and part of our consideration.
Doug I don't know if you want anything to that.
Ali one way.
I thank for you to think about the tax issue is to take a look at our deferred tax footnote in our 2015 Form 10-K where you'll see an accrual estimate of the deferred tax liability of $1.2 billion.
That's derived from our accrual balance sheet estimated value of Enable of $11.6 which we just describe relative to the basis in Enable.
Okay.
So maybe that's more information you wanted but that's one way you can think through what that might be if we were sell the units for cash.
Right.
That's helpful.
My second question again to the 4% to 6% EPS growth guidance since you originally articulated that the Enable outlook has gotten worse and I think your rate base growth numbers have come down as well from previous numbers so what has incrementally gotten better that you are still in that same guidance with the lower rate base growth number and a worse outlook for Enable? Bill I'll ask you to answer this.
Certainly.
So I reviewed some of this in the prepared remarks earlier where we went from $0.79 to the mid-point of our $0.88 to $0.92 for the utility operations.
The three components of that which I addressed were $0.05 better operating income lower interest expense of $0.02 and $0.04 from the preferred.
The operating income is achieved through increase in revenues associated with various rate filings as well as the O&amp;M discipline which both Tracy and Joe mentioned but we're expecting a strong year out of both utilities.
Tracy or Joe.
I think that's right Bill.
We've had good track record in our gas utilities and of course with the addition or the better performance at CES over the last couple of years and the hopefully closing on the Continuum acquisition we continue to see growth in operating income and our gas business that is very close to the rate base growth.
[indiscernible] admit it suffice to saying one more time this strength and the 80% of our business covers off the challenges and the 20% of our Enable Midstream portion of our business.
And Ali I'll add one other comment just remind you back when we were first talking about this growth rate we had indicated that we had done our own evaluation in terms of stress testing Enable's performance in our ability to hit that 4% to 6% growth rate under a number of conditions.
Great.
Scott but just to be clear I mean your rate base growth numbers have come down.
I was looking more in the five-year outlook not just 2016 outlook.
So what has changed in your thinking that with a lower rate base growth the release will actually grow at a faster pace than previously thought.
I think Ali if you take a look at it the rate base growth and the operating income and EPS growth are all converging together within that 4% to 6% range.
So there are variety of factors.
One is thinking hard about the capital we invest after coming off of a record year and Joe and Tracy described why it was record year.
The regulatory lag and the fact that in this current plan over five years we see a very modest amount of equity as part of our capital formation.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steve Fleishman from Wolfe Research.
Hey good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Couple of questions.
So first just a clarification Bill on the comments from the 10-K and Enable deferred tax of $1.2 billion.
Yes.
Part in this but just is that basically your negative tax basis in Enable? Is that equivalent to that or is that basic - yeah.
Right.
So I'll answer that Steve.
So that number is derived from the accrual value that we have on our books less our basis which you're right to suggest that it's negative and then multiplying by 35%.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just on the Texas economy and the impact of the energy collapse and all of that stuff obviously didn't seem to fluctuate at all in 2015 and so far things still seem to be growing can you just maybe give a little bit more color overall on just kind of whatever data points or color on how the economies likely to hold up given what you're seeing? Steve I'll give you one piece of color.
It took me about an hour and 20 minutes to get into work this morning because of all the traffic which is a one sign that the economy is still robust but I'll ask Tracy to make some comments about what we look at it in terms of our views on how the economy is performing.
Good morning Steve.
Good morning.
As I mentioned in my comments Greater Houston partnership is projecting some 22 000 net new jobs this year it's obviously not in the energy industry but we realize and benefit from a more diversified economy than what we had 30 years or 35 years ago the healthcare construction industries if you see the Houston Skyline you still see cranes all around the downtown area.
So we still look at 2% growth this year.
One of the notable metrics that I look at is what are we doing with customers on a month over month basis and then for January we saw healthy residential customer growth and that's a sign that that the economy while it may be slowing down a little bit.
It's not appearing to slow down very much.
So the jury is still out.
We still have a 10.5 months to go but so far so good in terms of what we're seeing with customer growth.
Steve you've heard me comment and I think Tracy has commented as well in the past about the number of crews that we have out putting infrastructure into subdivisions ahead of the builders coming and in building homes.
We track those crews and that activity.
This - right now we have more crews working now than we did a year ago.
And the - we also track housing inventory in the area to see if there is a rise in the housing inventory and that number has stayed very very healthy at being a low number.
It's about three-and-half months of inventory against what many consider to be a more balanced market of about six months and that number is really not changing that much either.
So we're still seeing a lot of indicators that suggest the housing sector is still very strong and that we're not building up inventories of homes that are sitting around.
Okay.
Great.
And then just I guess lastly just the - is the dividend strategy the same that kind of tie into dividend growth to earnings growth through 2018? Yes.
It is.
Our messaging around this is that we're going to have dividends follow earnings and our earnings growth target is as we've shared with you 4% to 6% over this period.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Our next question comes from Faisal Khan from Citigroup.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just want to make sure I understood sort of the - sort of modest amount of equity needs with the growth in rate base.
So it sounds like that could all be sort of taking care of the [indiscernible] program but does that also sort of - does it require the distributions from Enable or is this sort of independent of the Enable distributions? Faisal its Bill.
So I said modest over the five year horizon.
If you wanted to take today's equity market cap of CenterPoint and sort of derive what modest might mean it would be low single-digits as a percentage of today's equity market cap over five years so not in each of five years over five.
To look at it in another way if we were to use our group program and other ongoing programs in any given year if that were maxed out that might be $200 million of equity we didn't use it last year or prior year nor are we looking at it this year.
With respect to how we think about distributions to Enable's and how that fits in as Scott mentioned in his opening comments Enable's contribution to our cash flow was less than 20%.
So it's important to us but it's not a driver in terms of our thinking about capital formation.
Certainly if there were a reduction in that cash flow we'd have to take a hard look at our credit metrics and see if it would be appropriate issue a little bit more equity.
Okay.
That's very clear.
Thank you guys.
I appreciate the time.
Our next question comes from John Edwards from Credit Suisse.
Yeah good morning everybody.
My parking garage in Downtown Houston has more spaces than it did before.
So anecdotally there's - looks like some impact is -to your comment earlier but thank you for your commenting on the - on the customer growth environment.
So my question then would be just on energy services business I'm just curious how you envision the Continuum acquisition? How you envision leveraging that maybe if you could give us a little color on the kind of the longer term growth outlook and plans for that? Joe do you want to take this? Sure.
Yeah.
John we plan on integrating that business fairly quickly after we close and as we've pointed out it adds about 30% to our C&amp;I customer base.
Their business is in very similar service territories to what we have currently.
So we plan to take advantage of the scale and the reset we would have by adding those customers and continue to really deliver on what we've been delivering on we feel over the last few years in that business.
And so that we - for example we retain on average 92% of our customers over the last three years and with the addition of Continuum's customers we can offer better products and services perhaps more competitive pricing to our customers and just continue with the success that we've enjoyed over the last few years.
So we're excited about this opportunity and think that the performance of the business over the last couple years demonstrates our ability to continue to grow that business as a complement to our gas utility.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Could you just comment on perhaps the kinds of additional products and services that you'd be contemplating? Well we have - we're going to get - once we get the business integrated we're going to look at some of the things that they've been doing compared to some of the things that we've been doing and just take the best of both in terms of giving additional services and pricing products to our customers.
So for example in this low price environment we're starting to see a lot of customers interested in locking these prices given the low levels and so with the bigger size of the business and some of the things that both companies have been doing.
We will take advantage of that and stabilize those margins over an extended period of time.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
That's it from me.
Our next question comes from Michael Lapides from Goldman Sachs.
Hey guys.
Thank you for taking my question.
Good morning Michael.
Just I'm thinking about the utility in the parent EPS growth for 2016 from 2015 and then longer term because the growth from 2015 to 2016 going from $0.79 to almost $0.90.
If I use your 4% to 6% EPS growth longer term that implies a much lower growth rate after 2016.
I'm just kind of doing back of the envelope math.
Am I missing something here or is that or is that fundamentally the way we should be thinking about this? Right because 2015 to 2016 is almost 10% growth so I'm just trying to think about what the growth rate is beyond that.
Right.
So Michael its Bill.
I'll start with that Scott and I have additional comments.
We - first the income from the preferred investment that should continue on.
The savings from lower interest expense that should continue on and in fact there are more opportunities in 2017 and 2018 to take a look at interest expense management.
And finally and most importantly I think you'll see an acceleration of the or could see an acceleration of the year-on-year operating income delivered by electric and gas.
As they execute on the strategies which Joe and Tracy has mentioned and as the rate base comes into our revenue requirement.
But why wouldn't that lead to a higher growth rate if you're doing 10% in the first year because you're capturing the benefit of a lot of head stuff the financing - the initial financing savings the Enable preferred you're capturing that in a10% growth this year.
I'm just curious why it wouldn't if there are other incremental things that are going to happen in 2017 and beyond and you are doing 10% in the first year why your long-term growth rate would have been a higher number? Michael I think one way you can think of this is the items that have - that we've executed like the preferred for example that just provides the step change that continues going forward.
But the base business we're still committing to a 4% to 6% growth.
So if you've had some things and here that provide a step change like a Continuum or like a - like the preferred than we would intend to grow off half of that higher base is established by those - those new levels of earnings for those new earnings amount.
Got it.
One another thing just on cash flow when I think about the CenterPoint dividend how much of that dividend comes from cash that is being up streamed by either the Houston Electric T&amp;D business or the gas distribution or energy services business and how much of that dividend is either coming from the Enable contributions or from things like parent debt or other items? Right.
Michael that would vary from year-to-year beginning with recognition that the cash distributions from Enable come into CERC which owns the LDCs as well as our CES CIP business and Enable.
So when we take a look at CERC's balance sheet and determine what's the appropriate strength of that balance sheet and through its earnings cash flow determine how much we would dividend out of CERC on any given year.
We could - as I said after the impairment and then pro forma for the dividend distribution associated with Enable's paying down debt to CERC their balance sheet is at 55%.
So we'll start with that balance sheet.
On the Houston Electric side again it depends upon their sources and uses of cash as well as their earnings for the year but we target to maintain a 45% equity of the capital and then dividend funds after that.
Now going to the dividend which clearly stayed as the holding company the sort the whether it's borrowings from holding company or whether it's fully sourced from CERC and Houston Electric will depend on how much dividend they make and the borrowings of the holding company make after that.
Got it.
Yeah.
I just - I asked that question only because if I look at what happened in the MLP world over the last six months to nine months.
The dividend yields of certain stocks sometimes send the signal in the market implying a potential dividend cut of the MLP.
And what I'm just trying to think about and I look at this across all the utilities we covered that own MLPs right now.
Is though the risk that if there is a distribution cut at the MLP level what that means for the utility holding company's dividend level? Well Scott mentioned this and I included it as response to an earlier question remember that Enable is less than 20% of the cash flow of CenterPoint.
Our utilities are strong and increasing their cash distributions.
Second point I put at is that I mentioned really very little in the way of net incremental debt in 2016 and that's associated again with a strong cash flow of our utilities.
So while if you're suggesting there is going to a change in the distribution from Enable if that were to happen I don't think it has a meaningful impact on us in the near-term given the relative amount of that cash flow and the strength of our balance sheet.
Got it Bill.
Thank you.
I appreciate your taking the time and going to that level of detail [indiscernible] and a follow-up afterwards.
Our next question comes from Andrew Weisel from Macquarie.
Hey good morning.
Good morning Andrew.
Just have a look on that last line of questioning.
If you were to divest or spin-off your stake of Enable how would you think about the dividend under that scenario? If something like that were to happen I think you'd have to rethink the whole picture.
But again it's too early to really provide any thoughts or any commentary on what that would look like other than to say you would have to reconsider it in a more broad based.
Okay.
Well let me ask it this way then could the CenterPoint Energy without Enable support the current dividend and maybe would you consider taking on additional debt or use potential cash proceeds to sustain the current dividend? Andrew I think there are lot of theoreticals there.
So without Enable contemplates we've done something with our Enable ownership but doesn't yet contemplate what the use of proceeds from that might be.
So I guess it's essentially what I'm asking.
And as Scott has said we will be back to you as we conclude these reviews in the second half of this year.
Okay.
Understood.
My other question is it looks like the 2016 through 2019 CapEx plan has come down quite a bit from what you guided to a year ago that in addition to the bonus depreciation.
That's obviously what's driving the lower rate base numbers but on the CapEx itself.
Can you give us some commentary as why the forecast has come down [indiscernible].
I will give you some commentary.
I'll ask these other gentlemen here if they would like to add into that.
Each year we sit down and go through an exercise to assess how much capital is needed in the out years and 2015 was a very high year.
Some of the spend that was perhaps looked at for outer years had been pulled forward.
And we've had reductions in other areas of public improvement that type of thing and then Joe mentioned earlier we have completed some projects that are no longer going to continue into the future years.
So it's really driven by the needs of the system and I will say that as you look further out there's less clarity about what that specific value looks like as you get out towards the end of the plan.
And as we update the needs on an annual basis you could see that number out there fluctuating based on needs for the system.
Joe Tracy do you want to add any color to that? Andrew I will point you to pages 27 and 32 in the appendix.
I think those are the best graphical representations the answer to your question and to make a more complicated story shorter and more digestible two categories stand out.
They are the categories in the red and the categories in the blue.
They are the public and system improvements and load growth and both of those represent the majority of the change in the capital structure.
And I would just point out that it's not that all the rest of the years are anomalous it's that 2015 was unusually high the way I see it.
So I think that's the best answer to the question.
But Joe may have additional to share.
Andrew a very similar answer for gas.
2015 there was almost $70 million in there between our advanced the completion of our Advanced Meter project.
Public improvement that we don't expect to continue at that level and other expenditures such as some work we're doing on our new facilities in our Porcaro Tech Lead Detection technology et cetera.
So 2015 was somewhat of an anomaly from a standpoint of the level of CapEx and we'll go back to more normal levels.
In addition to that we've done a good job have worked hard to prioritize our capital especially in the near term but we are meeting all of our needs in terms of integrity management CapEx et cetera and have an aggressive strategy still to replace cast iron and with bare steel and so on.
Andrew it's also - it also can be very difficult.
Both of these gentlemen mentioned it could be very difficult forecast public improvement dollars spend as that's something that is influenced by other activities around us.
So that's certainly one of the category.
I do want to highlight too though that while the spend is reduced from prior plans and the rate base growth is impacted by not just the spend by bonus deprecation we are essentially working hard to optimize and maintain the earnings at prior year levels that we've been talking about.
Got it.
That makes a lot of sense.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Fishman from Morningstar.
If I could just follow up on the last question though.
I mean yes 2015 is higher but if I can compare your new five year plan with the old five year plan 2016 through 2019 the CapEx numbers for both T&amp;D and Gas distribution are down 15% to 20%.
So is that all coming from this public improvements area.
I haven't any time to look at those slides in the appendix? Charles those are major contributors to it but they are not the only there is also some reductions as our folks look at the system particularly on the electric side some reduction is associated with estimates around the growth capital that's needed to fill the needs of the system over this period.
And Jo was there another - was there any other point for the gas business other than the public improvements.
I think as we've looked at prioritizing that capital and especially replacing old pipe and old infrastructure part of what we are doing is taking advantage of our risk base system that we've had in place in the past but really fine tuning it to be very systematic in the way we go about that.
So another words we want to replace the riskiest pipe first and so as we've gotten more clarity around how that occurs it's actually - we've actually determined that it doesn't need to be as much capital as we thought just a year ago.
So that's another factor in our budget.
Scott when you went into the annual planning process did you ask your key people because we are not as certain about what's going to happen with distributions to enable to reduce - to essentially extend out some of these projects that you had originally planned a year ago.
Is that some what's going on? No this is driven primarily by the assessments that boil up from the organization about the CapEx that's needed for things like maintenance reliability growth and those requirements and those inputs change year to year as the engineers are looking at the demands on the system and projects that are coming and going.
Where they're being cited and as you look further out I think it becomes less clear as to exactly what's going to occur in those particular years and as we revise this again this coming year you could see some fluctuations in those out years like we've seen here but we build this based on the operators input of what's needed to run these systems safely and reliably.
Will you plan going forward Dennis to update the five-year plan every year just once a year.
Yes that's been our practice.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Our next question comes from Kamal Patel from Wells Fargo.
Good morning everyone.
First of all thanks for adding slide 33.
Provide some clarity on the rate case timeline.
Bill this question is probably more for you.
Trying to get an idea if some of these debt numbers the refinance $600 million in Houston.
I'm guessing that's refinancing a short-term debt.
And then the debt maturities at CenterPoint.
And so is that going to be refinanced or is that pending some clarity on the strategic review.
Sure.
So right.
Today we have approximately $1 billion in short-term debt outstanding against just over $6 billion in total debt.
So we have conservative interest rate risk profile.
Having said that we recognize that Houston Electric it's appropriate to term out some of that debt.
So the 600 million that were terming out is just that.
It's largely terming out existing short-term borrowings plus Houston Electric will be a borrower this year.
It has a sizable CapEx per graph.
And then the maturities we have one maturity this year at CERC and then we have maturity next year at CERC and at the holding company.
We'll take a look at how those might be refinanced as they come due and in the context of our balance sheet.
As I said in my prepared remarks inclusive of our pending acquisition of Continuum we only expect to have incremental borrowings this year of $150 million.
Does that help? Okay.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Paul Patterson from Glenrock Associates.
Good morning.
Good morning Paul.
You guys have answered a lot of questions.
I really have one very simple one and I apologize for not getting this clear.
But the $2.6 billion of - that's associated with the current carrying value at Enable.
What is the tax basis on that? If you could - I mean if you break that down to me.
What would be the equivalent tax basis vis-à-vis the $11.6 or $2.6 billion.
Paul this is Bill.
Just to clarify where you working to connect the impartment relative to the tax.
I'm working to sort of figure out what you guys are currently carrying at Enable in terms of on a tax basis if you would actually do a taxable transaction associated with.
Okay.
Got it.
So the impairment for our investment in Enable is related to taxes that we might take.
Should we sell Enable for cash and that they are accrual estimates right.
So we took an impairment charge based upon year end factors and brought down the balance sheet investment at Enable to $11.6 and then when we took down that balance sheet investment it was - we needed to update and within our deferred taxes.
What that deferred tax would be? So both are accrual estimates and the differed tax estimate is based both upon the balance sheet number as well as our current tax bases and Enable.
And on an earlier call we were asked if that's negative in fact it is and we can help you through that math but those are the factors.
The actual tax obligation should we consider cash sale would be based upon the proceeds at that time and basis at that time.
And the tax basis is what? The current tax basis? Yeah.
The way to derive that is again take your $11.06 the $1.2 billion in the tax footnote and 35% you can derive tax basis that is negative several hundred million dollars.
Okay.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Okay Paul.
Sorry for the clarification request.
Thank you so much.
I believe that was our final question.
Thank you everyone for your interest in CenterPoint Energy.
We now conclude our fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
Have a nice day.
This concludes CenterPoint Energy's fourth quarter and full year 2015 earnings conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.