Welcome to the Aflac First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thank you Diane and good morning everyone and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos our Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer; Jerry Jeffery Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer; and Toru Tonoike President and Chief Operating Officer of Aflac Japan who's joining us remotely from Tokyo.
Before we start let me remind you that some statements in this teleconference are forward looking within the meaning of federal securities guidelines.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discussed.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly report for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn our program over to Dan this morning who's going to begin with some comments about the quarter and our operations in both Japan and the U.S.
I'll follow up with a few financial highlights for the first quarter and then we'll be glad to take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I hope you've had a chance to review our first quarter press release.
I'll comment on our operations in Japan and the United States.
But first I'd like to discuss what's been going on in Japan over the last 6 weeks.
Clearly the earthquake and tsunami on March 11 and the subsequent nuclear situation presented Japan with one of the biggest crises it's ever faced.
The whole world watched helplessly through television and social media as devastating pictures and news coverage of the disastrous situation unfolded.
We've been operating in Japan for more than 35 years.
If there's one thing we've found in developing such close ties in Japan it's that the Japanese people are resilient.
And when I visited Japan the week after the earthquake I saw this resilience.
Our employees are safe our business operations are running and we do not expect any material impact on claims or earnings this year.
Life is moving forward for most Japanese citizens and so is our resolve to be there for our policyholders during their time of need by paying claims just as we promised.
Aflac Japan generated strong results in the first quarter and we're again pleased with the financial performance of our largest earnings contributor.
Revenue growth showed continued improvement rising 3.7% for the quarter.
In addition our pretax margin continued to expand resulting in solid earnings growth for the quarter.
We were particularly pleased with the continued sales momentum in the quarter.
In fact Aflac Japan generated the largest first quarter production in its 36-year history.
New annualized premium sales exceeded our expectations and rose 12.6% to JPY 34.1 billion.
With the expanding bank channel in mind Aflac Japan has developed innovative products that align well with the product needs of banks.
Bank sales in the first quarter posted another record with sales of JPY 7.9 billion which represents an increase of 12.6% over the fourth quarter of 2010 and a 154% increase over the first quarter of 2010.
I mentioned how we believe more banks and mega banks in particular would step up their efforts in selling Aflac's products and that's exactly what we've been seeing.
At the end of March Aflac Japan was represented by 364 banks and more than 90% of the total number of banks in Japan.
While many banks have agreed to sell our products turning that agreement from ink on paper into sales does not happen overnight especially with more than 20 000 branches representing the 364 banks.
It will take some time to facilitate training at all these locations but we're seeing sales steadily improving at many of these banks as training takes place and the banks expand their offering of Aflac products.
In many of the banks sales representatives had gained experience at selling our products and their confidence level and their sales ability has grown.
WAYS and child endowment products which are both especially popular with banks were key drivers to growth again in the first quarter.
You'll recall that WAYS is a unique hybrid whole life product that's being converted to fixed annuity medical coverage or nursing care benefit when the policyholder reaches a predetermined age.
The real story can be seen in WAYS' phenomenal sales growth rate which was an increase of 221% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Consumers find WAYS attractive because of the guaranteed principal and the future flexibility of the benefit options.
Banks like to sell this product because of its high premium and attractive commission and Aflac's product margin on WAYS is significantly enhanced when policy holders elect to pay all the premium upfront through the discounted advanced premium.
Importantly 90% of the customers at the banks choose this payment option.
As our banking channel becomes a greater contributor to our top line growth we expect sales of this innovative and flexible product to grow significantly in 2011.
As I mentioned the other strong driver to sales growth is child endowment product which was up 58.9% in the first quarter.
This product is primarily used to help fund the higher cost associated with child's entering high school or college in Japan.
Child endowment policies have been very popular in Japan for many years.
Aflac's strong brand this product's unmatched return and our expanding presence in banks are competitive advantages that have helped make our child endowment policy the product of choice.
You'll recall that the average premium for child endowment is much lower profit margin but because it is wanted and needed in the bank channel and is about 3x the premium of the medical policies the premium is a very solid contributor to top line growth.
It's also helpful in enhancing our policyholder base allowing us the opportunity to cross sell additional products like WAYS to consumers.
Like WAYS our child endowment offers a discounted advanced premium and the profit margin on the child endowment more than doubles when the policyholders elect to pay premiums upfront using the discounted advanced premiums.
About half of the consumers who purchase child endowment through the banks elect the discounted advanced premium method of payment.
As expected cancer insurance sales were down 10.4% for the quarter as prospective policyholders and sales agents postponed cancer insurance purchases and sales in anticipation of the introduction of the new base cancer policy DAYS which was introduced at the end of March.
The enhancement of this new base policy speaks to the changing landscape in cancer treatment as well as our commitment to retaining the #1 provider of cancer insurance in Japan.
Sales of cancer insurance accounted for 17.5% of total sales.
Keep in mind that the foundation of our product portfolio has been and continues to be cancer and medical products.
Importantly we maintain our position as the #1 seller of medical products in Japan which confirms the continued popularity and demand for our innovative policies.
The solid platform we established with these 2 pillar products has allowed us to leverage our competitive advantages such as branding and administrative efficiencies to grow our product offering and meet the evolving needs of the consumers.
From top to bottom Aflac Japan performed extremely well in the first quarter especially in light of the natural disaster and tough sales comparisons to a year ago.
But as I've told you following 2 years of strong sales growth the sales comparisons only get tougher as the year goes on especially in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In addition we believe the natural disaster has affected our sales primarily in the affected regions but I still believe we can achieve our sales target for the year in the range of down 2% to up 3%.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operations.
We were very pleased and excited with Aflac's U.S.
performance from both the sales and a financial perspective.
For the first time in 9 quarters Aflac U.S.
generated positive sales growth and new annualized premium sales were up nicely generating a 6.3% sales increase.
We were especially encouraged to see an increase in production from both new and veteran agents.
In fact we saw crossover where Aflac career agents embraced group products.
To me it all boils down to giving our customers a choice between group and individual products.
As I've said before I tell our entire U.S.
distribution system that I don't care whether they sell group or individual products but I do care that they give the group or the individual platform options to the employers with more than 100 workers.
That's because if they don't at least let these accounts know we offer the group options now you can bet that someone else will.
I truly believe that if the employer wants group products and they know Aflac offers them they'll choose Aflac over the competition.
For both group and individual products we are driving sales through specific product pushes called smart launches which are modeled after Aflac Japan's product launches that effectively focus on the entire sales force on selling one specific product during a specific period of time.
Our first smart launch was in the first quarter and it focused on the Dental product.
The results were phenomenal.
Our dental category generated a 37.1% sales increase and contributed 6.9% to the total annualized premium sales.
We've also seen success with the Critical Illness product created for the group platform.
While this product was only introduced in mid-2010 it has provided both our traditional sales force and brokers with valuable products to add to accounts that currently have cancer products on an individual basis.
This is a good example of a product that helps career agents transition and expand their portfolio to include not only individual products but also group products.
On the distribution side our strategy we've said many times before that today's recruits are tomorrow's sales.
With that in mind in early January we launched our first ever recruiting campaign utilizing national television advertising.
It featured a commercial with successful agents sharing their story and generating phenomenal leads which ultimately contributed significantly to our 13.5% increase in recruiting for the first quarter.
As you can see we've taken measures to better reach potential customers with some innovative products benefit solutions -- and we've improved Aflac U.S.
sales not only to reflect intense focus on supporting our field force with enhanced products but also reflects the better resources and training that helps our sales force better approach selling in the current environment.
We will continue to help our entire distribution new and veteran agents as well as brokers with ways they can provide and improve their performance because they are essential part of our strategy and our success.
All of these elements are fundamental to the model that we've been following in the U.S.
We call it "recruit train motivate and sell." For those of you who will be coming to the financial analysts briefing in New York on the May 17 and 18 we'll be sharing more about this model and the products that we're going to introduce.
We continue to believe the U.S.
provides a vast and accessible market for our products and we are building our business with that potential in mind.
We also believe our expectations that Aflac U.S.
sales growth for 2011 will be flat to up 5% is reasonable and our first quarter sales are a good start toward achieving that objective.
Given the state of the economy we still remain somewhat cautious.
In addition this is a momentum business.
Although our 6.3% sales increase is a great start I would obviously like to see the momentum build for a few quarters.
It is clear however that the addition of group product platforms and our growing broker initiative only serve to enhance our ability to leverage Aflac's brand and to reach more companies large and small across the United States.
Now let me update you on Aflac Inc.'s results.
Overall we're pleased with Aflac's consolidated performance.
Operating per share diluted rose 15.6% to $1.63.
Excluding the benefit of the stronger yen operating earnings per diluted shares rose 8.5%.
We believe that our basic investment approach of effectively managing assets to policy liabilities is the most prudent approach for our policyholders and shareholders.
As you've heard us say repeatedly since early 1990s our greatest challenge is investing huge cash flows in Japan's low interest rate environment.
To reiterate what we said in our year-end conference call one of our top focuses in 2011 is concentration risk.
While our largest exposures are predominantly a legacy issues we have continued to look at ways to optimistically reduce some larger positions where practical.
As I said last week on CNBC we focused on growing our operating earnings while derisking to further enhance the quality of the portfolio.
I don't think many of you fully recognize the extent of our investment portfolio derisking activities that we've been actively engaged in over the last couple of years so I'm going to cover 4 major derisking actions that we've taken to remind you of what we've accomplished.
For instance as we began 2009 our holding of perpetual subordinated securities was approximately 13% of the portfolio.
At the end of the first quarter perpetual subordinated debt accounted for less than 9% of the portfolio a 30% decrease.
We also de-risked the portfolio by lowering our concentration in financial exposures.
At the start of 2009 banks and other financials made up 41% of the total portfolio and at the end of the first quarter of this year the number had dropped to 33% a 20% decrease.
We've accomplished this by both selling assets as well as reducing the percentage of new investments allocated for the financial sector.
We also reduced our exposure to the PIIGS countries.
At the start of 2009 these sovereign and financial exposures made up approximately 6% of the total portfolio.
At the end of the first quarter that number has declined to 4% a 33% decrease.
As I've already suggested we are now focused on addressing some of our legacy issues especially some of those highly concentrated positions.
Within the PIIGS portfolio we've started with lowering the exposure in 2010.
And in the first quarter of 2011 we focused our efforts on reducing our exposure to Greek financial system.
Today our holding of Greek banks has been reduced by 82% from the beginning of 2011.
This percentage decline also reflects the sale of one of the banks following quarter end.
In addition to significantly reducing our exposure to Greek financial systems we also focused on reducing some of our larger concentrated positions where practical.
As such we sold some of our holdings in available-for-sale categories that exceeded 10% of tax.
We believe these actions to lessen the concentrated risk in our investment portfolio further strengthens our balance sheet.
Our business continues to generate significant capital in the first quarter.
As we have communicated over the past several years maintaining a strong risk-based capital ratio or RBC remains a top priority for us and you'll recall that it remains a primary component of the management incentive plan for all Aflac officers.
Our objective for 2011 is to derisk our portfolio while maintaining our RBC ratio in the range of 400% to 500% with a target of 450%.
Although we have not yet completed our statutory financial statements for the first quarter we estimate our RBC fell within the range of 500% to 525% at the end of March.
I believe our ability to maintain a strong RBC exemplifies our effective capital management strategies.
As you'll recall 2010 marked the 28th consecutive year of a dividend increase.
Our objective remains to increase cash dividends generally in line with earnings growth before the impact of the yen.
We will again evaluate a dividend increase later this year but I am confident we will extend our consecutive annual dividend increases for 29 years.
Additionally you'll recall that we resumed the share repurchase program in the fourth quarter.
We purchased 3.1 million shares in the first quarter and anticipate purchasing 6 million to 12 million shares for 2011.
However we will balance our share repurchase activities this year with the derisking opportunities that ultimately enhance our portfolio.
With the first quarter of the year complete we continue to believe we are well positioned for another year of solid financial performance.
We still believe our goal of increasing operating earnings per diluted share is reasonable and attainable.
I believe we've also done a very good job in managing Aflac Japan and U.S.
operations especially the expense control.
As the year progresses we anticipate increasing our spending particularly in marketing and IT initiatives.
And we have said previously given the continued low interest rate environment especially in Japan for 2011 we expect to be at the low end of the 8% to 12% range for operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of yen.
As you know we historically announced our earnings guidance for the following year at our May analysts meeting.
Although we have not yet finalized our projections for 2012 I can tell you that our expected rate of earnings growth next year will likely be lower than 2011 due primarily to the portfolio derisking activity and the continued low interest rate environment in Japan.
After the effects of the derisking and the low interest rates in Japan and the United States have fully integrated into the financial results we should expect to see the rate of increase in earnings begin to improve.
With respect to achieving our objectives you've heard me say many times before that we manage this company for the long term.
As such we believe that derisking our portfolio is more important than the effect on one year's earnings and in doing so we'll ultimately enhance the shareholder value.
Now I'll turn it back over to Robin.
Robin? Thank you Dan.
And as Dan said and you are all aware the quakes and subsequent tsunami that hit Japan on March 11 had a devastating impact on the country and they remain in our thoughts and prayers.
But I'd like to go through some of the numbers to-date that reflect the magnitude of this event.
According to the official report by Japan's National Police Agency as of April 28 total lives that were lost is 14 575 and there are still 11 324 who are missing.
There are also 5 277 who are reported injured.
We estimate that there will be a total impact of JPY 3 billion in claims and of this amount we booked a total of JPY 1 billion to incurred claims and the remaining approximately JPY 2 billion will be handled through reinsurance plans we have and offsetting reserve releases.
There was also JPY 0.7 billion of operating expenses resulting from the earthquake and tsunami.
Now I'd like to go through some first quarter numbers for Japan.
Beginning with the top line in yen terms revenues were up 3.7% for the quarter.
Investment income was down slightly 0.7%.
However excluding the effect of the stronger yen on Aflac Japan's dollar-denominated investment income net income rose 2.7% in the quarter.
Annualized premium persistency rate excluding annuities was 94.3% compared to 93.8% in 2010.
In terms of quarterly operating ratio the benefit ratio improved over last year moving from 59.5% a year ago to 59.0% in the first quarter.
The expense ratio for the quarter was 18.6% down from 19.1% a year ago.
As a result the lower benefit and expense ratios to pretax margin rose from 21.4% to 22.4% in the quarter.
With the expansion of the margin pretax earnings increased 8.5% for the quarter in yen terms.
For the quarter we invested our cash flow in yen securities at 2.36% and including the dollars invested the blended rate was 3.16%.
As we discussed last year part of our strategy to address the low interest rate environment in Japan we made dollar-denominated purchases to extend the $1 billion we discussed in the fourth quarter of the year and the amount $290 million.
That amount purchase through the end of Japan for that objective totaled $993 million.
The yield on these investments was 4.26%.
Our portfolio yield rose 3.56% at the end of March no change from the end of December and 19 basis points lower than a year ago.
Now turning to Aflac U.S.
Total revenues rose 3.1% in the first quarter.
The benefit ratio was 48.8% compared with 45.5% a year ago.
The rise in the benefit ratio reflected a return to a more normalized number in 2011 following the decline in the benefit ratio in 2010 which resulted from the loss of a large account.
The operating expense ratio decreased from 35.4% to 32.0% reflecting a delay in spending on several projects that will be incurred later in the year.
Also driving the operating expense number down to the first quarter was a return in amortization to a more normalized number after the loss of the large account increased the 2010 debt number.
The profit margin for the quarter was 19.2% compared with 19.1% a year ago.
In terms of U.S.
investment the new money yield for the quarter was 5.77% versus 5.98% a year ago.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of March was 6.84% down 8 basis points from the fourth quarter and 22 basis points from a year ago.
Now turning to some other items in the quarter.
Noninsurance expense for the first quarter was $41 million compared with $31 million a year ago.
The higher interest expense primarily reflects our debt issuance in the second half of 2010 of $750 million.
Our parent company and other expenses remained flat at $14 million compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Total company operating margins rose reflecting the improved profitability of Aflac Japan and U.S.
Pretax margins rose from 20.0% to 20.7%.
The after-tax margin increased from 13.0% to 13.5%.
And on an operating basis the tax rate remains relatively unchanged at 34.2%.
Net earnings per diluted share for the quarter was $0.84 compared to $1.35 in 2010.
Realized investment losses were $0.79 per share for the quarter compared to $0.06 per share in 2010.
During the quarter we realized investment losses of $376 million net of tax or $0.79 per diluted share primarily as a result of the significant derisking activities in the quarter that Dan outlined.
$115 million was attributable to our sale of holdings in the Alpha Bank $258 million resulted from the impairment of 2 other Greek banks: National Bank of Greece and EFG Eurobank.
We also lowered our holdings of other concentrated positions with smaller transactions and impairments and these transactions altogether resulted in a gain of $16 million.
The remaining $19 million loss is associated with derivative and hedging activity.
As reported our operating earnings per diluted share rose 15.6% to $1.63.
The stronger yen increased operating earnings by $0.10 per diluted share.
Excluding the yen's impact operating earnings per diluted share rose 8.5% for the quarter that was in our annual range of the low end of 8% to 12%.
Lastly let me comment on earnings outlook for 2011.
As you heard we have affirmed our objective for 2011 with an 8% to 12% increase in operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of the Yen.
But as we've previously said given the low interest rate environment especially in Japan we expect to be at the low end of the 8% to 12% range for operating earnings per diluted share excluding the Yen impact.
Assuming an 8% increase in operating earnings per share growth we would expect to earn $5.97 on a constant currency basis.
If the Yen averages 80 85 for the second quarter we would expect operating earnings to be $1.51 to $1.57 per diluted share.
If we achieve our objective of that 8% growth and the Yen averages 80 to 85 for the full year we would expect EPS to be in the area of $6.09 to $6.34 per diluted share.
As we mentioned in our press release last night although we historically announce earnings guidance for the following year at our May analysts meeting and our 2012 earnings projection is not finalized we do anticipate that earnings for the next year 2012 would likely be lower than 2011.
Let me take this opportunity to remind you that our annual analyst meeting will be held in New York City on May 17 and 18.
We'll be there to provide you with further updates on our operations in both the U.S.
and Japan along with our outlook for this year and the following year so we invite you to please log in and register to attend.
I'm now ready Diane to start taking questions.
To be fair to everybody please limit yourself to 1 question and we'd be happy now to start with the questions.
[Operator Instructions] Randy Binner FBR Capital Markets.
Oh great.
Thank you.
So I just wanted to ask a question about what happened with the RBC ratio in the quarter.
I guess the 2 specific questions would be: one if you could outline exactly how much of the RBC decrease was from ratings drift in the quarter and if you can outline any credits that happened with; and the second piece is if you could disclose what liquidity was at the whole co[ph] at the end of the quarter? Okay.
This is Kriss.
RBC came down from about 555%.
At the end of the year to right now we're looking at a range of 500% to 525%.
A significant item in there was the downgrade to Israel Electric that S&amp;P came through with after at the end of the year and after the time we've closed our statutory books.
And that -- because it's a concentrated risk caused our RBC to decline almost 20 points.
So if you said well okay that would have been 555% to 535% and then of course the other big piece was the impairments that we recorded in the first quarter.
Whole co[ph] cash was around $700 million at year end it came down to about $550 million.
We paid a shareholder dividend order of magnitude $140 million.
We repurchased shares for probably about $170 million and we had a dividend from the live company to the parent company for about $120 million or $130 million.
I don't remember the exact number.
$144 million.
$144 million okay.
Robin knows the exact numbers.
That will get you there.
That's very helpful.
Just one follow-up on Israel Elec is that a move from NAIC Level 1 to 2 or 2 to 3? 2 to 3.
Ken says it's moved from 2 to 3.
NAIC 2 NAIC 3.
Okay so it's in the below-investment grade market then? It's split rated.
Randy this is Ken.
It's split rated and for GAAP purposes it's still considered an investment grade asset.
For statutory purposes our rules are that we take the second lowest rating which would be in this case since there's 2 ratings below investment grade and that's what moved it to a 3.
Understood.
Thank you.
Joanne Smith Scotia Capital.
I want to switch gears a little bit and talk about the U.S.
for a minute because I don't think many of us were expecting the turnaround in sales in that region.
If Paul is available could you talk about some of the data mining activities that you've been doing to try and drill down and find better ways to approach the markets in the U.S.
and what kind of success you're having there because I think it's remarkable that we saw the results after 9 quarters of decreases? Thanks.
Thank you Joanne.
We are very excited.
I do want to tell you that I do not believe this is a sudden result.
I think this is a plan that's been put in place over the last several quarters.
Our sales and marketing teams are working more tightly together than ever.
You could see that through the beginning of the effects with our first ever DRTV or recruiting campaign which helped drive up our overall recruiting by 13.5% this past quarter.
At the same time things like our smart launches even though we used it on a smaller product line like dental it was a direct effect of conferences that we put in place between the U.S.
and Japan several years ago.
We began to learn about the positive effects of what they were doing and then marrying up what was happening socially with how to drive product demand.
In the U.S.
this year due to smart product launch we were able to drive demand for dental by using our duck and leveraging it in our existing accounts to really help push specific product lines.
We do hope that that's something that we can continue to expand on in the future that will continue to help drive up our existing accounts sales as well as our veteran agents' sales.
We've coined that term our book of business.
We'll be talking more about several of these items at our upcoming FAB meeting.
I'm very excited about what we're seeing.
I do think that this is the beginning of something positive.
How quickly and how big is that I think it's too early for us to tell.
I think at the end of the second quarter I'll be better able to tell you whether the turn is completely in.
But I think at this point I'm very proud of our sales team and Tom Giddens and our marketing team and Michael Zuna and all the people who have worked very hard to make this happen.
And I do believe that there's no fluke in the numbers here.
This is just a great quarter of sales that has been long in place from a turnaround good momentum by our sales force and a very strong balance between good broker sales and good career agent sales.
But in the end I do believe that probably the overriding factor in all of this has been Aflac Group.
The fact is that it is not only been the sales that have happened in the group business but also the momentum that having the group business has brought to both our career channel and our broker channel.
So that's a lot to say but I think there are a lot of good factors happening all of which are coming together for what was our best quarter in a long period of time.
So Paul this is a follow-up.
Do you really think that the group is starting to gel now? Is this kind of a result of the integration and adoption of the practices you acquired with the Continental acquisition? Or is this efforts that you've had in place prior and then just added a little bit to the scale? I think there was some pent-up demand among our career sales force for group products.
I think you're seeing some of that happen now.
I believe that's something that will sustain itself for some period of time especially as we continue to go out and add suggestions to all of our existing accounts offering our group products.
We still have not we've only begun to see the beginning of that.
In terms of what's happening for the company and CAIC I believe it is now giving us the opportunity to go after the entire market.
We were primarily focused on the small end of the market in the past really employers of 100 and under.
This gives us the opportunity to go after the larger employers in America and do so with a set of products that they really want as well as going after the brokerage community with a set of products that they desire.
And as a result we're beginning to see some momentum really build in those areas.
It's still early but I am very excited.
Ed Spehar Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
I wanted to talk a little bit about the implied derisking that maybe you're sending a message on with initial comments about 2012.
I guess if you did some quick math and you just assumed some sales and reinvestment at lower rates and some loss on sales that it seems like for you to have a 1 point impact on EPS growth it would require probably portfolio derisking of related to maybe a couple billion dollars of holdings.
So I guess what I'm trying to get at is is the message here that we should be looking for portfolio derisking over the next several quarters to potentially be at the kind of pace that we saw in the first quarter? I'll start out and Ken might want to follow up with comments.
Really Ed it takes awhile for the cumulative effect of derisking to work its way through earnings.
And over the last couple of years we've had a substantial amount of derisking in addition to what we had in the first quarter.
I think we've had about $1.6-or-so billion in realized losses over the last couple of years.
We had another $450 million or so this quarter.
We're going to have some more in all likelihood.
And the numbers you guys have are not unreasonable there.
But it's a cumulative effect of low interest rates and the fact that it takes say 12 to 18 months to get the effects all the way through the financial results that lead us to be thoughtful about how we're going to project earnings.
In addition I'll say when we derisk -- there are several ways to derisk some of which affect P&amp;L more than others.
Clearly if you decide to sell a security that you believe you don't want to hold anymore and you take a realized loss you've got a lower amount of funds to invest and then you've got decisions about whether to invest those funds in dollars or yen and then what categories of yen assets you might be able to acquire.
On the other hand you might take an impairment and derisk just by reducing equity and the like but not sell if you thought really the credit characteristics of the security were such that you didn't need to sell it.
And then when you deal with concentrations you're probably going to sell positions and you have to positions in concentration to reduce your concentration of those type securities.
So we haven't fully concluded on exactly what steps we're going to take and there's just a level of uncertainty.
But we think the net result is going to be a modest slowdown in earnings growth for some period to come.
Ken do you want to comment further on that or you think that's enough? The only thing Ed that I would add to that is that we clearly can't telegraph exactly what we may or may not be interested in derisking.
And really at this point exactly what we're thinking about in terms of capacity but I can tell you that we regularly review our capital position both from an RBC and a solvency margin standpoint to just see what kind of derisking we can tolerate from a capital deployment standpoint and again balance that against our interest in purchase and shares.
The only other comment I'd make is remember that if derisking can impact also share repurchase and that could be a factor too in slowing down growth.
That can be a couple of points in addition to the loss in investment income you cited.
Okay just one follow-up.
I think you've had some success of recategorizing a large-held to maturity investment to available for sale with the Israel Electric one rating going to junk are you going to be able to recategorize? And just a broader question even if you can't recategorize these things who cares if you taint the portfolio and it all becomes available for sale if it -- sort of increases your flexibility to derisk this portfolio? I'll start with the answer and see where it goes.
We have looked at this.
We look at it continually.
We're not as concerned about tainting on a GAAP basis but that would also result in tainting on a Japan GAAP or FSA reporting basis.
And you may remember from analyst meetings for several years that we have showed a chart that suggests our sensitivity or the solvency margin sensitivity to interest rate changes.
So if we were to move all of our held to maturity assets to available for sale those bonds would be subject to mark-to-market accounting.
And at the time when the FSA has modified the solvency margin calculation which will effectively reduce the numbers for the industry in half we don't think that it's prudent to expose our portfolio to the influence of mark-to-market accounting and what will likely be a rising rate environment.
Do you want to address the specific reclassification we had this quarter? Israel Electric would fall into that camp.
It is split rated from a staff standpoint but it is still investment grade from a GAAP standpoint.
We were able to move Tunisia from held to maturity to available for sale after going through a very extensive credit analysis that took a period of many many weeks.
And you'll see that in our financial supplemental disclosures that it's now categorized as below investment grade even though the actual rating agency ratings show it's still as investment grade.
But it is now in available for sale and it's fair value would be reflected therefore and included in the solvency margin calculation.
That's one thing.
Let me make another comment Ed.
There's a rigor around doing these reclassifications and the like and making decisions to impair or sell.
You'll see when we put out our 10-Q a discussion of the events that led to our conclusion that we needed to sell and impair our holdings in the Greek banks and that required events that need to be documented to satisfy the SEC and the regulators and the accountants and the like.
It's not just a gut-feel type of decision that we make around here.
And we had to go through a fairly rigorous process too to document and our conclusion that it's appropriate to move Tunisia from held to maturity to available for sale category in all of our categories in financial statements so that we avoided tainting the whole portfolio for reasons Ken discussed.
Our next question comes from Darin Arita Deutsche Bank.
Thank you.
I was hoping to turn to Japan and was wondering if you could detail some of the sales activity following the earthquake.
I think Toru's on the line.
I'm going to let him answer that.
After the earthquake basically we have a lot of -- sales activity was affected in accordance with the situation.
We have counted many of the TV commercials just refraining from making sales pitches to the public in that circumstances.
And also we have activities of our agents were somewhat disrupted because of the disrupted transportation or shortage of gasoline or planned blackouts.
So our sales activities as a whole was reduced the latter half of March and a good part of April.
But now it is going back to normal.
And we are returning to the normal sales activities and promotions mode.
So at this point purely from the viewpoint of the sales promotion method we are not doing anything very specific we are just increasing our promotion activities in general.
Can you quantify what the falloff was in the latter part of March? I'll respond to that.
This is Dan.
There's a difference between the U.S.
and Japan.
They don't use SMART Act in Japan like we do in the U.S.
So there's a time lag so my gut is that and it is a gut because I want to wait and see what April numbers look like.
And we plan on telling you at the FAB meeting.
We normally don't cover what sales numbers are for a month but we're going to give you April numbers when we got them.
But I don't think March reflects what really happened maybe the last week did a little bit but it's hard to tell.
And so at this point we don't want to go out and make some statement then all of a sudden the next couple of weeks we see a difference.
And as Toru talked about pretty much everything is kind of getting back to normal now.
And of course the area that was directly hit it will be quite a time but that accounted for 5% of our sales.
So that will kind of give you an idea of what to look at.
So what I've tried to kind of analyze in my mind is in terms of these numbers if you say that okay sales in the first quarter were basically where we thought they would be.
Because remember we expected a good first quarter a little bit better than what we thought but we expect sales to be flat to down in the fourth quarter because of the tough sales comparison.
So if you go back and say okay the first quarter that area that was affected was 5% of our sales then say the second quarter the number 0 and the third quarter is 1/2 and the fourth quarter is 1/2 then that means that our overall sales have been hurt by 2.5% over what our original projections are.
And then say Tokyo was hurt for a short period of time but outside Tokyo nothing else was really that affected then we're actually increasing our sales objective in that the 2% to 5% still we think we can make yet down 2% to up 3% or 5% swing is actually a higher number because we got to make up the difference of what happened due to the tsunami.
Got it.
That's very helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Nigel Dally Morgan Stanley.
Great.
Thanks.
I just wanted to follow up on Darin's question with regard to Japan sales.
Appreciate the comments you made but couldn't we be looking at a situation where demand could actually meaningfully pick up in the aftermath of the disaster like what you saw at a place [indiscernible]? Wouldn't that also be a factor which should help the sales result in the back half of the year? Any comments there would be very helpful.
Thanks.
Yes.
I think it is possible that could help our sales.
But it is very difficult to measure the magnitude of that fact.
So at this point we would rather not take that into account for our plan this year.
Okay.
If I could follow-up on a different question given that we're seeing the sales through the banks really pick up from having the child endowment and WAYS.
Kriss is it possible to comment on whether you're still comfortable with your benefit ratio guidance for the year? Or should we think about adjusting that given the shift in sales? Well we had about a 50 basis point improvement in the quarter.
And we had said that the 100 to 150 basis points -- quite frankly we were surprised but pleased about the level of production of child endowment and WAYS.
I think they were somewhat above expectations.
And as I previously discussed with the community the investment community starting last September the mini FAB and continuing on in the fourth quarter discussions child endowment and WAYS are going to slow down the improvement or the decline in the benefit ratio.
We're still getting the same kind of decline in the cancer product from reduction in number of days in the hospital though as I've told you that's moderating some.
Once you get the numbers down to days in the hospital of around 20 to 22 you don't have as much room for improvement as when the average was say 40 days per stay for a cancer treatment.
So I've told you the improvement in the medical or the cancer line is moderating some.
The child endowment and WAYS products will have the benefit ratio go up some but they'll have the expense ratio go down some and they're going to drive revenue more than the medical products do.
And at the analyst meeting I'm going to show you an analysis that basically I'll just disclosed that early I guess but basically it tells you that if we write the same number of policies of medical and child endowment and WAYS we produce somewhat more profit just modestly more profit by producing the same number of policies with child endowment and WAYS than we do through the medical policies.
And that's because they've got a higher average premium they've got a lower average margin but the profits per policy come out somewhat higher.
So there's a bit of a change in the composition of the way profits are produced.
But the net effect is that you get about the same if not slightly more profit by writing a policy of WAYS or child endowment than a policy of medical or cancer.
John Nadel Sterne Agee.
Thank you.
I was wondering just thinking about Japan and I get the idea that there could be some modest pickup in sales activity over time.
But I'm also wondering if you have a view on any potential likelihood that some level of austerity measures in Japan as the government has to divert funds to reconstruction activities.
Could that ultimately serve to I guess reduce or remove the child credits that have clearly helped to spur the growth in the child endowment and WAYS products? Do you foresee anything on that front? Yes.
It doesn't affect the WAYS product.
It can affect the child endowment but it doesn't affect the WAYS.
And frankly this year -- well in the second half of last year we started emphasizing WAYS by changing the incentives to move the bank channel away from child endowment.
Now if that product drives itself because as you said the government has that subsidy.
But all in all we're kind of moving that direction anyway.
So it would be fine with us to do that.
Of course remember for every 5 child endowment we sell we add 1 new policy of another type to the new policyholder base.
But all in all we're kind of moving that way anyway.
John this is Ken.
The child subsidy was extended for another 6 months meaning until September.
And it will have to be debated and approved by the Diet in order for it to be extended beyond September of this year.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Toru do you have any comment about that? The only thing I could add is that yes child endowment was very helpful for us to start selling start marketing this product with the public at the bank.
It was very good thing to start talking about child endowment policy -- I'm sorry I mean the child allowance payment.
So it helps us a lot in a way that it made it easier for us to start talking about our child endowment policy with the possible clients.
But now that this product is well known and a part of that regular products for the banks and their employees.
So even if the child allowance is reduced or even terminated the impact is not that big going forward.
Okay.
Helpful.
And then I guess the only other question I have for you is there any contemplation of starting maybe a foreign currency hedging program? Given how strong the yen is relative to the dollar any thoughts as to potentially trying to lock in some of that strength as you look forward? I'll say we haven't had substantial discussions on that topic.
We've had discussions about doing some of the things that historically was done through the investment banks of investing in securities denominated in a currency other than yen and having an embedded swap.
We've looked at possibly doing some of that ourselves but we haven't discussed in a meaningful way say hedging P&amp;L if that's where you were headed.
Yes I guess that is where I'm headed.
I mean I assume that clearly there's a cost to doing that and just wondering if the cost benefit makes sense or not.
Well we've done some modest review of that and we've looked into and tried to analyze what some other companies with significant Japanese operations are doing.
And we see that the net gains and losses from that kind of hedging program tend to be relatively modest.
But they do create a risk exposure that we've been averse to over time.
And our historical position of saying okay our shareholders are used to taking the currency risk on the current year's P&amp;L and then do we tend to hedge equity into dollars through holding dollar-denominated securities and having yen-denominated debt.
We're continuing to pursue those programs.
And I'd say we're considering some of those things but generally we found that the risks outweigh what we perceive to be the benefits of those kind of activities.
And Kriss what is the risk? Is it just more counter-party exposure to financial institutions? Well that would be one risk.
It would be the mark-to-market exposure on the hedge that creates volatility of earnings the possibility of economic gains and losses.
Diane we are at the top of the hour so that's the last question.
But I want to let everybody know that Tom McDaniel and I will be here today to follow-up on any questions you may have.
So please feel free to call us if there are any questions and we appreciate everyone tuning in this morning.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Aflac Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; Jerry Jeffery Senior VP and Chief Investment Officer; and from Japan we have Toru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Before we start this morning let me remind you that some statements in the teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they're perspective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly report for some of the various risk factors that can materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and our operations in Japan and the U.S.
Afterwards I'll follow-up with a few financial highlights for the quarter and the first half of the year and then we'll be glad to take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased with Aflac's overall financial and operational performance in the second quarter.
I believe we've established a solid foundation toward achieving our annual operating earnings growth and capital strength objectives.
With half the year behind us we believe we have substantially completed our proactive investment de-risking program from a realized investment loss perspective.
I'll give you more details later but first I'll begin with a review of our operations in Japan and the United States.
Aflac Japan generated strong financial results for both the second quarter and the first 6 months of the year.
Revenue growth rose 3.7% for both the quarter and the first 6 months.
In addition our pretax margin continued to expand resulting in solid earnings growth for the quarter and for the 6 months.
We are particularly pleased with the continued sales momentum in the quarter.
New annualized premium sales in yen exceeded our expectations and rose 6.6% to JPY 36.1 billion for the quarter which was a record for the second quarter production.
For the first half of the year total new sales rose 9.4%.
These results are even more remarkable when you consider that Aflac Japan overcame challenges resulting from the most destructive and devastating natural disaster in Japan's history.
With the expanding bank channel in mind Aflac Japan has developed innovative products that align well with the product needs of banks.
Bank sales continued a strong growth trend with sales of JPY 7.6 billion which represents an increase of 95.6% over the second quarter of 2010.
Sales through banks accounted for more than 21% of the total sales for the second quarter.
I'll mention how we believe more banks mega banks in particular would step up their efforts in selling Aflac products and that's exactly what we've been seeing.
At the end of June Aflac Japan was represented by 367 banks or more than 90% of the total number of banks in Japan.
While many banks have agreed to sell our products turning that agreement from ink on paper into sales does not happen overnight especially with more than 20 000 branches representing 367 banks.
It will take some time to facilitate training at all these locations.
But we're continuing to see sales steadily improving at many of these bank branches as training continues and the banks expand their offering of Aflac's products.
In many of these banks sales representatives have gained experience at selling our products and their confidence level in sales ability has also grown.
WAYS which is especially popular with banks was again a key driver to the growth in the second quarter.
You will recall that WAYS in our unique hybrid whole life product that can be converted to a fixed annuity medical coverage or nursing care benefits when the policy holder reaches a predetermined age.
WAYS has been a phenomenal sales growth story and in the second quarter generated an increase of 190.7% compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Consumers find WAYS attractive because of its guaranteed principle and future flexibility of its benefit options.
Banks like to sell this product because of the high premium and attractive commissions.
And Aflac's profit margin on WAYS is more than double the profit margin for child endowment.
On top of that the profit margin is significantly enhanced even further when the policy holders elect to pay all their premiums upfront through the discounted advanced premium option.
Importantly 90% of the company's customers at the banks choose this type of payment.
As our banking channel becomes a greater contributor to our top line growth we expect sales of the innovative and flexible products to grow significantly in 2011.
With respect to child endowment product as we expected sales decline posting a decrease of 1.4% for the quarter.
Furthermore we have already seen sales of child endowment decline so far in July and we expect sales of child endowment to continue to decline significantly for the remainder of the year.
First and foremost as we told you we are shifting our focus from selling child endowment towards selling WAYS and our new cancer product DAYS.
Second having sold the child endowment product for 2 years now we've already cycled through major first pass at selling our child endowment product to the eligible target of families in young people.
At this range [ph] the remaining growth will primarily come from newborns bearing in mind that Japan's birthrate is low.
And finally the government's towns and cities [ph] that initially helped fuel demand for this product is being re-evaluated for possible reduction or elimination.
As such we expect child endowment sales to diminish.
The foundation of the product portfolio has been and continues to be our cancer and medical products.
Importantly we maintained our position as the #1 seller of cancer and medical products in Japan which confirms the continued popularity and demand for our innovative policies.
Following the March 2011 introduction of DAYS cancer insurance sales increased 12.4% for the quarter.
The enhancements to this new base policy speaks to the changing landscape in cancer treatments as well as our commitment to remaining the #1 provider of cancer insurance in Japan.
Sales of cancer insurance accounted for 24.4% of the total sales.
I don't think when the earthquake and the tsunami struck followed by the nuclear issue that anyone would have believed Aflac Japan sales would be up 6.6% for the second quarter and 9.4% for the first 6 months.
This is a remarkable achievement and I am extremely proud of Aflac Japan.
As I've told you following 2 years of strong sales results the same comparisons get tougher as the year goes on especially in the fourth quarter of 2011.
However with better-than-expected sales results in the first and second quarter we are upwardly revising Aflac sales target to achieve flat to up 5% sales increase.
Now let me turn to our U.S.
operation.
We are very pleased with Aflac U.S.
performance from both a sales and a financial perspective.
Aflac U.S.
generated a 5.9% increase in new annualized premium for the second quarter and a 6.1% sales increase for the first 6 months.
These results have benefited greatly from the addition of group products to the Aflac U.S.
product portfolio.
We are especially encouraged to see that the production from veteran agents continued to increase.
Additionally we continue to see crossover where Aflac's career agents embraced group products.
To me it boils down to giving our customers the choice between group and individual products.
When it comes to selling group versus individual products I've told our entire U.S.
sales force many times that I'm product neutral.
I don't care whether they sell group or individual products but I do want both products to be offered at the work site to employers with more than 100 workers.
That's because we don't offer the group product upfront you can bet someone else will.
I truly believe that if the employer wants group products and hears Aflac offers them they'll choose Aflac over the competition.
And that is proving to be true.
As you'll recall from both group and individual policies we started driving sales earlier this year through specific product pushes called Smart Launches.
Through these coordinated sales and marketing efforts we look at the existing accounts particularly those accounts most likely that need a particular product.
We then align our field force resources strategically and efficiently target these accounts.
Our first Smart Launch was held in the first quarter and focused on promoting dental product.
Building on the success of that effort dental sales increased 44.1% over the second quarter of 2010.
Our second Smart Launch promotes the critical care recovery product which was previously called a specified health event product.
Because this Smart Launch begins in the middle of the second quarter it's too early to quantify its full impact but we're excited about how our sales is embracing both the product itself and the Smart Launch.
On the distribution side our strategy we've said many times before that today's recruits are tomorrow's sales.
Field force recruiting continues to benefit from a targeted national advertising campaign generating a 10.2% increase of recruits for the second quarter and 11.9% for the first half of the year.
We believe improved Aflac's U.S.
sales not only reflect our intense focus on supporting our field with enhanced products including group products but also reflects better resources and training that helps our sales force better approach selling in the current environment.
We will continue to help our entire distribution network new and veteran agents as well as brokers with ways they can improve their performance because they are essential part of our strategy and our success.
We continue to believe the U.S.
is a vast and accessible market for our products and we are building our business with that potential in mind.
We also believe the expectations at Aflac U.S.
sales growth for 2011 will be flat to up 5% is reasonable.
Our sales and recruiting trends are working in our favor and I feel even better today than I did at the Analyst Meeting in May and I'm optimistic that these trends will continue.
It's clear that the addition of the group product platform and our growing broker initiative only served to enhance our ability to leverage Aflac's brand to reach more customers large and small across the United States.
Now let me update you on Aflac Inc.
results.
Overall we're pleased with Aflac's financial performance.
Operating earnings per diluted share rose 15.6% to $1.56 for the quarter or 15.6% or $3.19 for the first 6 months.
Excluding the benefit of the stronger yen operating earnings per diluted share rose 7.4% for the quarter and 8% for the first 6 months.
Consistent with the company's previous stated proactive investment de-risking objectives net earnings in the second quarter included pretax realized investment losses of $668 million or $453 million after-tax which is $0.96 per diluted share.
During the second quarter of 2011 we sold investment securities with an amortized cost of $1.5 billion resulting in a realized pretax loss of $182 million.
The most notable sales in the quarter included several transactions that lowered our exposure to Peripheral Eurozone Holdings (sic) [Securities].
In addition the company impaired certain securities resulting in a pretax loss of $528 million.
These impairments included exposures to 2 Portuguese banks.
As a result of our proactive investment de-risking program Aflac has significantly reduced Peripheral Eurozone Perpetual and Financial exposures on an amortized cost basis.
As the world stands today we believe we have substantially completed our proactive investment de-risking program from a realized investment loss perspective and we are comfortable with the current holdings in our below investment grade securities.
Our unrealized loss position and below investment grades was $470 million at the end of the second quarter out of $93 billion in investment portfolio.
The last time our unrealized loss position in this category was that low was 2008 pre-financial crisis.
Let me tell you that if we thought there was a question with the remaining below investment grade holdings this would have been the quarter to have taken the action by either selling or impairing them.
The strength of our capital position has allowed us to pursue our proactive investment de-risking program to further strengthen our balance sheet and enhance shareholder value for the long term.
As we have communicated over the past several years maintaining a strong risk-based capital or RBC ratio remains a top priority for us.
Although we've not yet completed our statutory financial statements for the second quarter we estimate our RBC ratio will be within the range of 480% to 520% at the end of June.
Additionally we estimate that the solvency margin ratio will be between 520% to 535% based on the revised calculation methods for the quarter ending June 30 2011.
In Japan even with significant proactive investment de-risking program in the second quarter our preliminary solvency margin ratio calculation shows a slight improvement over the solvency margin of 512% for the quarter ending March 31 2011.
We are comfortable with this level and absent a significant change in the market such as a sudden spike in interest rates we anticipate it will improve.
We also believe these ratios our overall financial condition prove solid support to our single A credit rating.
As you'll recall 2010 marked the 28th consecutive year of a dividend increase.
Our objective remains to increase the cash dividend generally in line with the earnings growth before the impact of the yen.
The board will again evaluate the dividend increase later this year but I am confident we will extend our consecutive annual dividend increases to 29 years.
Additionally you'll recall that we resumed our share repurchase program in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We purchased 1 million shares in the second quarter bringing in the total number of shares purchased for the 6 months to 4.1 million shares.
We anticipate ending up at the low end of the 6 million to 12 million shares repurchase target in 2011.
Despite the challenges of the low interest rate environment especially in Japan we now have 2 good quarters under our belt.
Additionally we believe we've substantially completed our proactive investment de-risking program from a realized investment loss perspective.
From an operational standpoint I think we've done a very good job in managing our expenses.
But keep in mind as the year progresses we anticipate increasing our spending particularly on marketing and IT initiatives.
Taking all those factors into consideration I want to reaffirm our 2011 objective of growing operating earnings per diluted share at 8% excluding the impact of the yen.
Looking ahead with this clarity and the year half completed we expect 2012 earnings per diluted share to increase 2% to 5% on a currency neutral basis.
This upward revision to our 2012 earning objective assumes no additional significant investment losses and no meaningful decline in interest rates.
Furthermore once the effects of the proactive investment de-risking program and low investment rates have fully integrated into the financial results we would expect the range of earnings growth in the future years to improve.
I'm pleased with Aflac's overall results for the quarter and for the 6 months.
And I can tell you the global financial challenges we've all seen especially in the changes in the investment environment have only served to re-energize my enthusiasm as the CEO of this company.
And I wouldn't trade places with any other CEO in the world.
And now let me turn the program back to Robin.
Robin? Thank you Dan.
Let me get through some second quarter numbers starting with Japan.
Beginning with the top line in the interim's revenues were up 3.7% for the quarter investment income was down 5% for the quarter.
But excluding the impact of the stronger yen on Aflac Japan's dollar denominated investment income net investment income declined 0.9% in the quarter.
The annualized persistency rate excluding annuities was strong for the first half of 2011 at 94.3% compared with 94.0% in 2010.
In terms of quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio to total premiums that declined slightly to over last year it was 69.9% in the quarter compared with 70.0% a year ago.
The expense ratio for the quarter was 19.2% down from 19.9% a year ago and a pretax margin remained stable at 21.1% in the quarter.
Pretax earnings increased 3.4% for the quarter in yen terms.
For the quarter we invested our cash flow in yen securities at a rate of 2.16% including dollars.
The blended rate was 2.67%.
As part of our strategy to address the low interest rate environment in Japan we made dollar denominated purchases totaling $1 billion in the quarter the total amount purchased through the end of June 2011 was $2.5 billion.
The yield on these investments through June 30 was 4.72%.
The portfolio yield was 3.51% at the end of June down 5 basis points from the end of March and 20 basis points lower than a year ago.
Next I'll turn to Aflac U.S.
Total revenues rose 4.0% for the quarter.
The annualized persistency rate for the first half of the year improved significantly and it increased to 75.2% up from 71.1% a year ago.
Persistency in U.S.
was higher as a result of a return to a more normalized rate in 2011 after the decline of persistency in 2010 from the loss of a large account.
Looking at our operating ratios for the quarter the benefit ratio to total premiums was 57.0% compared with 57.1% a year ago.
The operating expense ratio declined from 31.3% to 31% reflecting a delay in spending on several projects that will be started later in the year.
The profit margin for the quarter was 18.4% compared with 17.7% a year ago.
In terms of U.S.
investments the new money yield for the quarter was 5.72% versus 6.11% a year ago.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of June was 6.7% down 8 basis points from the first quarter and 28 basis points from a year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter.
In June we issued JPY 50 billion in the Samurai bond market totaling JPY 50 billion or approximately $625 million.
Noninsurance interest expense in the second quarter was $41 million compared with $31 million a year ago primarily reflecting our debt issuance in the second half of 2010 of $750 million.
Parent Company and other expenses declined slightly from $16 million to $15 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Total company operating margins rose reflecting the improved profitability of Aflac Japan and Aflac U.S.
both for the second quarter.
Pretax margins rose slightly from 19.3% to 19.5% and the after-tax margin increased slightly from 12.6% to 12.7%.
On an operating basis the tax rate was 34.6% compared with 34.7% a year ago.
Net earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $0.60 compared with $1.23 in 2010.
And realized investment losses were $0.96 a share this year compared with $0.12 in 2010.
During the quarter we realized investment losses of $453 million net of tax.
$118 million were attributable to the sale of our holdings primarily in the various Peripheral Eurozone Perpetual and Financial Securities.
$343 million resulted from our impairments primarily in the Peripheral zone Perpetual and securities of the financial sector.
We also had a $27 million net after-tax investment gain associated with foreign exchange impact and primarily passive derivative activities.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share rose 15.6% to $1.56.
The stronger yen increased operating earnings by $0.11 per diluted share for the quarter.
Excluding the yen's impact operating earnings per share increased 7.4% for the quarter.
Lastly let me comment on the earnings outlook for 2011.
As we mentioned in our Analyst Meeting in May given the continued low interest rate environment especially in Japan along with our concentrated efforts to de-risk the portfolio we expect to increase operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of the yen by 8%.
Assuming an 8% increase in operating earnings per share we would expect to earn $5.97 on a constant currency basis.
If the yen averages $0.80 to $0.85 for the third quarter we would expect operating earnings to be at $1.54 to $1.60 per diluted share.
If we achieve our objective of 8% growth and the yen averages $0.80 to $0.85 for the full year we would expect operating EPS to be somewhere in the area of $6.09 to $6.34 per diluted share.
Now we will turn our attention to your questions.
To be fair to everybody please limit yourself to one question.
And if you would first state your name and your company.
We'll begin taking questions.
Our first question comes from the Jeff Schuman of Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I wanted to talk a little bit about the issue of sort of cash positioning.
You've bumped up the 2012 guidance range a bit and it sounds like that has a lot to do with greater clarity about capital position the fact that you've done the heavy lifting on the portfolio.
So that kind of clarifies the capital position.
But there's also been this issue in terms of how you'd be positioned with cash.
I'm wondering if you can talk about sort of stat earnings for this year how you're set up in terms of regular dividend capacity for next year and maybe what the holding company cash position is post the recent yen debt rate.
This is Kriss and I'll get into that for you Jeff.
The cash position right now at the holding company is good after the recent debt offering.
We've got roughly $1.1 billion $1.2 billion.
We have to make the payment on the maturing Samurai notes of about $400 million in September.
So let's anticipate that and say we've got about $700 million or so with the Life company -- I mean at the holding company.
Having gone through the substantial bulk of the de-risking process from a realized loss perspective we're now looking at our tax projections for the remainder of 2011 and doing cash flow planning for 2011 and '12.
Let me just say that from a cash perspective tax is a significant item that we have to look out for and watch because the realized losses are deductible for tax purposes in Japan and we get a tax benefit from them.
But in the U.S.
in the consolidated return we don't get to take a tax benefit for realized losses unless we have offsetting realized gains.
So what happens from a cash perspective is that you reduce your income in the FSA statements in Japan you get a tax benefit for it.
It reduces the normal repatriation that occurs between Japan and the U.S.
But in the U.S.
we've got to pay the same amount of tax we would have paid if we didn't have the realized losses.
So with a lower foreign tax credit it means more cash is going out of the U.S.
And so we've got a cash management exercise in front of us and we're running through the numbers as we speak.
We'll say that we're doing some -- developing some mitigation strategies that we can use to generate capital gains that we can use to offset some of these realized losses that are otherwise not deductible for tax purposes.
And as you know in the statutory accounting a lot of the taxes were handled pretty much on a cash basis.
There are some nominal deferred tax credits and the like that you can take advantage of but we pretty much reached the limit on our admissible deferred tax credits on the statutory.
And so we're looking more at statutory taxes being incurred on a cash basis.
That didn't totally answer your question in terms of numbers but I don't have the numbers at the moment because we are finalizing the statutory results and running through the tax planning process.
But we are very pleased that we think we've got the bulk of the losses behind us.
I think it'll fare well for us not having to offset the strong operating earnings by realize losses for RBC purposes for solvency margin purposes and the like.
And ultimately our cash position will improve even more.
Our next question comes from Ed Spehar with Bank of America.
I would like to follow up on this line of questioning.
I guess one of the disappointments at the fab meeting I think was the view that we got from management that de-risking and share repurchase were mutually exclusive exercises at least to some extent.
And I guess if we look at where we are today you're saying that de-risking is substantially done and also if we update the uncommitted cash flow analysis that you gave us at the fab meeting the number you came up with then was I think $565 million for this year.
But that assumed no refinancing of debt.
So now we've got $625 million that's coming in that was not assumed in that calculation.
So the uncommitted cash at the holding company now is around $1.2 billion or twice what you guys had said at fab.
So I understand the tax management and everything else but I also know that there's extraordinary dividend capacity.
If you needed to do that I'm sure you could probably do that.
$1.2 billion of uncommitted cash at the holding company at current share price which happy to say is 5% higher than it was yesterday is 26 million shares.
So I was wondering if you can maybe Kriss go in a little bit more detail on this because I think this was obviously a point that a lot of people were focused on.
Ed let me say that if we left the impression that share repurchase and financial de-risking were mutually exclusive then we miscommunicated.
They're very closely linked because they directly affect our ability to generate earnings on a statutory basis and our dividend capacity is -- normal dividend capacity is controlled by statutory earnings less realized losses.
And we think...
I'm sorry Kriss can I stop -- sorry Kriss.
I meant when I said mutually exclusive I meant that you couldn't do both at the same time.
That if you were de-risking you weren't going to be buying back a lot of stock.
Oh well you're correct and that's the point I was trying to make.
So to me they're directly linked.
And when we were at the fab meeting we quite frankly weren't totally sure what the level of financial loss associated with de-risking would be but we aggressively pursued it not only after fab but before fab.
We did a lot of de-risking in the first quarter and we followed it up with more in the second quarter.
So now we've got more visibility.
And so that outlook for share repurchase is significantly improved.
And I'll be able to give you a better update Ed on anticipated share repurchase activity after we complete this cash management exercise we're going through now trying to project our tax position and our cash position and our statutory earnings for the remainder of 2011 taking into account the realized losses that we incurred this quarter.
I can say that from an earnings perspective we don't need to do a lot of share repurchase in the remainder of 2011 to make our earnings target.
And we're somewhat -- we're always conservatively biased when we're looking at meeting our earnings estimates and certainly significant levels of share repurchase bolster earnings capability.
Part of the reason we raised the guidance for 2012 from 0 to 5 to 2 to 5 was we kind of eliminated some of the murkiness associated with the cloud around how much realized loss we would end up taking as part of de-risking and how much share repurchase we were going to be able to do.
I put out there in assumption that we might do no share repurchase in 2012.
But I think that's off the table now.
We'll definitely be able to do some share repurchase if our operating assumptions are met.
But whether we're in a position to apply $1 billion or $2 billion to share repurchase we just hadn't determined yet.
But those are still pretty high numbers because we do still have a fairly uncertain outlook I think as far as other economic developments.
I mean we've got to get the stupid debt deal done in the U.S.
for one thing and who knows how that's going to affect world markets.
But we've assumed that as of this day and with no materially adverse economic developments we're going to be in good shape.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Can I get a better color on the trends in recruiting agents? You had a nice move in the first quarter recruits up 13.5% 10% plus in the second quarter.
And the licensed agents year-over-year are flat right now the licensed sales associates.
So I'm wondering if you maintain this double digit recruiting pace where do you think the delta will be in licensed sales associates over the next 12 months? And if you maintain this recruiting pace where do you think sales can go next year single-digits double-digits? This is Paul.
Let me begin by talking about recruiting.
I must tell you that licensed sales associates is a number that we publish but it's not a number that I manage our business from.
As I've said in years past really beginning about 2005 focused more on average weekly producers the ability to produce the amount that's being produced is kind of the 2 factors that drive our business.
I think Tom and our sales team working with our marketing team has done an awesome job of turning around our total recruiting.
And I think it's 2 consecutive quarters of great recruiting.
It really began back in the end of the third quarter of last year when we set the initiative began communicating it.
I told you at that time it would take a period time to begin to get it turned.
The combination of focus on that topic as well as our DRTV and some of the things that we've done that generated incredibly good results and I'm very happy with where recruiting is.
What I do want to see longer-term is that that recruiting generates both new associate premium as well as average weekly producer growth over the long term.
I'm less concerned about the number of licensed agents.
It's not how many people have a license it's how many people are actually selling our products that makes a difference for us.
So with the weekly average producers kind of flattish in the first half of the year are you concerned about that? I mean I know Dan was saying today's recruits are tomorrow's sales.
I really like that.
So the recruits are big.
Do you think that...
It's a time lag Andrew.
It's a time lag.
I mean my expectation is although there is no guarantee that as we move forward if things are moving in the right direction that average weekly producers should begin to grow.
And so recruits happen first we would train them we'd get them into production and eventually they'll begin to make headway on moving toward being a part of our average weekly producer.
So our recruit and train model should begin to generate that.
[indiscernible] [Technical Difficulty] Our next question...
No.
No he got cut off.
Let me finish.
I don't know if you can bring him back but if not I'll just finish the second part of his question.
He asked about the sales.
And I think it's a fair question.
What I told you at the end of last quarter was we had one data point.
We now have 2 data points and I would much rather see 3 and 4 before I begin to make predictions.
Am I happy with where we are? Yes I'm very happy with where we are.
If you take the first quarter and you take out the additional day it drops it from 6 back to 5 and if you take the extra day and add it to the second quarter it takes it from right at 6 and moves it to 7.
So I'm very happy I think the second quarter was better performance than the first quarter in terms of what I think and I'm hoping to continue to see things move.
Again this is only our second big year in group business.
We don't know how the fourth quarter is going to pan out.
We continue to see positive signs as we move forward.
But the fourth quarter number from last year is a large number.
So I want to see where things go.
I think some time in October if not January I'm going to feel comfortable really talking about things but I think it would be a mistake not to say that momentum is extremely high.
I've been traveling around the country meeting with our sales associates they seem extremely optimistic.
And I think that what we've done with our product portfolio has put us in a place that combined with our product marketing to be very successful going forward.
But it's too early to say that the turn is completely in when you've got the economic factors where they are.
We've dealt in the last few years with the economy being very difficult.
I know this morning we got a good report on jobs supposedly but in reality we're not seeing jobs as optimistic out there in terms of small businesses as they were 180 days ago.
So I want to see what's going to happen.
I think our team is executing well with some performance places.
We can continue to do better.
But at the same time there are economic factors that continue to hang over us and that overhang will dictate how high we can go both the remainder of this year as well as sales in 2012.
Darin Arita with Deutsche Bank.
Had a question on the Aflac Japan's benefit ratio.
It looks like the pace of the child endowment sales is slowing and it sounds like it will continue to trend lower in the second half of this year.
Just per the Japan benefit ratio guidance for 2012 if we think back from the financial analyst briefing in May what level of child endowment sales did that contemplate and how does that compare with the decline in child endowment sales that we're seeing? Darin I think that the financial sales projection anticipated some decline in child endowment sales.
I don't have those sales projections directly in front of me.
But I believe that our actual experience is probably somewhat lower for child endowment sales than we had in the projection partly because Dan and I have been directing Aflac Japan to reduce promotional efforts on child endowment and to increase promotional efforts on both the new cancer product and the WAYS product.
And so we're trying to re-emphasize the desirability of selling the higher margin products.
It's really the lower child endowment margin that's been driving the benefit ratio up some and the overall margin preventing the expansion at the same level we've seen in the past.
So we think the trends are moving in the right direction relative to selling higher margin products.
Let me just leave it at that.
Yes.
The only other comment I would make is on top of all the disaster issues sales trying to all of a sudden get your sales force to also change one of the products they're selling makes it difficult.
But they've achieved it and what you don't see is you see that sales were down 1.2% in endowment for the quarter.
But what you don't see is that April was up May was down and June was down even more and our tracking for July shows it's even down even further.
So they have definitely shifted.
I give our management team at Aflac Japan credit for that.
And as I've said there are other reasons for that.
It's an older product.
It's been out there 2 years.
And basically they've made a pass at everybody and now it's only the newborns.
And in addition to that there's a question of whether or not the government will even keep it or certainly reduce it.
So all in all I feel real good that that's in place in the second half.
We're going to move on to WAYS which I've mentioned has more than 100% increase in the profit margin over the endowment.
Our next question comes from Tom Gallagher with Crdit Suisse.
Just a question on the de-risking.
Just so I'm clear on where things are likely to go going forward Dan it's the comment that your investment losses from a realized loss standpoint are pretty much done here.
Is that because you don't have any intention to further de-risk peripheral Europe because you still have Italy Spain and some Irish exposure? So should we take that comment to mean you don't intend to sell those down at all? Or is it because you do potentially expect to sell some of those positions down but you just don't think you're going to have meaningful losses? I think we don't think we'll have meaningful losses.
The one point that I wanted to make in that speech was that this is the time that we ought to hit everything we could.
I mean we met and then we met again on -- look if we've got it clean the house out get it over with.
And we have 4 others that we considered that were below investment grade.
And we came to the conclusion that they were good.
There was senior your debt on a couple of them.
And so we made that decision that we thought they were all right.
So to the best of our ability unless there's some dramatic change we think the majority of the losses are over.
That isn't to say there may not be some small amount here and there or profit here and there.
But I think it's basically over and that's what we were trying to do was end it by the second quarter.
And we think we've achieved that provided there isn't any major issue that comes forward in the future.
And so Dan should we take that to mean there won't be any more meaningful sales? Or is there still likely to be meaningful sales but you just don't foresee substantial losses? I think we'll evaluate each position and look at it from an optimistic perspective of what we think might be out there.
Certainly we moved away and changed our focus to where -- as you know we've moved away from financials.
You've seen that cut dramatically.
You've seen us move away in terms of the PIIGS and not made any investments there.
So the numbers as a percent of the portfolio continue to drop and will continue to drop going forward.
If we were offered opportunities to change investments in other areas we'll evaluate it and see what it offers.
We are truly going through a restructuring now and viewing ourself from a pre-financial crisis to a post-financial crisis of our investments.
And everything's on the table of looking at what will be our best strategy going forward to manage this company.
And I really believe our operational issues are minor.
I think we're running on especially consider the economies I think we're doing great operationally.
So my biggest issue out there is investments.
And we have a board that has an investment committee that is very laser-focused on this.
And you're going to see us concentrating and giving more information to keep it as transparent as we can everything we're doing and how we're doing it going forward.
Let me just say that I think Dan said we're looking at things from an optimistic point of view.
He really meant opportunistic.
I'm sorry.
That was one thing that I kind of tripped over there.
But we're looking at things from an opportunistic point of view being able to do the right thing at the right time.
Otherwise that was a strong statement.
Our next question comes from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
I wanted to take you back in time a bit and maybe you could give us some perspective.
Kriss you alluded earlier to the folks in Washington and some risks we've got here.
And you and Dan and others at Aflac were in your positions or at least in senior positions when Japan lost its AAA rating some time ago.
So I was wondering if you could -- given that experience if you could give us some of the lessons you learned from that event how did it impact Aflac's results if at all.
Any observations that might be helpful to us in thinking of what a U.S.
downgrade from AAA to AA might mean.
Well I don't believe it had any significant effect on us directly John.
I know that we were rated AA at the time and the rating agencies told us that we couldn't be rated higher than the government of the country where we had our principal operations.
And so that was one indirect effect.
It really had no significant effect on JGB yields that I was aware of.
I'd say the yields went up somewhat but so did the [indiscernible] went up a lot when Japan got down rated.
So I just alluded to the budget dilemma in Washington because my big concern is not so much the effect on our U.S.
Treasuries but what overflowing effect it might have to Europe and even Japan particularly if it impacted interest rates in Europe or economic conditions in Europe which I doubt that it would.
But anyway we don't have any specific major concerns about the budget dilemma in Washington.
I just used that as an example of economic uncertainty that seems to crop up every day.
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
And just one real quick one for Jerry if I could just thinking about the exposure that remains to Spain both sovereign and financials as well as Italy can you just give us your current perspective? I mean since the end of June clearly CDS spreads have widened.
Those remain at least relative to your equity base still pretty meaningful exposures.
So any update there? Look I think they are meaningful exposures but I think a lot of context needs to be applied when you look at these exposures.
Take Spain for example.
Of our government exposures 70% of those exposures have below investment grade put language.
And that is a provision that's unique to the exposures we've negotiated.
In our non-government non-financial exposures in Spain about 50% of our electric utilities which is really the major component of our exposure to nongovernment spending exposure have leveraged and/or interest coverage covenants of our nonutility industrial exposures [indiscernible] about half of them have below investment grade puts on them.
There's a lot of the context it's not immediately evident when you look at our exposure to Spain.
It's a similar situation in Italy.
I would point out in Italy our financial exposure in Italy is extremely low.
It's $183 million and that is senior indebtedness and I don't think anybody is looking at burden sharing for senior debt particularly in view of the recent releases as a result of the Basel III pronouncements of last week.
We do have direct exposure to the government of Italy which we're comfortable with in our utilities and industrials.
Our utilities exposure in Italy of over 70% of those exposures have below investment grade put language.
And our industrial exposure about 15% have a similar covenant protection to what I just described in Spain.
So in the aggregate it's not enough to just look at what the numbers are but what the protections are that we have and individual credits that are nongovernment in both countries we're very comfortable with.
Our next question was from J.
Gelb [ph] of Barclays Capital.
I wanted to touch base on a few things.
First on the outlook for new sales in Japan.
It essentially implies that you're looking for a 4% to 5% year-over-year decline in the back half of 2011 to get to your guidance.
And looking at past trends it doesn't appear that link new sales in Japan always decline in the back half.
So I'm just trying to understand why you feel you might be down year-over-year in the back half? Yes.
We made the projection earlier for the remainder of the year we assumed that -- we think that factors into the consideration and particularly that ones we are concerned.
And now we didn't change those numbers in each country but the more we see that the actual sales conditions we are simply getting more comfortable with the projections.
So that's why we increased that projection to some extent.
I think the other comment I would make it's the fourth quarter we're worried about.
The third quarter I think will have a nice increase.
But I think the fourth quarter our numbers were so big.
I think it was the biggest quarter in the company's history.
Two fourth quarters in a row so we have 2 years.
And that's our real issue.
If we know that -- it's not the trending down us much as it is the comparison to the previous years.
So we'll have to watch it and see.
But there's no trend that we think is changing in terms of the projection of our sales going forward.
It's simply the comparisons of the year before that's our worry.
And comparisons to the year before that.
The fourth quarter in 2010 and 2009 were record-breaking quarters.
I see.
Okay.
And then more broadly is it fair to say that pretax operating earnings growth for the U.S.
could be faster going forward than Japan in local currency? Right now our projections for '11 and '12 have been growing at approximately the same rate.
It is possible that U.S.
could start growing faster than Japan because more of the U.S.
premium income is first year premium as opposed to -- it's about 33% first year in the U.S.
compared to about 9% first year in Japan.
So the U.S.
is more reactive to changes in new sales and earnings directly follow or in premium.
So it's possible that if U.S.
gets good new sales that'll convert to premiums over the course of the year and the growth rates could be faster in the U.S.
than Japan.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James and Associates.
Inc.</strong> Question for Paul.
Paul the group has gone great through the agents.
I was hoping that maybe you could talk to or maybe give some indication of what kind of traction you're getting in brokerages.
Steve that's be great to talk about it.
You're right.
The field force we did comment on in Dan's comments it was doing extremely well in selling the group products.
And I think that has been the greater surprise to us.
I think all along we assumed that group products would sell well through the broker market.
As I've said since we launched our broker initiative really going full time in 2009 and all the implementations we've made things continue to go in the right direction.
We're moving.
We're growing and we're seeing positive growth in that.
I feel confident that we continue to build these relationships.
Relationships on the local level have long since been something Aflac has done.
We wrote almost $200 million for several years leading up to launching of our broker initiative.
The relationships at the regional level are coming on faster.
It's just a level of our ability to get in and out of the brokerage offices.
And then relationships on a national level have done well in terms of our procurement on the corporate level and now we're beginning to move them down toward the producer level.
So do I feel good about what's going on? I think we're executing a plan I think we're moving in the right direction I think we could always continue to find ways to operationally improve.
But I'm still confident that the group business will continue to be something that opens up the broker market for us.
And our agents that are selling that business is really just icing on the cake in terms of our ability to grow.
But it just -- we really point that out to you all to show you more that the group business isn't a single channel move.
It's something that applies for both the broker channel as well as the field force channel and has really reinvigorated a lot of things in our business.
Okay I think we've reached the top of the hour.
So I'd like to thank everybody for your questions and participating this morning.
If you'd like to follow up with any questions later on we'll be in the office today and give us a call.
Thanks so much.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
Welcome to the Aflac Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor Relations.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Jerry Jeffery Senior Vice President of Fixed Income; and Toru Tonoike who's President and COO of Aflac Japan who's joining us from Tokyo.
Before we start this morning let me remind you that some statements in the teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they're prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and our operations in Japan and the U.S.
I'll then follow-up with a few financial highlights for the quarter and the first 9 months and then we'll be taking your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased with Aflac's overall financial and operational performance in the third quarter.
I believe we've established a solid foundation toward achieving our annual operating earnings growth and capital strength objectives.
I'll begin this morning with a review of our operations in Japan.
Aflac Japan generated strong financial results for both the third quarter and the first 9 months of the year.
Revenue growth in yen rose 4.8% for the quarter and 4.1% for the first 9 months.
Although investment yields declined on new money we saw solid earnings growth for the quarter and for the first 9 months.
We are particularly pleased with the tremendous sales momentum in the quarter.
The new annualized premium sales rose 22.2% to JPY 42.3 billion for the quarter which significantly exceeded our expectations.
Even more impressive production in the third quarter set all-time quarterly records.
For the first 9 months of the year total new annualized premium sales rose 13.9%.
Third quarter bank channel sales by far exceeded our expectations generating JPY 14.5 billion in production.
That represents an increase of 146.6% over the third quarter of 2010 and a 90.7% increase over the second quarter of 2011.
Bank sales in the third quarter accounted for 34.4% of total sales.
We are proud of Aflac Japan's outstanding sales results.
This is particularly true following the challenges from the devastating earthquake and tsunami.
Keep in mind that for several months after the disaster Aflac Japan shifted sales and marketing resources.
That included relocating both people and budget from the nonbank channel to the disaster-stricken areas.
Some of the negative impact from this natural disaster that held back our traditional sales force was masked by the strong bank sales in the second and third quarter.
Let me remind you how the bank sales progressed.
As I mentioned we believe that more banks would step up their effort in selling Aflac products once other banks experienced success and that's exactly what happened.
While shinkin and regional banks were early adapters in terms of selling our products we've seen new annualized premium dramatically increase in the mega banks who started selling the products.
These strong bank sales reflect Aflac Japan's impressive ability to develop relevant products such as WAYS our unique hybrid whole-life product that appeals to banks and Japanese consumers alike.
WAYS has been a primary driver of Aflac Japan's remarkable sales increase.
As you are aware the average premium for our WAYS policies sold through the banks the primary distributor and outlet for the product is about 10x the average premium for the cancer and medical product.
That makes WAYS a very strong contributor to Aflac Japan's top line growth that has contributed to the continued rapid growth of bank sales in 2011.
WAYS generated a third quarter sales increase of 362.8% for the same period in 2010 and a 99.3% over the second quarter of 2011.
Sales of WAYS accounted for 31.7% of Aflac Japan's total sales in the third quarter.
Without the discounted advanced premium option where policyholders pay all their premiums upfront the profit margin for WAYS is about 14% which is more than double the profit margin for child endowment.
With the discounted advanced premium option WAYS profit margin is enhanced around 18%.
It's important to note that 90% of the customers at the bank elect to pay premiums upfront through this payment option.
Sales of cancer insurance were solid particularly WAYS (sic) [DAYS] the new base cancer product introduced in March WAYS Plus (sic) [DAYS Plus] which upgrades older cancer policies.
In the third quarter new annualized premium for the cancer insurance rose 8.5%.
What's even more telling however is the number of cancer policies sold on a stand-alone basis increased an impressive 32.7%.
Clearly the success of DAYS has been somewhat overshadowed by the lower average premium which is about 15% less than the older base policy.
The premium difference is largely due to the fact that the new policy does not have cash surrender value option.
As our traditional sales force focused on selling the new cancer product medical sales declined.
Despite this decline the medical category still accounts for 25 -- 20% of our total sales.
Importantly we maintained our position as the #1 seller of cancer and medical products in Japan.
That affirms Aflac's reputation as a strong product innovator and trusted brand.
The solid platform we've established with these 2 pillar products has allowed us to leverage our competitive advantages such as branding and administrative efficiencies.
As anticipated third quarter sales of child endowment product continued to decline for the second consecutive quarter posting a decrease of 8% in the quarter.
For the remainder of the year we expect child endowment sales to continue declining as the distribution channels focus on selling WAYS and our new cancer product DAYS.
Also keep in mind that we're selling the child endowment product for more than 2 years so we've already cycled through the first major pass at selling this product to the most eligible targeted marketed families with young children.
As we look to the remainder of the year if sales in the fourth quarter are flat to the fourth quarter of 2010 our expectation would be that sales would increase 10.1% for the year and I am confident we will achieve that or better.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operation.
We are very pleased with Aflac's U.S.
performance from both a financial and a sales perspective.
Revenues rose 4% for the quarter and 3.7% for the first 9 months.
Persistency continued to be strong.
While earnings growth was down slightly for the quarter earnings for the 9 months grew 2.7% which was in line with our expectations.
Aflac U.S.
generated a 5% increase in new annualized premium sales for the quarter and a 5.7% increase for the first 9 months.
These results had benefited significantly from the addition of group products to Aflac U.S.
product portfolio.
In fact group product sales have exceeded our expectations for both the third quarter and the year.
Our sales and marketing areas which are more closely aligned than ever have synchronized their efforts by creating strategies that continue to benefit our sales results.
You will recall that in January we rolled out Smart Launch which is a coordinated sales and marketing effort.
With these campaigns we analyze our existing accounts to determine which accounts are most likely to need a particular product.
We then align our field force resources to strategically and effectively target these accounts with that product or products.
Following the success of the first quarter launch of our dental product we rolled out the Smart Launch to promote critical care and recovery product mid-second quarter.
As a result sales of the critical care and recovery were up 11.9% in the third quarter.
We will maintain this successful initiative to promote more products.
On the distribution side of the strategy field force recruiting continued to benefit from targeted national advertising campaign generating a 10.4% increase in recruits for the third quarter.
This marked the third consecutive quarter of double-digit recruiting gains generating an 11.4% increase for the first 9 months.
Also our distribution strategy has grown through the addition of group product platforms which has also helped us make inroads into the growing our market initiatives with brokers.
It's too early to say we turned the corner.
However I believe that given the challenging economic environment our success in expanding our distribution network and achieving a sales increase of more than 5% for the first 9 months is outstanding for the U.S.
Now let me update you on Aflac Incorporated results.
Overall we're pleased with Aflac's consolidated performance.
Operating earnings per diluted share rose 14.5% to $1.66 for the quarter an increase of 15.4% to $4.86 for the first 9 months.
Excluding the benefit of the stronger yen operating earnings per diluted share rose 8.3% for the quarter and 8.1% for the first 9 months keeping us in line with the 2011 earnings per share objective of an 8% increase before the impact of the yen.
Our better-than-expected results in the quarter benefited from the continued expense management especially in Japan.
Turning to our investment activities.
I want to update you on what we've accomplished in the third quarter.
As you will recall we stated in the second quarter that we believed our proactive investment de-risking program is largely behind us from a realized loss perspective.
That assumed that we live in a static world.
However we obviously operate in a dynamic economic environment which means we need to be especially vigilant in monitoring our portfolio and this is exactly what we've done and will continue to do.
Let me remind you how successful we've been in substantially de-risking our investment portfolio from January of 2008 and the end of the third quarter.
Over this period we have dramatically cut our holdings in foreign and financial investments in the PIIG (sic) [PIIGS] countries from 5.9% to 2.4% of the total portfolio.
We've also lowered our investments in perpetual securities from 14.7% to 7.4% which is about half.
I'd like to point out that none of the perpetual securities we currently own are in the PIIG (sic) [PIIGS] countries.
Additionally our investment in financial exposures have been meaningfully reduced from 42% to the total of 28% in the portfolio.
I also want to update you on some of the steps that we've taken to mitigate interest rate risk impacting our solvency margin.
First of all we sold a portion of our JGB holdings classified as available for sale.
We then purchased the same amount of securities and placed these purchased securities as held to maturity.
Furthermore all new money purchased of the JGBs this quarter have been placed in held-to-maturity category.
Recognizing that our economic environment is continually evolving we are paying particular attention to the investment governance through enhanced risk management and investing policies.
We will continue to closely assess the securities we hold and if we determine they are no longer appropriate for the investment portfolio we'll take action and move them off the balance sheet.
With both operating segments doing well I've devoted most of my time this year to the investment area.
Our objective is for Aflac to be a world-class investment organization that pays particular attention to the needs of the insurance operations through the effective ALM and capital adequacy management as well as the expectation of shareholders through investment income growth.
It goes without saying that this objective is in the best interest of the policyholders.
The changes prompted by the financial crisis has highlighted the need for the enhanced global analysis and state-of-the-art investment systems.
In response to this our priority is to add to the talent of the investment management team and improve the overall investment function.
At the Financial Analyst Briefing in May we told you as far as our investment function goes everything was on the table.
We felt the first thing we needed to do was to hire a Global Chief Investment Officer.
Ultimately out of 100 candidates we screened we selected Eric Kirsch.
Through his 3 decades of industry experience that includes Bankers Trust Deutsche Asset Management and Goldman Sachs Eric has proven to be a very strong team builder and leader.
I think that having the expertise and presence on the ground in New York is an integral part of Aflac's future investment success.
Eric understands the investment risk and the challenges we face and we think he's an excellent addition to the Aflac team.
He officially joins Aflac on November 1.
And we expect that by the time we release fourth quarter earnings he will have evaluated the investment function and be able to expand on Aflac's future global strategy.
Now let me make a few comments about our capital position.
As we've communicated over the past several years maintaining a strong risk-based capital or RBC ratio remains a top priority for us.
Although we have not yet completed our statutory financial statements for the third quarter we estimate the RBC will be within the range of 500 to 540 at the end of September.
Additionally we estimate that the solvency margin ratio will be within the range of 555 to 575 based on the revised calculation methods for the quarter ending September 30 2011.
These strong capital ratios demonstrate our commitment to maintaining financial strength on behalf of the policyholders and the bondholders.
Our strong capital position has enabled us to increase our cash dividend to shareholders for the 29th consecutive year.
I am very pleased with this action by the Board of Directors which increases the cash dividend by 10%.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at a rate that is in line or somewhat better than the earnings per share growth.
I believe dividends are an important component of the value we provide to investors.
Another way to reward shareholders is through share repurchase program.
In the third quarter of 2011 we purchased 1 million shares bringing the number of shares purchased for the first 9 months to 5.1 million.
We anticipate purchasing 6 million shares in 2011.
And in 2012 we anticipate our share repurchase activity will increase.
With 3 quarters of the year complete we continue to believe we are well positioned for another year of solid financial performance.
Our earnings outlook for the year remains unchanged.
Our objective is an 8% increase in earnings per share excluding the impact of the yen.
As such we expect fourth quarter earnings per share excluding the impact of the yen to increase 7.6%.
Our fourth quarter earnings will be impacted by higher expenses particularly in marketing and IT initiatives following 3 quarters where we've held back on the spending particularly in Japan.
Looking ahead I want to reiterate our expectation that 2012 operating earnings per diluted share will increase 2% to 5% on the currency neutral basis.
We anticipate this 2012 earnings per share objective will establish a new baseline for earnings growth.
This 2% to 5% range reflects the integration of investment losses and the low interest rate associated with the proactive investment de-risking program on a GAAP basis.
Remember we told you we believed our proactive investment de-risking program was substantially completed in the second quarter and we continue to believe that today.
I am already looking for 2013 and beyond when we expect the rate of earnings growth to improve over 2012.
Hopefully all the major de-risking is over.
I am very pleased with Aflac's financial and operating results for the quarter in the first 9 months.
And I can tell you the global financial challenges that we've seen especially with the changes in the investment environment have only served to reenergize my enthusiasm as CEO of the company and I still wouldn't trade places with anybody as CEO in the world.
Robin? Thanks Dan.
Let me briefly go through some third quarter numbers starting with Aflac Japan.
Beginning with the top line in yen terms revenues were up 4.8% for the quarter.
Investment income was up 0.9%.
The persistency rate improved in the quarter with the annualized rate excluding annuities for the first 9 months of 2011 at 94.4% compared with 94.1% a year ago.
In terms of quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio to the total premiums rose slightly over the year.
It was 70.0% in the quarter compared to 70.4% a year ago.
The expense ratio for the quarter was 18.7% down from 19.2% in the third quarter of 2010 reflecting a delay in spending on several projects that will be started later in the year including IT and marketing initiatives that Dan alluded to.
Reflecting the lower benefit and expense ratios the pretax profit margin rose slightly from 21.2% to 21.7% in the quarter.
With the expansion of the margin pretax earnings increased 7.5% in yen terms.
For the quarter we invested our cash flow in yen securities at 2.12%.
Including dollars the blended rate was 2.26%.
The portfolio yield was 3.42% at the end of September down 9 basis points from the end of June and down 22 basis points from a year ago.
Now let me turn to Aflac U.S.
Total revenues rose 4.0% for the quarter and the persistency rate improved significantly and was about 76.0% in the quarter.
The annualized rate for the 9 months was 75.9% up from 72.6% a year ago.
The increase in persistency in large part reflects a return to a more normalized number following the loss of a large account at the end of 2009 resulting in the lower-than-usual persistency numbers throughout 2010.
In looking at operating ratios for the quarter the benefit ratio to total premiums increased over last year.
It was 59.1% in the quarter compared to 58.1% a year ago.
The higher benefit ratio is largely the result of increased claims in the quarter reflecting a return to a more normal utilization rate after claims in Q1 and Q2 were unusually low.
The operating expense ratio increased slightly going from 30.5% a year ago to 31.1%.
IT and other expenses increased slightly during the quarter in line with our expectations.
The profit margin for the quarter was 16.4% compared to 17.7% a year ago.
As a result pretax operating earnings declined 3.8% for the quarter.
In terms of U.S.
investments the new money yield for the quarter was 5.77% versus 5.69% a year ago and the yield on the portfolio at the end of September was 6.72% down 4 basis points from the second quarter and down 24 basis points from a year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter.
As you will have read in the press release we will adopt the new DAC guidelines on January 1 2012.
Based on December 31 2010 the retrospective adoption of this accounting standard will result in the estimated after-tax cumulative charge to the company's retained earnings of approximately $500 million to $700 million or 4.5% to 6.3% of shareholders' equity as of December 31 2010.
We also estimate the adoption of the standard will result in an immaterial increase in income in '11 '12 and all the preceding years impacted by the retrospective adoption.
These numbers largely reflect the nature of our business with our sales associates being 100% commission-based and approximately 70% of our DAC expenses that we capitalize are commissions.
The remaining 30% is associated with administrative costs.
And of these administrative unit costs 75% of these will continue to be capitalized under the new DAC guidelines.
Noninsurance interest expense in the third quarter was $44 million compared to $37 million a year ago.
This higher interest expense primarily reflects the impact from our debt issuance of $750 million senior notes 2010 in 3Q 2010 and the Samurai notes that we issued in July of this year.
Parent Company and other expenses increased from $11 million to $15 million in the third quarter.
Total company operating margins showed a slight increase reflecting improved profitability of Aflac Japan and pretax margin went from 19.4% to 19.6%.
After-tax margin improved slightly from 12.7% to 12.8%.
On an operating basis the tax rate was 34.5% compared with 34.6% a year ago.
Net earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $1.59 compared to $1.46 in 2010.
Realized net investment after-tax losses were $0.07 per share this quarter compared to $0.01 share gain in 2010.
During the quarter we realized investment gains of approximately $200 million net of tax from the sale of several securities including the remaining holdings of our Portuguese financial institutions; a portion of our U.S.
Treasury holdings that we've sold; and a part of our swap program with JGBs in which we sold a portion of JGBs that were classified as available for sale repurchased these and put them in held to maturity.
We also had $108 million net investment realized losses attributable to impairments of certain debt and perpetual securities.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share rose 14.5% to $1.66.
The stronger yen increased operating earnings by $0.09 per diluted share for the quarter.
Excluding the yen impact operating earnings per share increased 8.3% for the quarter.
Lastly let me comment on the earnings outlook for 2011.
As you've heard Dan say we reaffirmed our objective for 2011 of an 8% increase in operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of the yen.
With that in mind if operating earnings per share increased 8% for the year and the yen averages 75 to 80 for the remainder of the year the fourth quarter we would expect operating EPS to be for the fourth quarter $1.45 to $1.52.
Now that compares to First Call estimates of $1.55.
Remember what Dan said.
In both the U.S.
and Japan we expect IT expenditures related and also marketing and advertising expenditures to increase substantially in the fourth quarter.
Using the same foreign currency exemption also we would expect for the year operating earnings will be $6.30 to $6.37 per diluted share.
Now we're going to turn to your questions.
To be fair to everybody please remember to limit yourself to one question and only one follow-up that relates to your initial question.
Now we'll be able -- we will be happy to take your one question.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jay Gelb of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch base on the Japan sales growth outlook.
First I just want to clarify when you're talking about 10% new sales growth that's for all of Japan for 2011.
Is that correct? That is correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned potentially flat sales growth overall in Japan for the fourth quarter of 2011.
But given the momentum in WAYS we're doubled on a linked quarter basis in the third quarter.
It would have to drop by a significant amount in 4Q.
Is that what you expect? I think what you want to know is if fourth quarter equals third quarter which was the biggest quarter in the company's history sales would be up 14% for the fourth quarter which would give us a 14% increase for the year.
I'm not willing to commit to that.
What I do believe is we will exceed last year's production which at the beginning of the year I didn't think we would be able to do.
Now how much better we'll do than that I'm not sure.
But that gives you a range to know.
Our next question is from Randy Binner of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just on the credit side I was wondering if the recent European deal could affect how statutory impairments are taken and what I mean is there maybe haircuts locked in over there.
I don't think those haircuts relate to bonds you own directly but there is a difference generally associated with the hybrids between GAAP and statutory impairments.
I just wanted to get some color if the situation over there now may change the way that the GAAP versus stat works in the credit portfolio.
Randy this is Ken.
Let me start the answer on this and we'll see where it goes.
Just as a reminder the different impairment treatments for perpetual securities is on a GAAP basis only and it's purely price based.
So it will largely depend on how the perpetual Tier 1 and upper Tier 2 assets are valued in the market on a go-forward basis.
There were a couple of the securities one in particular that we would have impaired under the equity model this way -- this quarter but we did have credit concerns which is why we took credit impairments for -- on a GAAP FSA and a stat basis.
So I think it's a little bit too early to see how this all plays out.
We're all certainly encouraged that there was a deal struck and that they're continuing to work the problem.
Fortunately for us we don't have any direct Greek exposure any longer.
But again we'll just have to monitor it.
I don't think it will have any direct impact though on how we take the impairments unless the credit views change.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And a quick follow-up is there an update that you have on the overall difference in the hybrids between GAAP and the stat impairment? There -- I don't have that number in my head.
I'd have to -- we'll have to get that and I'll ask Robin to pass it on.
Our next question is from Ed Spehar of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Kriss I was hoping you could provide some more detail on the outlook for free cash flow for the company not just this year and next but sort of on a more normalized basis.
And I think there is some controversy about the relevance of U.S.
statutory earnings for dividend capacity for the company.
And so I was wondering if you could give us some sense of how to think about this.
And just free cash flow meaning what you could use to buy back stock and pay dividends over time.
Okay.
Ed let me just start out with that and I'll try not to make the answer too long.
But let me kind of say that our current outlook is that we will spend and -- I think you're getting primarily to share repurchase.
As you know we declared an increase in dividend of about 10% this quarter.
That's going to take our dividend expenses paid out of the parent to around $600 million a year.
Recall that we haven't changed the dividend at all since the financial crisis started.
We've increased the dividend every year and share repurchase has been the variable in our utilization of free cash flow.
Historically pre-financial crisis our share repurchase commitment approximated the amount we were able to get out of Japan via profit repatriation.
And I think that the amount of profit repatriation will continue to be a primary driver of the funds available for share repurchase.
Now to some extent statutory capacity and profit repatriation are highly correlated.
Japan does form the substantial percentage of our statutory earnings but there are some things that we are not able to allocate to Japan like corporate interest expense and shareholder dividends that are funded in large part out of statutory cash flow not counting profit repatriation.
So let me just say that in our minds we correlate proper repatriation and funds available for share repurchase quite significantly.
I was pointing out to Robin just this morning that 2007 we repurchased about $575 million of stock and we basically doubled down in 2008 and bought almost $1.5 billion when you guys convinced me we had excess capital late 2007 early 2008.
And then the financial crisis hit and everything changed.
And when we started taking realized losses on investment securities that impacted FSA-basis earnings and stat earnings and all earnings.
And we had to cut back on profit repatriation and therefore we had to cut back on share repurchase.
And we didn't do any share repurchase in 2009 and not again until the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2010.
We have resumed share repurchase in 2011 as you well know.
And this year we intend -- we expect to buy about 6 million shares and spend about $300 million.
Next year based on our current best estimates we anticipate repatriating somewhere around JPY 45 billion which at today's exchange rate should approximate about $600 million.
And we would expect to commit that amount to share repurchase.
Now I'll say I want to get away from quoting a number of shares.
I'd rather go toward dollar amounts because -- at current exchange rates so to speak because the share price has been volatile.
And I'll let you guys make an estimate of what you think the price we buy is going to be the price per share so I'll let you determine the number of shares.
But guidance as far as share repurchase at say the mid-70s in the yen-dollar exchange rate is going to be around $600 million or better stated on a yen basis about JPY 45 billion.
In 2013 we think we can double approximately our profit repatriation to about the JPY 90 billion to JPY 95 billion level.
So what that means is that we'll be able to double share repurchase between 2011 and 2012 and double it again in 2013.
Right now that's the best guidance I can give you.
And I thought about trying to get into the details behind all this but Ed I'd need a 1/2 hour session with flip charts and all that and they won't give it to me right now.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up is that level of -- if you think about that level of repatriation in 2013 is that a normal level? I mean when we think about cash flow how do we think about a normal free cash flow level relative to what we see which is the U.S.
statutory earnings number? Yes I would say it's relatively normal.
I think it's somewhat conservative perhaps.
Keep in mind that our past allocation or distribution of free cash flow has been roughly somewhere between 1/3 dividend 2/3 share repurchase or maybe a 70-30 split.
So I think you can think of normal share repurchase as being approximately twice our dividends assuming that we have no substantial increase or no substantial investment -- additional investment losses.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on that Kriss.
That was $1.2 billion in 2013 maybe $600 million in 2012.
Yes.
That's right.
Or Steven I said really JPY 45 billion and roughly JPY 95 billion in '13 is our current target.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'm going to cheat here and I'm going to ask another little follow-up from the first question.
Maybe Toru could address this.
But the sales in Japan the mega banks I guess I'm wondering how much of this is really like when the insurance companies first came into the market low-hanging fruit for the mega banks.
And then how do you kind of think about that relative to expansion if you will to even more branches because you're still not in any way shape or form saturated the number of branches to the best of my understanding.
Let me answer to your question this way.
Out of the third quarter this year about 80% of the total branches of mega banks have sold at least one policy per month.
And that sounds -- may sound a large number but if you think about that one policy during the month is not a big number.
And mega banks employees are getting very used to that selling insurance products.
So I think there's a lot of potential in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I may just for Jerry.
Jerry can you talk to Dexia not necessarily what you did there but kind of the process? I'm interested because I'm having a hard time figuring out what exactly was guaranteed and whether or not this may be a template going forward for other banks that may need help.
Well in Dexia you picked a particularly complex example but our exposure to Dexia has been included in the Dexia Bank Belgium part of the agreement.
And as you may know there are 3 separate entities that are emerging from the Dexia organization.
Dexia Bank Belgium is actually now a bank which is owned by Belgium and it is a deposit-taking institution.
It is not the so-called bad bank which migrated into the French -- a couple of the French agencies picked that up.
So it's still very early days but the characteristics of it is this is a Belgian-owned banking institution and a deposit-taking institutions which we view as a positive step.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I get that Jerry.
I guess my question is is there some type of visibility with regards to how the types of debt that you have there are being treated? For example I've had people tell me that everything is guaranteed.
You would expect a -- well you can't do it under GAAP but you would expect a write-up as opposed to a write-down.
And obviously that didn't happen.
So I'm trying to figure out how exactly your debt will be treated by Belgium or the European common market whoever it is.
Well there's no visibility that the debt will be guaranteed by the government if that's what you're after.
And it's owned by the government but not guaranteed.
Steven our accountants are really -- they don't let us write things up that have been impaired either.
So we don't get that benefit.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No no I understand that Kriss.
Okay.
And Steven one last thing on the sales for the bank especially the mega banks.
We've got one mega bank that's coming on strong in the fourth and first quarter.
And then we will have pretty well covered the mega banks to a great degree.
Toru said they can continue to grow but your question was did they -- is it a surge? And the answer is yes.
The surge is going on right now to some degree.
Our next question is from Andrew Kligerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> In the press release there's a quote that goes "The outstanding sales results" -- and we're talking about Japan.
"The Outstanding sales results in 2011 will create difficult comps in 2012." And I'm wondering if I should read into that that maybe sales might even be down in 2012.
Is that the right read? No.
It's just too early for us to tell at this point because I don't know what the bank channel is going to pull in in the fourth quarter.
And what I'm saying is is that the third quarter came in so much better than we ever dreamed with the 22% increase that we're trying right now to gauge that and it'll take us.
But I'm putting on notice that the comps are so difficult that it creates some issues for us that we're worried about.
And so we'll have to monitor it and see.
But I do expect it continue to be strong in the fourth quarter and certainly the first quarter because remember they set their objectives on a 12-month basis.
It starts April 1 so they won't tell us what their projections are.
But I can say that what their projections were they far exceeded what they thought.
And so I will have to look to the bank channel as a separate channel going forward.
I think as I mentioned the nonbank channels a lot of the expenses that occurred -- because remember 5% of our production came from the affected area.
We put a lot of additional funds and resources there to help the people so we had to tighten the budget in other places.
We continue to let the money flow at the bank channel.
So I expect next year not to have that resource issue in terms of money.
So the nonbank channel -- so we're going to break the 2 out for you to let you look at it.
And hopefully we'll have a lot better insight on the fourth quarter conference call to be able to tell you what 2012 looks like.
Toru do you have any other comments? No.
I don't think so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so then with the WAYS product now becoming what appears to be the leader in terms of Aflac sales 10x the premium of the other products you mentioned that 14% to 18% margin there it's lower than your other products.
So when I look at the total benefits divided by total revenues in Japan you're at 59.6.
A year ago you were at 59.6 again.
Should I assume that we're kind of done with the improvements in this benefit ratio that we're going to see something a little flatter or even maybe going up? I think in line with our guidance that we provided at the FAB meeting we said the 2012 benefit ratio might go up between flat and 50 basis points.
We have had more production of WAYS than we built into our projection but probably less child endowment.
And child endowment was the biggest drag on that benefit ratio improvement.
WAYS though does have a benefit ratio that's higher than health but its profit margin is a lot closer to health than child endowment was.
So what I think is you're going to see some modest deterioration in the margin I wouldn't expect more than 1% but somewhat faster increases in revenue than you would otherwise have seen if we were producing only health business.
And it is adding to the total profit of the company and I think our profit guidance is remaining unchanged and we do expect 2013 to be on an uptrend.
Andrew this is Ken.
Just another side to that remember that with the higher premium life contracts like child endowment and WAYS the expenses are lower as a percentage of revenues.
So somewhat offsetting the higher benefit ratio will be a lower expense ratio which is why you won't see too much change in the margins.
And just to prove that we're moving away from the child endowment one of the mega banks that has just decided to go full-blown for us we've encouraged them to just introduce WAYS and not fool with child endowment and they agreed to do so.
So there's an example of where we're shifting to the product that could be 18%.
Because remember I said 90% of the policies that are sold with WAYS in the banks are sold with the advanced premium.
So that's going to be much better for us that they won't be fooling with that.
So we're gradually moving away from that.
But we haven't stopped it -- the endowment because we still write with WAYS an endowment for every policy we sell.
Or I should say for every 5 policies we sell we add a cancer or a medical with it.
Our next question is from Colin Devine of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if we could talk a little bit about the other sales channels in Japan both the affiliate corporate and then the individual independent.
In your traditional sort of corporate agencies I guess they've now declined for the 14th consecutive quarter.
Perhaps you can talk a little bit about what's going on there.
And is that just a channel that perhaps run its course? And then the other one on the individual independents it seems pretty much every quarter now the tails are growing at a much slower pace than associates.
And I'm not sure what's happening there unless what you're reporting as licensed associates may also include the bank reps.
Maybe we can just get some clarification.
Toru you want to start on that? Yes let me comment on that.
The traditional agents both corporate and -- affiliated corporate and individuals are not doing very well this year.
They're affected to some extent by the earthquake and the tsunami which happened in March this year.
As Dan mentioned 5% of our business came from that affected area.
And that -- a major part of that 5% was used to be sold by these traditional agents.
That's one reason.
And also after the earthquake for some period of time their business was disrupted through that limitation on the usage of the supply of the electricity and the disrupted traffic lines et cetera.
And so this year -- and also many of the corporate affiliate agents lost their opportunities to do the group marketing typically done in early April.
So many factors have affected them negatively this year.
So if you take out those negative factors I think their performance this year is not -- is better than it seems to be.
So we're trying to reenergize the corporate affiliates as well as the individuals.
So hopefully they can start growing again in the next year and going forward.
And I was looking up the number of individual corporate agencies hit an all-time high in the third quarter to 18 091 so that's from 17 759 in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I thought the corporate affiliates were at 1 862.
Isn't that what's in the...
It's individual and independent corporate.
Corporate affiliated are 1 862 which is down slightly but...
Research Division</strong> So they're the ones that have shrunk for 14 quarters and I was just trying to understand what was going on there.
Well I think that to some degree the other distribution channels have had some impact on them that creating this is not new now but the individual agents certainly affected it to some degree and then the bank channels affect it to some degree as well.
So I think all of that together has had some impact.
But I've said our greatest asset is probably a liability in terms of percentage growth with the corporate agencies because it was so big in the early years that it doesn't play as big a role today.
Colin this is Ken.
A couple of the other factors that have influenced it remember that the affiliated corporate agencies largely sell to very large payroll accounts.
And those -- employment at those accounts really has not increased materially during the time that Japan's economy has struggled but our penetration rates have steadily risen.
So it's not the market that it used to be in terms of large employers.
And we've also had privacy legislation there like we have here that has made it a little more challenging to conduct the kind of campaigns we did in the 80s and early 90s.
And that's why we had shifted a lot of our distribution to those that have more face-to-face contact with ultimate customer including the individual agents and now the bank channel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the question about the number of licensed sales associates does that include the bank reps because I'm trying to reconcile the [indiscernible] there? No it does not include the bank reps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Why do you think that sales associates have been growing so much faster and this has been just a trend for many years than sales? Why do I think what now? Research Division</strong> The number of sales associates generally grows significantly faster than sales through the...
Because I think the economy -- people don't have jobs as easily and they're willing to look at going to work on a commission basis whereas they wouldn't have considered it when you had higher employment.
Well and remember too Colin when we recruit an agency that agency will have multiple licensed sales associates working there so it gets magnified.
If you hire one agency you may get 6 or 7 salespeople out of it.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just to rightsize this issue that I think Andrew was asking about.
If the margin on WAYS is 18% with advanced premiums what is the comparable revenue margin on new sales for cancer and medical products? It's close to -- it's mid- to low-20s.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Mid- to low-20s.
And then I don't recall you addressing this.
If you did I apologize for missing it.
But in the second quarter you talked about the cash at the holding company and the tax issue related kind of the lack of foreign tax credits from the Japan business and there was a column that the holding company cash I think net of the debt is around call it $700 million.
Can you just give an update on where are we at with the holding company cash position? And how do we like frame out this issue around taxes and foreign tax credits? All right.
Well I did talk to the tax guys.
And what we determined was that if we not had the de-risking that we had in the fourth quarter of 2010 and in the first quarter of 2011 our profit repatriation would have been some higher by roughly $875 million and our federal tax payments out of Aflac U.S.
would have been lower by about $450 million.
So we're talking about a net impact on available cash to the live company at the U.S.
level of roughly $1.325 billion.
Now as you said the holding company had as I recall roughly $700 million in cash.
The share repurchase we've done and the dividend we paid in the third quarter came primarily out of holding company cash.
We had a little bit of leftover yen proceeds out of our most recent Samurai offering that we did convert to available cash for the holding company in dollars but order of magnitude that's kind of what's it's been.
Research Division</strong> How much cash do you have at the holding company right now? Between $400 million and $500 million.
Research Division</strong> And should we look at that $400 million to $500 million as largely kind of an amount to deal with this tax issue? Or do you see that as above and beyond that amount? No.
That's over and beyond that.
We deal with the tax issues at the live company level because that's where the taxes are assessed.
Our next question comes from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to shift the focus a little bit back onto the U.S.
Just I'd like to get a sense of what the competitive dynamics are in the market right now and also if you could address where the biggest source of the growth from the independent agencies or agents in terms of the group products.
But what is the actual average-sized organization that you're paying or that you're bringing on in that operation? I can first address the competitive landscape.
We have seen a tremendous number of new entrants attempting to come into the market primarily entrants that are attempting to leverage themselves out of major medical or at least open up new facets of their business as a result of continued pressure on margins with medical loss ratios continuing to go up as well as the broker market continue to push certain companies to offer those products so that they can raise their total revenue they're taking in.
That said we don't think it's had an adverse affect on our sales in any way.
In fact we believe that our recent competitive focus especially on our traditional competitors has worked very well for us.
And we believe that if anything the additional companies coming into our industry will help raise the overall penetration of the market rather than creating market share wars.
So I feel good about our competitive positioning at this time and I think that that has been buoyed to a great extent by our ability to compete in both ends of the market.
The acquisition of CAIC as Dan said in his speech has exceeded our expectations both for the quarter and for the year and so Aflac Group is doing very well.
We have a minimum group size there of 100.
We make rare exceptions to that.
So the average case size that we're writing in Columbia is north of 100.
We don't actually give out specific numbers but I'll tell you that we focus on selling accounts that are really 500 and over in that particular market.
And again -- was there any aspect of your question Joanne that I missed? Research Division</strong> No.
I'm just trying to get a sense because I know that there's a lot of companies that sell employee benefits 401(k) et cetera and they've been trying to move into the voluntary market.
And I'm wondering what you're seeing from those competitors.
I understand about the major medical players but I'm looking more towards the insurance similar to more your company where they haven't necessarily had a big presence in the voluntary market before.
We're not seeing -- I mean I'm really not seeing anything.
It doesn't mean they're not winning cases and that they're not creating relationships but in terms of our 70 000-plus agents who are out there -- and I've just come back from our national convention being with all of our top people from across the country and I did not hear one thing about new competitors or entrants that were outside the major medical field.
Our next question is from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a relatively simple question I think.
Setting aside sales comps would you prefer to have $1 of sales today or tomorrow? I'd always rather take $1 today.
Yes.
I would too.
If you all want to follow-up with any questions please call us in the office and we'll be here.
And thank you very much.
That does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phones at this time.
Welcome to the Aflac Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of our U.S.
Operations; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Eric Kirsch First Senior Vice President Global Chief Investment Officer; Toru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan who is joining us from Tokyo.
Before we start let me remind you that some statements in the teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now I'm going to turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and our operations in both Japan and the U.S.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I'm pleased that we met and in many cases significantly exceeded our financial and operational performance for the fourth quarter and the year.
I'll briefly review the quarter and the year starting with the operations in Japan and the U.S.
Let me begin with Aflac Japan our largest earning contributor that generated strong results throughout 2011.
We were again pleased with Aflac Japan's financial performance and particularly the tremendous sales momentum they produced.
New annualized premium sales rose 31% to JPY 48.6 billion for the quarter which significantly exceeded our expectations and set all-time quarterly record.
Aflac Japan outstanding sales results are especially remarkable considering 2011 was the year Japan was hit by the most devastating natural disaster in its history.
For the year total new annualized premium sales rose 18.6% though suppressed by the strong yen revenue growth in yen rose 6% for the quarter and 4.5% for the year.
Pretax earnings rose 8% for the quarter and 6.8% for the year.
Bank channel sales significantly exceeded our expectations generating JPY 16.5 billion in new annualized premium sales produced and accounted for 33.9% of total Aflac Japan sales.
This represents an increase of 135% over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Banks have been very successful in selling products especially with WAYS our unique hybrid whole life product.
In the fourth quarter the bank channel produced 323% increase in the sale of WAYS over the fourth quarter of 2010.
Looking at the bank channel sales we anticipate sales comparisons in 2012 will be especially difficult especially in the second half of the year following the record 2011 results.
Keep in mind we anticipated the momentum of WAYS sales through banks to carry over into the first quarter of 2012.
In fact we believe first quarter sales of Aflac products through banks will be up more than 150%.
This is in large part because we expect an intense product first quarter push from banks to finish their fiscal year very strong.
Following in a strong first quarter we anticipate the decline in the second half of the year.
One reason is the phenomenal sales growth resulting from the addition of new banks has been mostly tapped.
You'll recall that we started in the smaller Shinkin banks then the regional banks and now all for the mega banks.
Following a great start to the year is Japan banks focus on strong sales for the conclusion of their fiscal year sales will be increasingly challenged when going up against record third and fourth quarter results.
Keep in mind that we've been selling WAYS our top-selling product through banks for as long as 2 years at some banks.
That means we've already cycled through the first major pass at selling this product to the large portion of the bank customers though we believe sales through bank channels will be down for the full year.
With respect to Aflac Japan's traditional sales channel the tremendous sales results in 2009 and 2010 from our EVER product in the Maneki Neko duck campaign created tough comparisons in 2011.
Our traditional sales channel produced flat in 2011 but I expect to see sales growth from this channel in 2012.
Before I turn to the U.S.
I want to give you some perspective on our Japan business.
Until recently 2010 was by far the best year we have ever had in Aflac Japan sales.
As we entered 2011 it was absolutely unthinkable that Aflac Japan could generate an 18.6% sales increase for the year.
That's exactly what we did and we crushed 2010 sales records by JPY 25.5 billion or $316 million.
Following that kind of sales growth I can't imagine that any of you would be surprised that we expect Aflac Japan sales to be down 2% to 5% for 2012.
You'll recall my comments in the third quarter I'm not about to hold business in order to smooth the sales track for the future.
It is in the best interest of our shareholders to take sales when they come in and that's exactly what we did and had a 31% increase in the fourth quarter.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operations.
It's been and continues to be an outstanding -- a long-standing vision to be the leading provider of voluntary insurance in the United States a position we've held for many years.
Aflac U.S.
generated 9.3% increase in new annualized premium sales for the quarter and a 6.8% increase for the year.
We are pleased with those strong results which exceeded our annual sales expectations of flat to up 5%.
I would also note that in 2011 we had stronger persistency than we have had in over a dozen years.
We are continually leveraging Aflac strong brand by directing our efforts and initiatives to support that.
Part of what has driven Aflac's success is our commitment to investing in our business infrastructure.
Once we achieve our corporate earnings objective we look for opportunities to strengthen our business operations.
We told you that we were going to increase expenses in the fourth quarter on IT and marketing initiatives following 3 quarters of restrained spending and that's exactly what we did.
These higher expenditures substantially contributed to fourth quarter earnings decrease of 11.8%.
Earnings for 2011 were basically flat which is better than expected for the year.
This is because 2010's earnings benefited from the release of a $40-million reserve from a 2009 lapsation of a large account.
Revenues rose 4% for the quarter and 3.8% for the full year.
We continue to expand Aflac's potential to connect with employees at many companies large and small across the United States.
2009 addition of group products to our existing portfolio has allowed us to leverage our strong brand and provide more options for customers in both traditional and broker distribution channels.
In 2011 product marketing efforts geared toward existing accounts contributed to strong sales for the veteran agents.
Those efforts included strategic product pushes of enhanced products including dental and short-term disability.
Additionally you'll recall that we've been establishing and developing relationships with brokers that handle larger cases.
While the broker initiatives still is in the infancy we are excited about the opportunity this channel presents for future growth.
I believe that given the challenging economic environment our success in achieving a sales increase of 6.8% for the full year is outstanding.
The U.S.
continues to provide a vast and accessible market for our products by leveraging our strong brand and enhancing our portfolio of individual and group voluntary products.
We expanded our universe of potential customers within the vast and accessible market.
For 2012 we expect Aflac Japan sales to increase in the range of 3% to 8%.
With both operating segments performing well investments are my top priority as a CEO.
The financial crisis that began at the end of 2008 transformed the investment landscape.
In the wake of the fallout we've been closely evaluating our investment function.
In addition to our proactive derisking activities over the past several years we've also enhanced our global investment platform by investing in systems that will help us refine our analysis.
By management -- my management philosophy has always been to find the right person for the job then give them the latitude and support them to deliver the results.
As most of you know Eric Kirsch officially joined Aflac as the Global Chief Investment Officer on November 1.
I'm confident he is the right person to prove the capabilities of our investment function.
Eric's 3 decades of experience in building and leading global teams and managing assets will help us further our vision to be a world-class investment organization that pays particular attention to the needs of the insurance operations through effective ALM and capital adequacy management while also balancing the expectations of shareholders through the investment income growth.
It goes without saying that this objective is in the best interest of the policyholders.
We didn't bring Eric on board to manage our global investments from a status quo standpoint.
Given continued challenges in today's environment we are calling upon Eric's global perspective to evaluate where we are with the investments in relation to the current financial backdrop and where we want to be within that same space.
Eric's on the call today so he will answer your questions when we go to Q&amp;A.
But first let me highlight some of the actions we took with investments this quarter.
As conditions in Europe has deteriorated further volatility has increased.
And we are not presently making any new investments in Europe.
As part of the company's strategy to improve our investment credit profile and diversification we decreased our exposure to Europe through optimistic investment transactions and impairments.
I want to emphasize that these impairment charges are as a whole different from the impairments we've taken in the past.
These impairments did not result from a significant credit changes to specific companies.
Instead they reflected a well-thought-out strategy to reduce our overall exposure to Europe.
I would remind you that our strong capital position and our operation to generate significant capital on an annual basis we were able to make impairments from a position of strength.
We were able to offset a portion of the losses with the sale of the holding of the U.S.
Treasury strips which produced an after-tax gain of $218 million.
So our net after-tax losses for the first quarter was $145 million which was down from $191 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
We will continue to look for opportunities to lower our holdings of European financial assets.
Let me remind you of how successful we've been in substantially enhancing our investment portfolio over the past few years.
From January of 2008 to the end of 2011 we have dramatically cut our holdings of sovereign and financial investments in PIIGS countries from 5.9 to 2.2 of the total investments in cash.
For example on the fourth quarter we exercised the downgrade put on a local Spanish authority La Mancha [ph] and put the security back to them at par.
We've also lowered our investment in perpetual securities by more than half going from 14.7 to 6.8 of the total investments in cash.
We sold the perpetual security in the fourth quarter KBL at a much higher sales price than an impaired value.
DBN Nor [ph] also redeemed the perpetual upper Tier 2 security in December.
I'd also like to point out that none of the perpetual securities we currently own are in PIIGS countries.
As we pursue opportunistic investment transactions we will continue to take actions to reduce our exposure to European debt.
Overall we're pleased with Aflac's consolidated financial performance.
Operating per diluted share rose 11.3% to $1.48 for the quarter and 15.5% or $6.33 for the full year.
Excluding the benefit of the stronger yen operating per diluted share rose 6.8% for the quarter and 8% for the year which was consistent with our 2011 EPS objectives of an 8% increase before the impact of the yen.
I am pleased that for the 22nd year we have achieved our operating earnings objective.
I'd like to comment on the capital position.
The strength of our capital ratios demonstrates our commitment to maintaining financial strength on behalf of our policyholders bondholders as well as our shareholders.
As we've communicated over the past several years maintaining a strong risk-based capital or RBC remains a priority for us.
We have conveyed that our goal was to end 2011 with an RBC ratio in the range of 400 to 500 with a target of 450.
Although we have not yet finalized our statutory financial statements we estimate that 2011 RBC ratio will be between the 480 and 520.
Our capital strength enables us to increase our cash dividend to shareholders in the fourth quarter of 2011 for the 29th consecutive year.
Our objective is to grow our dividend at the rate in line with our earnings per share growth before the impact of the yen.
I believe dividends are an important component of the value that we provide investors.
Additionally in the fourth quarter we purchased 900 000 shares of Aflac's stock bringing the total number of shares purchased for the full year to 6 million.
As we have said for many years when it comes to the deploying capital for the benefit of shareholders we still believe that repurchasing our shares and growing the cash dividend of the most attractive means and that is something that we will continue to pursue.
As you've heard us say before proper repatriation has always been the primary source of funding our share repurchase programs and that is true for 2012.
We mentioned on the third quarter call that we estimated 2012 profit repatriation to be about JPY 45 billion assuming no additional material investment losses through March 31 2012.
However since that time we again enhanced the quality of the portfolio through reducing our exposure to European assets.
These results incurred investment losses in the fourth quarter.
Additionally the reevaluation of the Aflac Japan's deferred tax assets resulted from the reduction of the corporate tax rate in Japan will lower our current SSA-based earnings.
Therefore our profit repatriation in 2012 will be less than we originally anticipated.
We will make a decision about the amount of money that we will transfer from Japan to the U.S.
around middle of the year.
In thinking of that decision we will be taking into consideration the needs of all of our shareholders in Japan including the policyholders.
As you know our capital adequacy in Japan is principally measured by the solvency margin ratio which we estimate within the range of 520 to 560 at calendar year 2011.
We are comfortable with this level of solvency margin ratio but continue to test our capital adequacy ratios by applying vigorous stress test under extreme scenarios.
As we've discussed one of the potential risk to the solvency margin is the rising interest rates.
Although this does not seem likely in the short run we continue to assess the impact of rising interest rates on solvency margin ratios.
In that regard we've taken action to help mitigate that risk.
For instance we sold a portion of our JGB holdings classified as available for sale and then repurchased them the same amount of JGBs classifying them as held to maturity.
Additionally we sold the remainder of our holdings of U.S.
Treasury strips in the fourth quarter and reinvested the proceeds primarily in JGB that were classified as held to maturity.
Looking ahead I want to reiterate that our objective for 2012 is to increase operating earnings per diluted share 2% to 5% on a currency-neutral basis.
This range reflects the impact of the portfolio derisking and investing significantly cash flows at lower interest rates.
We expect the rate of earnings growth for 2013 to improve over 2012.
I'm very pleased with how we have responded to the challenges in 2011 and remain focused on our vision to be the leading provider of voluntary insurance products in the United States and the #1 provider of supplemental insurance in Japan.
Robin I'll turn it over to you.
Thanks Dan.
Today I'm going to dispense with our usual process of highlighting financial and operational metrics in order to allow more time for questions.
However to use this time most effectively I would suggest you focus your questions on the how and why.
If you have a question of fact the odds are we disclosed it.
If you can't find the answer please call Investor Relations and Tom and I will be happy to help.
But before we get to your Q&amp;A I'd like to highlight several things that came up repeatedly in the conversations last night.
One relates to the profitability characteristics of our WAYS product in Japan.
One it has higher premium about 9x the premium of our medical and cancer products.
Two lower commission rates.
Three a higher benefit ratio.
I'd like to add that our benefit ratio in Japan primarily reflected the increased sales of WAYS which greatly exceeded our expectations.
As we've said before the overall profitability of the sale of one WAYS policy is about the same as the sale of one of our cancer or medical products.
My second comment relates to impairments in the quarter.
Of the total impairments for the quarter there was only one impairment CSAV related specifically to the credit of that company.
The remainder were related to our investment strategy and the basket of securities we identified with the intent to sell that Eric will discuss later.
As in the past I would remind you to please limit yourself to one question and one associated follow-up in order to be fair to the other callers.
But before we begin taking your questions since this is Eric's first quarter with the company I'd like Eric to comment on his objectives strategies and challenges for the investment area.
Once he completes his opening remarks we'll open the lines to your call.
Eric? Thank you Robin.
And let me start by thanking Dan and the management team for allowing me to become part of the Aflac family a terrific and great organization and asking me to take the challenge on bringing the Aflac investment group up to world-class standards.
It's a terrific challenge but it's also a great opportunity and it's a great opportunity for our shareholders.
Let me give you a sense of what I've been doing in my first 3 months on the ground and in the spirit of becoming world-class I would classify my objectives as both strategic in order to move us to world-class as well as tactical because we have investments to make and investments to analyze every single day as the world in particularly Europe in such a dynamic and volatile place if you will.
Firstly I've spent significant time on the ground in our operations in Columbus worldwide headquarters with our investment teams and management.
And I have spent significant time in Japan having made 3 trips already spent significant time with our investment teams on the ground in Japan as well as our senior management which has allowed me to fully understand our capabilities our challenges and our issues.
I've also had the opportunity right when I started to meet with all members of the board and to work closely with our finance and investment committees.
As you all probably are aware we have many governance structures internally around the investment functions and I have taken over as chair for example of our global investment committee and our credit subcommittee and we're working very closely with our finance and investment committee representing our investment goals [ph] this year.
Let me break up my conversation in the next few minutes into the strategic and these tactical buckets.
And let me start on the strategic front and then move into the tactical front.
Strategically the charge is let's make sure that Aflac is a world-class investment organization by reviewing all of our capability not only in human capital but also with respect to technology also with respect to investment process also with respect to best in class investment strategies to ensure that our portfolio is well diversified well-managed and we understand all the rest that we can take and take advantage of in consideration of our capital.
So 2 things that we have engaged folks on that we are working on extensively already.
First we've hired McKinsey &amp; Company a well-known management consultant to work alongside me to do a strategic review of our investment capabilities on a global basis.
That project has already started.
We have steering committees of senior management that have already met with McKinsey and McKinsey has been on the ground in our Japan office as well as in our Columbus office and New York already doing an extensive review.
We expect this project to take about 3 months and to conclude somewhere at the end of March.
Secondly we have embarked on a strategic asset allocation ALM capital management exercise.
So specifically what that means is we want to take a broad look at all the investment opportunities that are appropriate for an insurance company appropriate for our company of our locations in Japan and Columbus appropriate for the type of liabilities that we have and well-managed given the objectives that we have with respect to capital.
That project we've embarked on with Goldman Sachs asset management who is a world leader in this expertise and what my expectation of that is to look at a broader set of asset classes and investment opportunities that we can use in the future that has not been used historically at Aflac which will help us improve the overall quality of the earnings of our portfolio and diversification for the future.
That project will take approximately 5 months and my expectation is when we have those recommendations and work with the senior management and our board for approvals we'll begin to implement those strategies somewhere in the second half of the year.
So those are the strategic parts that go along with defining our roadmap which I think in the second half of the year will be very well defined and we'll be able to articulate that to you.
Let me move to tactical because that's so so important as we have $100-plus-billion balance sheet that in fact is invested on a global basis in a time of great volatility in the markets.
So with respect to that I have spent significant time with our investment teams both in Japan and the U.S.
looking at all of our holdings understanding where our exposures are where our concentrations are.
In addition as you all know we've made a commitment to do outsourcing.
And I took advantage of asking some potential partners of the future to work with us to look at our portfolio so that I can have a second set of eyes and opinions that complement our own.
So with respect to that as you all know we do have concentrations in Europe.
And as you also know and I'm pleased to tell you that I reviewed the company had been on a derisking strategy over the last few years and it made significant improvement in reducing those exposures and increasing the quality and lessening the volatility of our portfolio.
Nevertheless we still have those exposures and as I look at that basket of securities with a focus on Europe where most of my attention has been focused on clearly I'm focused on the financials.
As I look at our broad portfolio it's actually a high-quality portfolio.
As you know most of our assets are in private placement form where we've had the opportunity to negotiate specific covenants to our structures.
But clearly the financials represent the greatest challenge with respect to the situation in Europe.
And let me remind everybody that in the second half of this year the volatility in Europe increased to unprecedented proportion that nobody could have imagined.
And it's multifaceted because we've got the political framework the monetary framework and the fiscal framework in a very difficult situation in Europe in order to get agreement.
And during the quarter no matter what financial indicator you look at with respect to European assets or European financials in particular the spread in the marketplace went to all-time highs in terms of volatility.
During the quarter as different actions were successful by the politicians and the monetary officials and some actions were not.
In the last month of the year we did see an easing up as the ECB has basically provided liquidity to financial institutions helping to take the biggest risk a Lehman type risk off the table.
Nevertheless we will continue to see volatility in Europe in my opinion over the next couple of years as they try to reach consensus on some strategies that will be everlasting in nature but that will take some time.
With that in mind that expected volatility as I looked at the portfolio I felt it was necessary to have a strategy to continue to reduce these exposures in particular with the financials so that we can lessen our exposure to that potential volatility which is very very hard to predict.
As Dan and Robin have mentioned consistent with that strategy since we've embarked on that in late December we took a number of impairments with respect to that basket of securities because our intent is now focused on executing those strategies which started in late December and are going to be ongoing throughout this year but hopefully primarily completed before the midyear mark.
So again to emphasize those impairments were not because of credit related reasons with respect to the financials.
They're related to a strategy that's focused on improving the quality of our portfolio lessening the exposure to the financial sector so that we'll have less volatility should the situation in Europe continue to be volatile which I believe it will be.
We will be highly vigilant on these holdings.
Our teams are highly focused on it and where it makes sense we will leverage outside advisers that are potentially going to become outsourcing partners with us so that we have the best intelligence in the world to make the best informed decisions.
I should also may -- mention early on my arrival upon my assessment I put a stop to all new investments in Europe.
As I look at our broad exposure while I believe the quality of the portfolio is very high with obviously the risk in the financial sectors I've already mentioned I felt that our macro exposure to Europe was at its limits and there was no need to make further investments even though there are many good companies in Europe that we could find as attractive opportunities we just have reached our risk bucket.
Nevertheless there are new investment opportunities we're looking at in other parts of the world.
So with that those are the strategic and the tactical things.
We're working hard on all of those fronts.
And we'll continue to provide you updates as the situation continues to develop.
But we're very proud of the work that we've done to-date.
And we feel good with respect to where our portfolio is and feel good that these strategies will transition us into the future state.
Eric why don't you go ahead and answer a couple of questions that came up last night that you overheard and give them a sense and then we'll take their questions.
It might cut down the questions.
Sure.
Again one of the questions we've heard last night was can we see the list of specific securities and is that it? The reason we've not provided the list is this is a strategy.
The strategy around our financials.
And as you all know our investments are not publicly traded investments.
They're in the form of private placements.
And what that means is these are privately negotiated transactions in order for us to find ways to either liquidate those securities that we'd like to reduce exposure to and if we can't do that there are other strategies such as looking at hedging strategies credit default swaps and amongst the bucket of securities that we wish to look at we will only execute if we get a value that we feel is optimal for our shareholders.
We will not execute simply in the interest of trying to reduce the exposures if we can't get a fair value.
So in that spirit the negotiations will take a few months to develop and we will report to you as we actually transact during our regular reporting periods but I want to emphasize that it's a strategy.
Another question that comes up is do you expect more? That is a difficult question to answer.
What I expect is the situation in Europe will continue to be volatile.
Just -- let's look at the recent activity.
The month of December started to feel better financial indications -- indicators in Europe began to get better because the ECB came to the table and is providing liquidity to the system.
Just in the last 2 weeks questions have arose again with respect to Greece.
And again I'm proud to say that we don't have any exposure to Greece.
But nevertheless because those questions have arisen in the market we've seen an increase in volatility in the last week or 2.
I expect those types of events to continue to happen.
Therefore our strategy of reducing our bucket should reduce our volatility.
Again I'll remind you the strategy is not because we had a change of opinion on the credits.
But should the situation in Europe deteriorate as an example and the ECB not provide liquidity because they feel the fiscal situation isn't keeping speed that could have an impact on our views of our holdings the speed of our execution and/or the credit views.
So I can't say anything with precision but I can analyze the dynamics that might affect the portfolio and be actively working on those risks to reduce the potential that those situations in Europe would impact us in any substantial way from here on out.
Thank you very much Eric and welcome aboard.
All right we will now begin with your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on Japan sales.
Typically sales in Japan declined sequentially in the first quarter from the fourth.
Given your comments on bank sales which are obviously seasonally strong in calendar 1Q is it reasonable to assume that you'll see sequential growth in sales in the first quarter of this year? And then just following up on Dan's comments on free cash flow and capital flexibility at the holding company.
Could you just give us a little bit more detail on how much capital you think you can upstream to the holding company from the Japan's sub in 2012 based on what you've seen in in investment losses the past few quarters? Kriss you want to go ahead and take that? Okay.
Jimmy I'll take the question on how much capital we can upstream from Japan.
At the end of the third quarter we had said that we had projected that the repatriation would approximate JPY 45 billion potentially if we had no material additional losses.
As you know we did take additional losses in the fourth quarter within the Aflac Japan segments.
And now our best estimate at today's date through March 31 if we don't have any additional material losses would be approximately JPY 25 billion.
So that's kind of the range of numbers on that.
Now at that level at JPY 25 billion would we choose to take it all out and use it for capital management purposes of various sorts I think the jury's out on that right now.
I think we're kind of in a wait-and-see period as to what our most effective use of capital is.
Our overall story continues to be that we have strong operating earnings.
They're going to generate a lot of capital.
We're going to see to what extent in realized investment losses are going to cut in to the portion of that capital that becomes available for capital management purposes.
So that's where we are right at the moment.
And in regard to sales I don't have it in front of me because I'm always interested in what it compares to last year.
But let me say again that first quarter sales traditional channels look to be about flat.
What's going to happen with sales regarding the bank channel is the driving factor.
And I just said it would be up 150% or more.
How it's going to break down I'm not totally sure at this point.
When I said or more it could be.
I don't know how much more it could be.
Because it's something we just can't track at this point.
But I do expect -- I want to go back on sales.
This is common with any new product.
There's an enormous spike once they've made the cycle.
So they're trying to finish out the cycles on some of these and -- by the end of the quarter.
And so there may be carryover in April.
They may process it all in March.
I'm just not sure at this point.
But the point I want to make to you is it's going to be big.
So just because it's big in the first quarter don't expect the sales for the year to be that tremendous because we're expecting this spike.
Our next question is from Ed Spehar of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I have a question about the RBC ratio that you think you have at the end of the year.
And I guess if I'm doing the numbers right it looks like your year-end total adjusted capital shouldn't be that much different than where it was at the end of the 9 months.
And so for you to be at the lower end or even the midpoint the 480% to 500% RBC it would seem that your required capital would have to be up 10% to 15% year end '11 versus year end '10.
And I guess it's hard to see can you help us understand why required capital would go up so much especially considering that you've been derisking throughout 2011? Okay Ed.
I haven't seen the final numbers to know whether required capital is up or not.
Based on the nominal NAIC ratings changes in the portfolio that actually would help us.
Foreign exchange will hurt us a little bit.
So then I think the primary change in RBC ratio related to the realized losses and whether or not or to what extent we can take tax benefits associated with those losses.
On a GAAP basis we've been taking a full tax benefit on the realized losses because we've got unrealized gains that we can use to justify no allowance on utilization and foreign tax loss carry forwards.
But under statutory there's a limitation on the amount of surplus that you can use to get an admitted deferred tax asset.
And I think I mentioned last year that we were approaching the limit on that deferred tax assets.
So I think what you're seeing is that limited tax benefits on the realized losses we're booking.
Research Division</strong> But Kriss that's already been the case through the first 9 months of this year right? So I guess that's factored into this tac number that I think you've got already right? Well that number reflects actual capital as opposed to the total adjusted capital in the numerator.
I think the denominator stayed about the same Ed.
And I think the total adjusted capital we have in force was influenced by the higher level of losses pretax.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I mean I guess that would be my assumption as well which would make it seem like 520 is a lot more likely than 480 I guess is my conclusion.
Well right now I think we're close to the middle of the range.
We haven't finished the numbers.
We'll know at the end.
Really a couple more weeks Ed before we get the final stat work done.
And then we can work with Robin to provide a reconciliation to the year end '10 numbers so you can see what the moving parts were.
Ed we've got our Chief Accounting Officer in the room and her comment was it may be.
We're just not sure at this point.
[indiscernible] We're just not sure.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Eric question for you.
I mean the -- sort of the tactical element and the strategic review is taking probably another 5 months or so to address the optimal asset allocation.
Can you comment some in terms of what you're doing with new money today as you kind of bridge the gap as you look out over the next 5 months? Sure happy to.
We continue to be looking at non-JGB investment opportunities.
And they do exist in other parts of the world.
As previously stated no more investments in Europe but we are seeing good investment opportunities in Asia including some in Latin America as well.
We're also focused on continuing to purchase an appropriate amount of JGB investments.
We need those both for diversification liquidity but also as I believe Dan mentioned earlier the JGBs as we're able to use them as liability management tools as well as interest rate tools allow us when put into HTM to better manage our solvency margin ratio.
So for the foreseeable future those are the things that we have concentrated on historically and we'll continue to do that before we venture into new investment opportunities we need to do as I mentioned earlier the asset allocation project to make sure we understand how they're going to fit.
One last item I should mention last year the company did embark on an allocation to bank loans.
And the board had approved an allocation up to $500 million.
Through the end of the year we've used approximately $100 million to $125 million of that.
We are moving forward to use that capacity as we believe bank loans do represent an attractive opportunity and an attractive complement to our broad portfolio.
So I would expect that before the end of June before the end of the second quarter we will probably use $500 million of capacity in bank loans subject to market conditions but we're working on that funding as we speak.
Research Division</strong> And then Dan in terms of I guess Japan.
Can you comment a little bit on sort of the expectations for where the benefit ratio could go given the product mix shift? And are you at all worried given sort of the distribution how it becomes much more open architecture with banks being a predominant player now? Or you at all worried about deterioration in overall profitability not just for Aflac but for the industry overall? I think that's a Kriss question.
Thanks Dan.
Well I would say that we did write a significantly more significantly higher portion of life products and including WAYS in the fourth quarter than we had in previous quarters.
Those will -- particularly the WAYS products caused the ratios to behave in the way that I've been describing.
You're going to get higher revenue on the WAYS life policy than you got on a health policy.
Your benefit ratio is going to be somewhat higher.
Your expense ratio is going to be somewhat lower.
Your overall margin may be somewhat lower.
But your profit per policy ought to be at least the same as a health policy as a combination health policy.
Now I was pleased to see that our overall margin increased during the 2011 period including the fourth quarter compared to the fourth quarter last year.
So the numbers are behaving as I told you to expect them to behave.
We're not getting the declines in the benefit ratios but we are getting some decline in the expense ratios.
And overall margins are holding steady to modestly improving.
And that's even holding true in the light of low interest rate environment we invested in during 2011.
I think you'll see some continuation of that into 2012.
I told you the reduced earnings estimates in 2012 were a function of getting the low investment yield rates kind of reflected through the full 12-month period as well as the effect of reinvesting funds associated with investment principal that we had derisk that is sold and had to reinvest.
So that can -- impact continues on into 2012.
And the only other comment I'd make is that we are continuing to downplay the sale of the endowment policy.
In fact we're giving no credits for sales in 2012 for bonuses for the management team on endowment.
And in addition we're introducing a new cancer I mean a new medical product and we expect that to be very positive for us going forward and will be the same profit margins of the medical products in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the open architecture and kind of profitably across the industry? Well by open architecture I'm not sure if you mean that we intend to control sales by product category.
Is that sort of what you mean? Research Division</strong> No more just the bank distribution you have sort of expanding distribution beyond just sort of control controlled distribution.
Well I was just going to say our distribution channels vary dramatically over the years.
If you go back you can remember we had a telemarketing company that was selling almost 18% of our business.
And they no longer produce anything for us.
So we found a way to look for new alternatives of distribution and expand on as we move forward.
I still think the bank channel although this year will be difficult and maybe even next year we always find ways to supplement and grow our business.
So I think that's what we'll be doing in terms of expanding that distribution channel.
Our next question is from the Andrew Kligerman of UBS.
Research Division</strong> This question is around the profitability of the products.
Two data points.
I was a little confused Kriss and I think Robin mentioned earlier that for every one sale of a medical product you have the same profitability as a WAYS and then there's -- and it's 9x the premium.
So is the profitability 1/9? And then following on to that I was in Japan recently and had gotten some feedback from competitors that the pricing on WAYS was somewhat aggressive and that they were having difficulty competing.
So what I'd like to know is what do you think is the reason for these robust sales? And is the pricing aggressive? Okay.
The -- with respect to child endowment we did have the situation where the premium was about 3x higher than the health policy and the margin was about 1/3 of the typical health policy.
So the comment about same profit for policy really applied to child endowments.
We don't have that extreme situation on WAYS because WAYS has a different patterns of cash values and settlement features and the like.
And the premium is much higher.
It's like 9x higher on average.
So the profitability of WAYS as a percent of premium actually is almost double that of child endowment as a percent of premium.
So the WAYS's profitably is much better.
The WAYS benefit period tends to be longer than child endowment.
It's longer before you reach the time when benefits are paid out.
Child endowment you start paying benefits at about age 15.
WAYS is more like a whole life contract where you pay benefits out starting at a retirement age and you have certain options in the benefits after retirement age.
As far as pricing it aggressively it's priced at the same interest rate that child endowment was but it is a longer duration.
So we think we can invest for somewhat longer period on WAYS than we can on child endowment and still maintain asset liability management principles in place.
Overall just suffice it to say that WAYS when sold with advanced discount premium options which is done over half the times in the bank channel 90% of the bank channel almost half the time overall that does improve the profitability too.
Because you change your weighted average interest rate required under the contract from the 1.85% that the base policy assumes to an average of 1.85% and the 1% that we credit on the advanced premium deposit funds.
So it really kind of weighted average required interest down less than 1.5% on the aggregate contract and that makes a big difference on WAYS sold through the bank channel.
So whether or not the other company that made the comment to you that they thought we are priced aggressively utilize the advanced premium deposit fund to the same extent we do I don't know.
Whether they just want to invest short-term in JGBs only I don't know.
So I can't really comment on the comparative profitability.
That's all I can tell you what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just with regard to the profitability how long a duration are you investing? And more importantly on this investment portfolio the hierarchy it sounds like there's a derisking of another pool of investments.
What kind of impact will that have on 2013 earnings? Is there going to be sort of a waiting down? Should we be looking at something in the mid-single digits next year as well because you are derisking a significant amount of securities? Well I want to make one other comment.
This is Dan going back to your first question.
Number one is one reason the competitor's hadn't been in the business is because it has the health insurance element and most life insurance companies have not been comfortable with the health insurance element that's in there.
Therefore it's given us an enormous competitive advantage that very few had been offering it.
And also I just want to mention that the profit margin is around 18%.
So it's a great profit margin on that if you include the discounted advanced premium.
They're -- and they're actually competing with us with the product that we prefer not to sell.
There's really no other product like WAYS in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I mean they were arguing that -- they argued that they could tack on some type of the health benefits but maybe they can't.
I don't know.
Well all we know is we're doing great with what we're doing and we're making an 18% profit margin.
We're very happy with it and we're glad we're selling the hell out of it.
Was the last question related to the duration of investments? I'm kind of...
Research Division</strong> I just quickly wanted -- you just said you can invest longer so I just wanted to get a quick number like what's the duration of the investments tied to the WAYS product? Well it's 20 years or less typically.
Our next question comes from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones if I could.
I know there's been a lot of talk about the premium levels and the margins et cetera of WAYS relative to maybe the medical or cancer products.
Maybe the easier way to get at this and I'm not sure if you'd be willing to do it but I'll ask anyways is maybe you can help us understand the ROE characteristics of WAYS relative to cancer and medical.
I assume the ROE is lower.
But I guess the question is just how much lower.
Maybe capital required per premium dollar or something like that.
The capital requirements -- we pay lower commissions on WAYS John than we do on the medical.
So we don't have a major difference in invested capital.
I'd say the payback period or the so-called breakeven period on the statutory or regulatory accounting basis would be about 7 years which might make ROE somewhat less than our basic health products which break even after maybe 3 or 4 years.
But with that kind of profit margin the ROEs are somewhat less than the health products but not a tremendous amount.
We're still getting ROEs in excess of cost of capital certainly and that approximate our average.
They're not going to bring down our average ROE very much if at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a quick one.
Just thinking about cash flow and obviously the higher level of losses might bring down the repatriation.
Just want to get a sense for where the holding company's cash balance was at the end of 2011.
All right.
We were I think around $380 million or so I'm trying to remember that...
That sounds $385 million.
About $385 million down from last year where we were about $685 million or so.
Research Division</strong> But there's no upcoming debt maturities like there was in 2011 correct? Well we have a JPY 30 billion samurai note due in June that we've been investigating alternatives to refinancing that and considering other options that we think we can easily refinance that activity.
I'll say we actually planned for the cash at the holding company to be somewhat less than it is now.
But we did forego taking 2 of the quarterly dividends from the life company to the holding company in 2011 and that brought our cash position down somewhat at the holding company.
I think I mentioned on the last call yes the last call or the June call that we were doing a lot more cash flow analysis and a lot more cash flow projections and looking at the different levers we can pull to maintain adequate cash position at the various levels of the company and have some alternative strategies in place that will interface with our capital management program.
I will tell you that we also contributed $40 million to the group company CAIC during 2011 to support the substantial growth that we have there.
You didn't ask anything about the U.S.
but U.S.
sales were up quite a bit in 2012.
And the significant part of that came out of the success of our Aflac group operations.
Research Division</strong> I guess that begs sort of an interesting follow-up.
I mean I think historically or in recent calls you guys have talked about or Kriss you've talked about 20% of annual earnings operating earnings or net income required to support organic growth.
Is it safe to assume -- I assume that it's safe to assume -- sorry -- that given the substantial growth in 2011 it was much higher than 20% correct? Well most of the organic growth came out of Japan.
And -- but I think that 20% would not be substantially affected by the volume of business necessarily because if the growth's there 20% of the same volume would be about right.
Our next question comes from Jeff Schuman of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of follow-ups for Kriss.
First of all on the repatriation I wondering how that relates to share repurchase.
I think you had earlier suggested 2012 share repurchase could be maybe ballpark $600 million.
I assumed that figured somehow into the EPS guidance.
Should we think of that as being at risk at this point? How should we think about that in light of the uncertainty around repatriation? Well I mentioned earlier Jeff that at the end of the third quarter we had forecast our repatriation through kind of as of the March 31 2012 FSA statements which is the time that the fiscal year end in Japan is the time that we set that repatriation.
And normally we target approximately 80% of our net earnings on FSA basis after tax.
And the impairments we took in the fourth quarter for Aflac Japan investments caused us to revise our estimates of repatriation down from $45 billion which might have given us $600 million at then exchange rates to about $25 billion if we have no additional material net realized losses during the first quarter of 2012.
Now I don't know whether we're going to have the realized losses or not.
Eric's still continuing to posture the portfolio and if we decide that it's in the best interest of the company to sell or impair additional securities we may have more realized losses.
And we may reduce repatriation or at least repatriate-able earnings.
And then we'll have to take a look at the solvency margin in Japan and try to decide whether that's an appropriate level to satisfy the policyholders and the regulators in Japan.
And that is a solvency margin that we're comfortable with relative to our position within the other countries in the industry.
Our story all along Jeff since the fall of 2008 has been that we believe that our best strategy to make it through the financial crisis is to continue having solid earnings growth which we've done.
Our operating earnings have continued really without a blip.
And those earnings have contributed enough capital to the company to be able to absorb all the investment losses we've been able to take.
And in 2010 we were -- 2011 we were comfortable enough to resume share repurchase and did in fact to repurchase 6 million shares or so last year.
Now where we go in 2012 is going to be a function primarily of the investment losses we take.
We're comfortable with that the operating earnings we're going to generate are going to be there.
They're probably going to be in excess of our projections given the good sales activity we've had going on both in Japan and the U.S.
relative to what those sales were back when I was making the projections before the last FAB meeting.
So we'll update those numbers for you in May and take a look and let you know.
But all I can tell you is right now I'm thinking that it depends on the level of the realized losses and the operating earnings portion of it is going to be there.
The statement I want to make is is that if we didn't buy any stock back we can still make the range.
But our goal is to have JPY 25 billion available to be able to buy stock back with.
That's the most important thing I want to mention.
Internally I'm saying we're managing toward that.
And if we can achieve it that'll be good.
But if we don't it's not the end of the earth because that doesn't mean we're going to have an earnings miss [ph] in 2012.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the other thing I want to just follow on quickly was the WAYS' ROE.
You gave us a couple of bookends that were really far apart.
I think you talked about it earning more than cost of capital which I assume we would all agree is probably low double digits for you but then you said probably close to ROE which is I think 2011 was 28%.
So that's a really big range.
I know you don't want to give specific number but I mean which is it really close to the cost of capital or your consolidated ROE? Well that's a difficult question for me to answer because I don't price our products on an ROE basis.
And ROE's influenced by the level of investment losses you have and the like and what your equity position is.
Now you have to get into the whole list of things about what are we talking about are we going to compare net earnings to equity including unrealized gains and losses or we're going to talk about operating return on equity where we exclude investment losses and we exclude realized gains and losses and I don't sit around spend a lot of time worrying about that.
I worry about the fundamental profitability of our products as a percent of premium.
And if I can sell products with double-digit profit margins I figure that I've got it covered for the most part.
So that's just our internal perspective.
I'm going to interject now.
I see that it is already past the top of the hour but considering the number of people in line to ask questions we're going to extend to 10:15.
So you can go ahead with the next question please.
Our next question comes from Randy Binner of FBR.
Research Division</strong>.
I just got a quick follow-up on the buyback.
I think previously Kriss had talked about in 2013 JPY 90 billion to JPY 95 billion of repatriation.
So how does everything that's been talked about so far affect how you might be able to look ahead to 2013 in those levels of yen repatriation and thus buyback? Well the JPY 90 billion to JPY 95 billion those are our projected operating earnings before any investment realized investment losses in 2013.
The JPY 45 billion that I talked about at the end of the last quarter are already reflected the realized losses we had taken during the first 6 months of the fiscal period in Japan for the year ended 3/31/2012.
So the JPY 45 billion reflected the investment losses we had in the second third quarter this year.
So that' how you got down.
JPY 95 billion is close to the run rate of operating earnings for fiscal 2012 in Japan but then we have the realized losses.
The other JPY 95 billion for 2013 would just be close to the operating earnings assuming no additional realized losses.
So that's where those numbers came from.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So without further credit loss in 2013 we can -- we should be able to try and model for much higher buybacks in 2013 versus what we'll be able to expect again in 2012 is that fair? Yes that's fair.
Keep it in mind that we really dont become eligible to take the repatriation out until March 14.
March 14 that's when -- that's the final date of the financial statement.
And then as  a practical matter we dont file it till May or so and we have to reflect any losses that occur prior to the date of the filing and that   could affect things.
So we've become more certain we're going to get the money but we dont get the money until accounting period is over.
Kind of thing we can't pull it out as we go along.
I suppose we could arrange to finance anticipated share repurchase.
But I've been reluctant to do that because of the changing nature of the investment climate throughout the world.
I would say that our primary priority is supporting the shareholder dividends making sure we got enough money for that and then share repurchases.
Our second priority in terms of returning money to shareholders.
Our next question is from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just want to talk about your past history in terms of your way of reserving for relatively new product and how that kind of runs through profits over time.
So in the past you have always put up a little bit more reserve or pads or whatever for new products because there's this uncertainty around how the profit is going to emerge.
And then that tends to be conservative and then you're able to take down some of those reserves over time as the benefit ratios come in and you're more comfortable with the profitability of the product.
Is that one of the ways that we should look at the WAYS product now because it's new and it's different that you're being a little bit conservative on the reserving and so over time we should see more profit emerge? It's not quite as true to the level of the health products Joanne and the reason is that prior to the age at which the policyholder has the options.
It's primarily a life insurance accumulation contract.
You tend to accumulate cash until the so-called Y age which is the age at which the policyholder has the opportunity to elect the option to continue the product as life benefits or to take out cash or move the health benefits or annuity benefits.
So the WAYS product is more inter sensitive than a typical health product because it builds cash to that retirement age.
And then at the retirement age when they elect the options they elect the options at the price at which we offer products at that time.
So the policyholder doesn't really know and we don't have to commit to the price we're going to sell them health benefits at 15 years from now.
We don't have to commit to that today.
So we've got the option and the protection of doing that.
Now on the health products you're right.
We tend to be a little bit more conservative in the early years.
If we don't have a good track record or a good handle on where the health claims are going to come out based on who utilizes our distribution channel to buy those products.
So we start out being a little conservative and then as we gain confidence over a couple of years we'll introduce a new version of the product and develop new reserve assumptions that reflect our experience to date and probably have a little less element of conservatism and therefore the old products would have more provisions for adverse deviation to release in the future.
But it's a little bit different story on the WAYS product.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up for Eric.
With respect to your looking at new investment opportunities throughout the world.
One of the problems is obviously that you have so much liabilities denominated in yen.
So when you look around the world for opportunities will you only consider things that can be denominated in yen? And does that limit that opportunity set? Terrific question.
First as you know through the private placement structure that's exactly right.
We end up with a yen denominated asset with no risk to currency fluctuations.
As we look at new strategies beyond privates which is an objective because we have a big portfolio of privates.
One of our objectives which will come out from the asset allocation project is to have more public traded bonds but on a global basis.
So you're right in order to do that we need to focus on the currency risk and our objective would be to have minimal currency risk relative to our liabilities and particularly in Japan.
So we would be exploring if we were to invest around the world in more publicly traded securities what hedging vehicles or strategies would we need to employ to ensure we're not taking on currency risk so that it's better matched to our liabilities and our base currency.
So that will be determined and analyzed as part of our project and later on this year as I said when we would move to implementation we will have that all factored in and be able to articulate that more.
Research Division</strong> Eric just a quick follow-up and then I'm done.
In the past management has been very reluctant to hedge currency risk.
And I'm wondering if this is something that you think you can do without taking on substantial financial risk? Or is it more of a diversification of exposures strategy? Well I think we can potentially achieve both.
But that's the scope of the asset allocation ALM.
And I just said capital management program.
We certainly want to achieve diversification in our balance sheet on a global basis and we certainly want to understand all the different types of investment risk that we could take or could be exposed to.
So those investment risk include interest rate risk sector risk concentration risk how different asset classes correlate with each other.
But within those risks could be currency risk.
And I don't feel that we should be an investor in currencies in terms of taking that as an active risk.
Our liabilities particularly for our Japan branch are based in Japan and we should minimize that risk by ensuring the asset strategies match up well versus the liabilities.
So as we do this project we will actually be able to measure and quantify those potential exposures and what would be the effect of a hedging strategy if we employ more assets globally and in publicly traded bonds.
So we would have a metric on given different scenarios of what can happen in the currency markets or the credit markets or the financial markets.
What the hedge is on? How would that potentially impact our investment results our capital position.
So we would not move forward unless we had that fully quantified.
And we understood fully the potential for those risk.
It's 10:15.
It's 10:15 now so we're going to have one more quick question.
Our final question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up and then a quick one for Paul if he's still there.
Kriss the timing -- the amount that you can take out in May or June is based on the net income of Japan for the year ended this March.
Is that correct? Yes that's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then assuming everything is clear which you can -- I think you said 2014 but what you can take out in 2013 is based on the year ended in March of 2013 is that correct? Yes.
I probably got the year off there.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
You said 2014 I just wanted to clear that up.
And then for Paul it seemed -- talking about the group business through the brokers is still nascent still in its infancy.
If you can talk about what's going on there because I think that's going to be that has the potential for being a huge delta.
And we're only 1 year into it if we're talking in this time next year is that the time to really see whether or not this is successful? Yes the book to market has certainly been success over the last several years.
As I've mentioned in previous calls it is a relationship business that takes time for us to be successful.
There's no doubt that the large majority of our success in the group business was a balance between not only what we're seeing in the broker market but also our field force.
I think there was pent-up demand among accounts as well as some of our sales force to actually go out and write group business and accounts over 100.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me stop you Paul.
I understand it's been very successful through the traditional agent.
I'm much more interested in the alphabet houses.
I'm getting there.
The alphabet houses themselves continues to be slow.
We have done -- our greatest success with the smaller regional brokers and in terms of the national brokers we know that those relationships have the longest tail to them and are taking the longest for us to develop.
We do feel that we're making progress and we're making some additional changes and investments in order to grow that further.
Whether or not 12 months from now we're going to see significant premium I think that it will be much improved over where it is today.
That said I think it's still too early to tell how that's going to go.
That said broker sales on the whole for last year were up 18%.
So I feel very good about the success of our broker strategy but I would like to see us become more successful in the top end of that broker strategy and we're putting the things in place now to make sure that happens for the long term.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a year from now yay or still too early? If we're here a year from now talking about this.
A year from now is going to be better than it is today how exponential versus linear that is I can't tell you.
My hope is for exponential but linear may be a reality.
Just give me until May and I can talk to you a little more of that.
Thank you.
All right this concludes our conference call this morning.
Thank you for joining us.
If you want to follow-up with any questions or comments you have our numbers so you can call Tom McDaniel or myself and we'll be glad to help you out.
Thanks again.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may disconnect your phones at this time.
Welcome to the Aflac First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Joining me this morning here in Columbus is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Eric Kirsch First Senior Vice President Chief Global Investment Officer; and joining us remotely this morning is Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; and Toru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan who's joining us from Tokyo.
Before we start let me remind you that some statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly report for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and our operations in Japan and the U.S.
I'll follow up with a few highlights for the first quarter and then we'll be glad to take your questions.
Dan? Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'm very pleased that we met and in many cases significantly exceeded our financial and operational targets for the first quarter.
Let me begin with an update on Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
Following an impressive 2011 we again are pleased with Aflac Japan's financial performance with their tremendous sales momentum in the first quarter.
New annualized premium sales rose 53.8% to JPY 52.4 billion for the quarter which surpassed our expectations and set a production record for the third straight quarter.
Revenues grew 7.8% and pretax earnings were up 3.2% for the quarter.
Bank channel sales has been a huge factor in the tremendous sales growth over the last couple of years.
We told you at the end of the year that we expected new annualized premium sales through the bank channels in the first quarter to be up more than 150% and they were actually up 208% over the first quarter of 2011.
As you will recall our unique hybrid whole-life product WAYS has been a significant contributor to the bank channel growth.
There are 3 principal reasons why selling WAYS has benefited our business.
First due to its much higher premium it's a strong contributor to the top line growth.
Although our margins are lower than our healthcare products WAYS contributes to the bottom line.
It's important to note that the profit margin on WAYS sold using the discounted advance premium method is 8% to 12% and more than 90% of the consumers purchasing WAYS through banks select this payment method.
But I'd point out that if we use the new money yields for WAYS' cash flows are just 25 basis points higher the profit margin range would be 13% to 17%.
At our analyst meeting next month we will give you some additional color on the margins and the returns on the WAYS product.
The second reason we sell WAYS is because this product gives us access to new customers.
I'll point out that 80% of the customers at the banks are new to Aflac.
Also the average age on WAYS purchasers is 43 which is appealing to us because that age is in the segment of the market which is 25 to 49 where we are under penetrated.
The third reason we're selling WAYS is because this product helps us solidify the relationships we've worked hard to establish with banks.
Aflac has agreements with 372 of the 403 banks in Japan.
We believe this number is significantly greater than any of our competitors.
Our bank channel has significantly reach into Japan with more than 20 000 branches.
Japanese consumers rely on banks not only to provide traditional bank services but also to provide insurance solutions among other services.
As such our partnership with the banks provide us with a very different demographic of potential customers than we otherwise have been to reach.
And it also allowed the banks to expand their products and offerings to consumers.
Low interest rates in Japan has been challenging for many years and even more so compared to this time last year.
But understand we are currently in the process of evaluating the pricing of our entire product line using lower interest rates.
I can tell you that we will definitely be working on repricing our ordinary life products over the next year.
Keep in mind this takes some time because it involves an alignment of sales and promotional programs as well as system changes.
We are also looking at different asset allocations that would generate better returns on the premium income generated from WAYS.
Following an extensive analysis of our WAYS products we concluded that 5 pay [ph] version of WAYS that we started selling through the bank channels in June of 2011 would be more susceptible to intermediation at its paid-up date.
Therefore we took action to limit the production of this particular version of WAYS for both the bank channel and our traditional agencies.
Thanks to the strong relationship we have with banks we've been successful at reaching production caps agreements for the 5 pay WAYS [ph] production channel.
I would note that there are significant surrender penalties for this product until the paid-up date.
Taking an extreme case if every 5 pay [ph] WAYS product cancel their policy to paid-up date we would not have the liquid investment.
Instead we would fund the payouts from the investable cash flows which significantly exceed our cash surrender values that would be claimed.
And this type of scenario would only be likely if interest rates or interest yields on new investments are significantly higher than they are today.
Obviously the higher rates would benefit our investment returns on net new money that we would have to invest.
With respect to Aflac Japan's traditional sales channel the tremendous sales results in 2009 and 2010 from the EVER products in the Maneki Neko Duck campaign created tough comparisons in 2011.
As you will recall our traditional sales channels produced flat sales last year.
As I said last quarter that I expected sales from the [indiscernible] channels to be up in 2012.
First quarter sales results for this channel actually increased 9.1%.
So we're off to a good start.
Keep in mind that the foundation of Aflac Japan's product portfolio has been and will continue to be the third sector cancer and medical products.
Aflac Japan remains the #1 provider in the third sector market by continually to revise and developing products that are relevant to the consumers' needs.
It's our objective to retain the #1 position.
In the first quarter our cancer sales were up 14.2%.
We also upgraded the new EVER product toward the end of January and initial results of this product revision is being well received by consumers.
We believe sales of this product will benefit the medical category.
Finally I'd like to point out that excluding production of the 5 WAYS pay [ph] sales would still be up roughly 25.9%.
Based on Japan's strong first quarter we now expect total annualized premium sales to be up 10% this year.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operation.
It has been and continues to be our long-standing vision to be the leading provider of voluntary insurance in the United States a position we've held for many years.
Aflac U.S.
generated a 4.5% increase in new annualized premium sales in the first quarter which is right in line with our annual sales expectations of a 3% to 8% sales increase.
Keep in mind the majority of our enrollments were in the fourth quarter.
Aflac U.S.
revenues rose 5.2% and pretax earnings were up 8.1% for the quarter.
I would also note that first quarter of 2012 our persistency remained very strong.
We continue to expand Aflac's potential to connect with employees at more companies large and small.
And as you'll recall our strategy for growth is to offer relevant products through expanded distribution channels to reach those employees.
While the U.S.
economy has shown some signs of recovery we believe smaller employers continue to find the environment challenging and we still remain somewhat cautious until we see greater gains in the employment trend.
However the 2009 addition of group products to our existing portfolio has allowed us to leverage Aflac's strong brand and to provide more options for customers of both our traditional and broker distribution channels.
We will continue to sell through smaller businesses while also engaging in large case market which is dominated by the large brokers.
At the beginning of this year we launched an initiative to address the largest insurance brokers.
We believe that Aflac's potential for growth in the larger case market is tremendous.
Keep in mind building relationships and trust with larger brokers takes time.
It is a process not an event.
But I can tell you that we are making tremendous inroads.
You'll hear more about this at the analyst meeting in May.
With both operating segments continuing to perform well as I've said investments in capital management are my top priorities as CEO.
In that regard I'm extremely pleased with our activities in the quarter.
Let me begin with investments.
Our realized investment losses for the first quarter were $29 million.
Let me take you back to our discussions at the end of the fourth quarter.
You'll recall we identified a group of assets with larger risks to European countries with the intent to sell those assets.
We impaired those assets to fair market value at the end of the fourth quarter.
This strategy did not reflect the change in opinion on the credits of these assets but rather well-defined plan to reduce our overall exposure to Europe particularly in the financial sector.
Our goal was to reduce our exposure to European financials by approximately JPY 150 billion by June 30.
I am pleased to report to you that we have liquidated more than 85% of that target.
I'm also very encouraged that we have substantially completed this program and on top of that the prices we received for these securities were generally better than the price that we had impaired them to at the end of the fourth quarter.
With respect to derisking I'm very pleased that we made significant progress in enhancing the quality of our overall investment portfolio.
Volatility in Europe lessened in the first quarter but since the end of March it's increased somewhat.
Keep in mind we reduced our overall European exposure from $29.5 billion at the end of 2011 to $27.2 billion at the end of the first quarter.
So potential impact to further European volatility on our investment portfolio is lower.
While we still view Europe as an area of investment risk I believe our portfolio is better positioned to accommodate market volatility in the future.
As always we will closely monitor evaluate and reevaluate our portfolio with an eye for credit issues that may emerge.
Let me remind you of how successful we've been in substantially enhancing our investment portfolio over the last few years.
From January 2008 to the end of the first quarter of 2012 we've dramatically cut our holdings in sovereign and financial investments in the PIIGS countries from 5.9% to 2.1% of total investments in cash.
We also lowered our investments in perpetual securities by more than half going from 14.7% of total investments and cash to 5.5% or $5.5 billion.
I'd also like to point out that none of the perpetual securities we currently own are in the PIIGS countries.
As we pursue opportunistic investment transactions we will continue to look for ways to reduce our exposure to European debt.
I'll also update you on a few other investment topics.
As you'll recall we engaged the services of McKinsey a leading management consulting firm to conduct a strategic and global review of our investment processes people and system.
McKinsey's analysis includes key recommendations relating to the creation of a global investment organization with complementary risk management credit asset allocation and outsourcing capabilities that enhance our ability to be a world-class investment organization.
With the analysis complete you'll hear more about this in May.
But let me say I'm very pleased with our strategy to build and enrich the capabilities of our investment function as is our Board of Directors.
Additionally as we also discussed we partnered with Goldman Sachs Asset Management to conduct a comprehensive strategic asset allocation project that accounts for Aflac's specific liabilities and capital requirements.
We engaged this study to develop an investment program that will likely expand our investment opportunities beyond what our current programs afford us.
We expect this analysis to be finished by the end of June and it will impact how we invest in different asset classes including the implementation of outsourcing to third-party investment managers.
Once we get the results we will be able to share this with you in more detail.
A global strategic asset allocation program that presents an opportunity for us to significantly improve the risk and return profile of our balance sheet.
We know that there are new investment opportunities that Aflac can take advantage of and we expect this project to help us with strategy going forward.
We believe these efforts will improve benefits to the policy holders and shareholders in terms of higher quality of future investment earnings.
The success of derisking activities included the receipt of deferred coupon that allowed us to accelerate the funding of this critical global initiative while still achieving our operating earnings per share objective this year.
While it's too early to discuss our strategy in detail Eric is on the call today and I'm sure he'll be happy to respond to your questions.
What I can tell you is that we believe that by considering a broader set of asset classes and investment opportunities we will improve the overall quality of the portfolio over the long term.
Now I'll turn to Aflac's consolidated financial performance.
Operating earnings per diluted share rose 7.4% to $1.74 for the quarter excluding the benefit from the stronger yen operating earnings per diluted share rose 4.9% for the quarter.
We also had a strong quarter with respect to our capital position.
The strength of our capital ratios demonstrates our commitment to maintaining financial strength on behalf of our policyholders and bondholders as well as the shareholders.
As we've communicated over the past several years maintaining a strong risk-based capital or RBC ratio remains a priority for us.
Although we have not yet finalized our statutory financial statements we estimate our RBC ratio was between 500 and 540 at the end of March which is considerable increase from our year end of 493.
As you know our capital adequacy in Japan is particularly -- is principally measured by our solvency margin ratio.
We also expect that Aflac Japan's solvency margin ratio improved significantly over year end 2011.
I believe we've done a good job at protecting our policyholders' interest while also being mindful of the shareholders.
We increased our cash dividend to shareholders in 2011 for the 29th consecutive year.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at the rate in line with our earnings per share before the impact of the yen.
I believe dividends are an important component of the value we provide the investors.
We will again evaluate a dividend increase as the year progresses but I am confident we will extend our consecutive annual dividend increases to 30 years.
As we have indicated given our capital structure our ability to repurchase shares is largely tied to profit repatriation.
We mentioned on our fourth quarter call we estimated 2012 profit repatriation to be about JPY 25 billion assuming no additional material investment losses through Aflac Japan's FSA fiscal year end.
We still believe that's a reasonable estimate.
We will make a decision about the amount of money we will transfer from Japan to the U.S.
around mid-year.
In thinking of that decision we'll be taking into consideration the needs of our stakeholders in Japan including our policyholders but we will continue to be cautious about deploying that capital.
If we do purchase any shares this year it would be late in the fourth quarter.
Keep in mind there are many factors involved in this decision and we'll closely monitor our options.
Importantly we don't need to repurchase shares to make our 2012 earnings.
Furthermore assuming we incur no material investment losses between now and mid-2013 we would expect to maintain a strong solvency margin ratio and significant capacity for profit repatriation and share repurchase.
You'll recall we previously shared that our 2012 operating earnings objective was 2% to 5% growth before currency.
We expect the new accounting for DAC to lower earnings per share by approximately $0.05 this year.
However we believe we can cover that impact and still achieve our original target of $6.46 to $6.65 per diluted share before the currency.
That means our range for this year increased actually to 3% to 6% over the restated 2011 numbers.
We will give you details about 2013 outlook at the analyst meeting next month as we do each year.
But I can say that we still expect the rate of earnings growth in 2013 to improve over 2012.
I am very excited about the opportunities ahead for Aflac.
We remain focused on our vision to be the leading provider of voluntary insurance in the United States and the #1 provider of supplemental insurance in Japan.
Now I'll turn the program back over to Robin.
Robin? Thanks Dan.
Let me briefly go through some first quarter numbers starting with Aflac Japan.
In terms of the top line revenues were up 7.8% and investment income was up 8.7% benefiting from the receipt of a previously deferred coupon payment that was received as the results of the derisking activities in the first quarter.
Our annualized persistency rate was strong at 94.5% compared with 94.3% in 2011.
The benefit ratio to total premiums increased over last year going from 69.7% to 71.5% primarily caused by the growth of net benefit reserves for ordinary life's line of products.
The expense ratio was 18.1% down from 18.7% a year ago primarily impacted by lower net commissions associated with the sale of life products.
As a result the higher benefit ratio the pretax margin declined from 22.3% in the quarter to 21.3%.
Turning to Aflac U.S.
total revenues rose 5.2% in the first quarter and the benefit ratio to total premiums increased slightly to 55.1% compared with 54.9% a year ago.
The operating expense ratio decreased from 32.1% to 31.4% primarily due to lower advertising expenditures.
Reflecting the decrease in the operating expense ratio the profit margin for the quarter was 19.6% compared with 19.1% a year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter.
As you probably read in the press release on January 1 2012 we adopted revised accounting guidance for DAC.
The retrospective adoption resulted in an after-tax cumulative charge to retained earnings of $408 million or 3.9% of adjusted shareholders' equity as of December 31 2010 and had an immaterial impact on net income in 2011 and the preceding years.
The increase in interest expense was primarily impacted by the borrowings during 2011 and the first quarter in 2012.
Due to those borrowings it helped also increase Parent Company [Audio Gap] the end of fourth quarter which was $942 million versus $385 million at the end of 2011.
Parent Company and other expenses increased to $20 million compared to $14 million in the first quarter of 2011 primarily caused by several items including foreign exchange losses on yen-denominated cash at the inc [ph] level and other general operating expense increases associated with personnel and special projects.
Total company operating margins decreased reflecting the increase of the benefit ratio in Japan and caused by the increased sales of the ordinary life line of business.
On our operating basis the tax rate remained relatively unchanged at 34.7% and net earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $1.68 compared to $0.83 in 2011.
As reported our operating earnings per diluted share rose 7.4% to $1.74.
As previously mentioned our operating earnings benefited by the $23 million or $0.05 per share from the onetime receipt of the previously written-off deferred coupon.
The stronger yen increased operating earnings by $0.04 per diluted share excluding the yen impact operating earnings per share increased 4.9% for the quarter.
Lastly let me comment on the earnings outlook for 2012.
The new accounting for DAC will impact earnings per share by approximately $0.05.
We expect to produce operating earnings of $6.46 to $6.65 per diluted share on a constant currency basis.
This range represents an increase of 3% to 6% over 2011.
If the yen averages 80 to 85 for the full year we would expect operating EPS to be in the area of $6.21 to $6.64 per diluted share.
And for the second quarter if the yen averages 80 to 85 we would expect operating earnings to be $1.53 to $1.59 per diluted share.
I want to take this opportunity to remind all of you that our annual analyst meeting will be held in New York on May 15 and 16.
There we'll be able to provide you with further updates on our operations in both U.S.
and Japan along with our outlook for the coming year.
Please register to attend.
Now to be fair to everybody we're going to start Q&amp;A but limit yourself to only one question and a follow-up related to that one question.
Now we'll be glad to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just wanted to clarify a piece of the more positive commentary on '13 EPS.
I guess our assumption would be that there'll be buyback in there.
And so can you confirm that JPY 45 billion would still be the target for repatriation in 2013? Actually the repatriation number for 2013 we cited was -- we previously said I think close to JPY 95 billion and now our best estimate is about JPY 90 billion.
So that amount would be available for transfer from Aflac Japan to Aflac U.S.
and presumably a portion of that would be available for share repurchase or other capital management activities including funding of shareholder dividend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the related follow-up to that is that I guess the way we heard it the active derisking program is over.
And so is that a correct conclusion meaning that we probably wouldn't expect as much proactive credit losses working against that JPY 90 billion going forward? Let me just say we'll ask Eric Berg to -- Kirsch Berg Berg on my mind okay.
I apologize for that.
But we'll ask Eric to respond to that.
Thank you Kriss.
In terms of a targeted active derisking program we are primarily complete.
As Dan said we have gone a little over JPY 130 billion our target is JPY 150 billion so we still have a little bit more to go with respect to that program.
Beyond that there isn't any specific targeted program.
But let me remind everybody of course Europe continues to have volatility with respect to the political and the monetary situation.
And we of course continue to have holdings there.
So we will be vigilant on our analysis both from a macro standpoint as well as from a credit standpoint.
But at this juncture we don't see a reason to have an active program.
So you could see us take tactical actions as might be appropriate but no large targeted program other than the completion of what we've got going which is well over 80% complete.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for Eric as well.
At first on the new money yield it continues to drop I think it was 203 basis points in the first quarter almost 100 basis points lower than last year.
So can you discuss where you're allocating new money and what the investment environment's like? It seems like it's still challenging.
And then related to rates Dan you mentioned you're expecting to reprice some of your products over the next year or so.
How do you expect that to affect your sales? And are you assuming that other competitors will follow suit when you raise prices as well? So I'll handle the first part of that question before handing it over to Dan with respect to where we're investing new money.
In the short term meaning since I've joined in November I am currently operating under our existing global investment policies and guidelines.
Between the McKinsey project and the GSAM project we will expect to see very positive changes all of those that allow us to take advantage of new and different opportunities for Aflac.
But in the meantime relative to our investment universe we're investing approximately 70% to 80% of our new money in JGBs somewhere around 20% plus or minus in private placements primarily out of Asia.
As you all recollect we stopped investing in Europe given our macro exposures shortly after I joined.
So those opportunities are resulting in a yield of about 2% plus or minus.
And my expectation is for the foreseeable future at least interest rates in Japan our base currency for the Japan business segment aren't going to change all that much.
They might go up or down a few basis points.
And I don't necessarily expect the allocation in the short term between JGBs and privates and I should add we have increased our allocation to bank loans and we'll continue to fund that through the end of the second quarter to materially change.
However a broader question which I'll just touch on briefly we do expect the results of our GSAM study to be complete June and that will allow us to amend our global investment policies with the continued buildout of people and infrastructure from the McKinsey project we'll be able to add resources.
I would expect later this year most likely in the fourth quarter where you'll see us actually investing in different things than we have historically because we'll have everything ready for that.
I also want to mention that with respect to new dollar money yields our target is 3.25% and we're well exceeding that we're at a number over 4% with respect to new investments in the U.S.
And in regard to the repricing let me just say first of all we're not pleased with interest rates where they are which is no shock to any of you.
And we are adjusting to this lower interest rate environment.
This goes back to I can remember in the '80s I had a situation where we were selling single premium dementia.
The difference was is that all of a sudden interest rates dropped so much I had to cold turkey just stop everything.
In the case of what's going on with WAYS and the interest rate environment we are not in that position.
It's not -- the interest rate is not where we want it to be but it's still a profitable situation for us.
Saying that we are adjusting quotas and trying to get less production.
We are in the process of looking at repricing.
I can't speak for other companies but what I can say is is in the past it's been more of a herd mentality than an individual company.
Everyone seems to go at the same time because all of us are impacted in the same way.
So I would think that when we go back that you'll find others but I can't speak for other companies and what will take place.
We had such a downward spiral so quickly we're moving as fast as we can to reposition and do that.
But it just is a little slower than we ever like for it to be.
The good news is is later on if it spikes back up it's slower also on the other side.
So in the meantime we are working toward that Jimmy and I can't give you specifics on what the interest rate assumption will be but it will be in line to where our profit margin is back to where it used to be is what we're working toward.
Our next question comes from Ed Spehar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dan the question I have is is it fair to say that you would not be pleased with the sales momentum of WAYS if you anticipated no change in new money yields in the second half of the year? Well what I think I would say is is that the 5 pay [ph] we definitely do not want and are working toward although it is profitable because of the disintermediation we would prefer not having it.
So we're moving away from that.
The thing I want is the bank channel.
I think it offers great opportunity for us.
Our products are more profitable than the life insurance products that we would compete with.
So we have an advantage over the competitors in that respect that we hold that market.
In the meantime I want to see the others.
So am I -- do I like the interest rate environment we have right now in the yield? No.
Do I think it's better to have it than not have it? Yes.
I think it's better and I think -- and Kriss will go over in much detail but as I said in my little talk it's 8% to 12% profit margin.
And although I wish it was 13% to 17% at 2.25% I'm still glad to get it.
But I'd rather write -- let me be clear I'd rather write medical insurance than I had WAYS or life insurance products.
But that's not an option.
It's not that you replace one with the other.
If our existing distribution channel was changing to where they were stopping the sale of one and changing to the other that would be very alarming and something we would have to stop immediately.
But this is a new channel that is brought on with a profit margin of 8% to 12%.
And although I like the higher profit margin last year I still like getting 8% to 12% but I wish it was much better.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Dan I guess the follow-up is that you said a couple times about how it's still profitable.
I think you just mentioned that it's a better return than the life competitor products that are in the channel.
I guess though that that's a very -- that could imply a very different marginal return for the company that's historically had a 25% ROE.
So I guess I'm hoping that either now or certainly at Investor Day that we can get into sort of very specifically what type of marginal returns we're thinking about for this business because there's a long way between a profitable product and a 25% ROE.
Well what I would say to that and I'll have Kriss respond is we want our profitable product of our medical to stay in that range and that's ultimately our objective.
But our objective is to try to find a way to expand that medical product.
And one way to expand that medical product is to bring on new customers.
And the way you bring on new customers can be many ways.
We can spend money on advertising to do it or we can offer a WAYS product that brings on new people.
But ultimately I want to get more people on the books to where I can add medical and other products in the future that will be in line with the profit margins that we like to attain.
Kriss you want to make any comment? Yes Ed I promised you all to give you more information on the split between health and life.
And I'll do that in detail at the FAB and give you some indication on margins there.
But today let me just give you a few brief observations that we've got.
Today roughly 75% of our profits are coming out of health products and 25% out of other products.
And we don't expect that mix to change a lot between now and the next 2 or 3 years even though we're writing a lot of WAYS.
We have been writing some other nonhealth products and the like and WAYS has taken place of that some and WAYS is actually somewhat more profitable than those other nonhealth products that we had like annuity and dementia and the like.
So the margins on the life products as a percent of premium are going to be going forward about the same as they are today to slightly less.
I'm looking at numbers as a percent of premium like 14% margin this year 12% last year.
I think we're going to maintain that 12% to 14% on the life products for the next 3 years.
And I think the health products will continue to have a margin in the neighborhood of 24% of premium going forward and that'll be 75% of our profits 3 years from now.
So we're not going to see a major major decline in overall profitability.
I'll just leave it there for right now Ed.
Our next question comes from Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> First things first.
How about I ask questions about the...
[indiscernible] on investments for us Eric? LLC Research Division</strong> No no no.
I was going to say how about I -- I was going to start by saying how about I ask the questions about your investment portfolio and I will leave to your new Chief Investment Officer who is an excellent choice the business of answering the questions how does that sound? You're on my mind Eric.
That's all.
LLC Research Division</strong> I appreciate it very much.
All joking aside I actually have just one question only about this disintermediation that you've been referencing several times.
My question is this one to what extent is it already going on? And two why is it going on in the sense that historically Aflac's products have not had much cash surrender value? At least that's what [indiscernible] historically or most of the history of the company.
So presumably there couldn't be much -- I'm trying to get a sense for the incentive of the surrender charges.
Surrender charges are only powerful -- only have a powerful incentive if there's a lot of cash value in there.
So it's sort of a two-part related question to what extent is the disintermediation going on and to what extent will these surrender charges really make a difference given the historical low cash surrender value of your products? Eric I'll handle that.
Disintermediation is not going on at the moment.
It's something that we've started examining internally as a potential issue.
I mean anytime you sell a product that has high cash value which 5 pay [ph] WAYS does at the end of the premium period relative to where it's going to be you have to worry about -- if you get a spike in interest rates is that going to be hot money to the policyholders? Are they going to take the money that they invested in a product priced at 1.85% and move it to a product priced at some higher interest rate assuming interest rates move up? So we've been sensitive to that but we have not observed it so far.
What we've concluded is that if interest rates did spike say from the 2% zone to the 3% zone and you did get policyholder behavior to try to replace the old product with a newer product what would be the impact on our net cash flow.
And we've looked at it and if 100% of the people surrendered their products it'd be a fairly low percent of our net cash flow that we would have to pay out as surrender values we would not have to liquidate any existing investments and incur capital losses.
Obviously we would forgo investment income on those proceeds but we would have the benefit of the higher investment yields on the remainder of the new money.
And so we think that on balance that we're pretty good in that regard.
At present though we are taking steps to limit the production of 5 pay [ph] WAYS just to be defensive for the future.
Just a little insight in the product design our current product has a surrender charge of about 30% of the ultimate value at the end of 5 years when the policy becomes paid up.
And it's only when the policy becomes paid up that the cash value's 100% of the reserve.
So you and I both know from having lived through the annuity stuff in the '80s in the U.S not nearly 100% of consumers surrender policies even if we've got higher interest rates in the environment.
So I don't think it's going to be that extreme if interest rates spike.
And I to tell you the truth I'd almost prefer that they spike to some extent.
That's all.
LLC Research Division</strong> I would think that with a [indiscernible] people would want to cash in their contracts.
You broke up a little bit Eric.
Tell me again.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was saying that with the 30% haircut I would think that very few people would want to cash in their contracts.
Well that's what I'm saying.
That's not going on today.
We don't have any disintermediation occurring at the moment.
We're just looking down the road 5 years from now on contracts we're writing today what's our exposure to that.
We're going to be sure that as part of our investment strategy if we can work that in as an exposure we want to try to integrate that into our strategy even though I don't think it's that big a deal at the moment.
Our next question comes from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Just on the 5 pay [ph] WAYS where you're limiting sales.
Can you clarify just how large a portion of your total WAYS sales that represents? Are there any other products where you're also looking at putting in caps? And was the margin on that product meaningfully different to your other WAYS products? Nigel I don't know if I caught all of that but let me address the margin portion of it.
With regard to the 5 pay [ph] WAYS clearly the margin is lowest when a policyholder surrenders at the end of the paid-up period or 5-year premium period.
We don't get to hold the funds.
We don't earn any more spread.
We go ahead and have to pay out.
So that's the lowest margin.
But the policyholder does have the option to continue it under the life option.
And the life option is kind of the medium version of profitability and that's the one we primarily focus on when we're quoting profit margins.
They also have the option to convert to medical insurance at a specified age and we believe that the policies that do convert to medical will have more medical-like profitability going forward after that election date.
The medical coverage would be obtainable at rates in effect at the date of the election but without regard to evidence of insurability.
So that's the case.
And then the other products are primarily designed to be paid up at a retirement age that the policyholder chooses like 60 65 and the like.
So some of those are bought by people in their 50s and they're relatively shorter pay too.
But it's primarily the 5 pay [ph] that we thought we had some exposure on and we're trying to make sure we recognize the risk and built it into our planning.
Nigel to give you a flavor for the impact of WAYS on our in-force only about 2% of our in-force policy are WAYS.
And of the WAYS sales this quarter somewhere between 40% and 50% was the 5 pay [ph].
But remember what Dan said we only started selling 5 pay [ph] during mid year last year.
Our next question comes from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Since you're sort of giving us a couple of I guess peeks into more of the detail that you'll provide to us next month at the FAB meeting I was hoping you could give us a peek at what you believe the return on equity is or the differential in return on equity is for WAYS let's say versus your more traditional medical or cancer products.
Okay John.
I'll start that discussion.
At a 2.5% yield rate which is where we were at the beginning of 2011 we estimated that our ROE used in the statutory type investment target our ROE would be about 20%.
20% 21% on WAYS at the 2.5% investment yield.
Now the required capital doesn't go down and it doesn't go up much with the change in the interest rate.
So to the extent that the return goes down the ROE's going to go down.
So instead of a 21% return or 20% you get closer to 10% at 2%.
So that's kind of the overall flavor of that.
Now you can say well 10% ROE does that exceed the cost of capital and then you have to start discussing well what kind of capital do you require to support that? And typically we've thought of our yen-denominated Japanese products as requiring a lower cost to capital than U.S.-based production.
And that could be the subject of discussion.
But that's the concept as equity the invested equity doesn't change much the return's lower so the return on equity is lower.
Research Division</strong> And then just as a follow-up that's very helpful.
Just as a follow-up I think Robin in response to Nigel's question mentioned that only about 2% of in-force policies today are WAYS.
Is that 2% of the actual policy count or is that 2% of your in-force premium? That's policies and about 8% of the in-force premium today is WAYS.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just as a comment I guess the most important question would be at 2% to wherever you reprice WAYS.
The question is whether the capital would be better used for share repurchase? That's just my 2 cents.
But on that topic of capital in Japan RGA's recent investor day your former CFO of the Japanese operations Allan O'Bryant was talking about activity in Japan surrounding foreign companies doing reserve securitization.
And apparently the FSA accounting for life products is even much more conservative than you than the statutory requirements used here.
I was wondering if you guys can comment on that and were possibly looking at such a transaction? All right Steven I'll handle that.
You are correct in that the FSA accounting and reserving standards are more conservative than both U.S.
statutory standards and U.S.
GAAP standards.
So the surplus strain of the -- is significantly larger on an FSA basis than it is on a U.S.
statutory basis and we're going to give you some more detail on that again at the FAB meeting.
I will say that not necessarily because of that directly but because of our interest in demonstrating our ability to take steps to protect our solvency margin in Japan we did choose to enter a reinsurance agreement at the end of fiscal -- March 31 2012 for FSA reporting and we did choose to enter what essentially is a surplus relief financing reinsurance arrangement with a company to reinsure the new business production or a portion of the new business production for our major health products.
We realized a ceding [ph] commission that would be recognized as income on an FSA basis and go to surplus on an FSA basis of about JPY 19 billion.
And that essentially is a financing transaction Steve.
And it's not recognized as risk sharing reinsurance for either U.S.
statutory or U.S.
GAAP and therefore it's ignored on those bases.
But the FSA does recognize that as reinsurance arrangement for FSA reporting purposes.
And we did it not because we needed the surplus relief this year but we did it partly to demonstrate that we could do it and that we had the mechanics in place in the event that we ever felt like we needed it.
And it would constitute a buffer to the solvency margin ratio in the event of a significant increase in interest rates that would cause our available-for-sale assets to be carried into somewhat lower value on the balance sheet than they are today.
I want to make -- go ahead you all finish that and I got one other comment on that ...
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Well I was going to say I was kind of interested if there was anything or if you were looking at anything on the life side as opposed to the health side? [indiscernible] I mean the health side is still a substantial amount of our new business and the profit patterns on the health business are -- they've been there for years and years and years.
It was easier for the reinsurer to get comfortable with that quickly than it was on the new life products.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Steven I want to make one comment when you said about the 2%.
The only comment I want to make is I want to be clear we're not satisfied with the 2%.
That's the reason we're going to be filing for lower interest rate assumptions.
We agree that that's not where we want to be and either a the rates have got to move back up.
But in the meantime if they don't then we're filing for lower.
And then in addition to that we're hoping that Eric and his team will find things other than JGBs to be buying that will give us higher investment yields that will help offset that too.
So let's just -- I just want to be very clear that we're not at all happy at 2% but -- and we'll be looking for ways to enhance that the profit margin going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> No I understand that Dan.
My point simply was is that that all in that -- where you're priced at all in I think the key is that you can do better than buying back your stock at 6x earnings.
Right.
I got it.
Thank you.
We're almost at the top of the hour so we've got time for one more question.
Our final question comes from Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just wanted to follow up on the repricing question.
Do you require FSA approval to change the pricing on the WAYS product? And I guess I'm a little surprised that with the interest rates where they are in Japan that the FSA hasn't imposed pricing increases as they had in the past.
I'll give you a little color on that Joanne.
The FSA reviews the pricing activity for all the large companies.
They do permit us to price within a range of interest rates and the like.
And the reference interest rate is generally referred to as the standard interest rate.
The standard interest rate has been 1.5% since I think it was 2001 maybe 2002.
But the standard interest rate is determined based on an average of 10-year JGB auctions recent auctions.
And there's a mechanical formula that dictates when the standard interest rate gets changed.
And I think we're approaching the point where if the 10-year JGB stays at less than 1% for a number of months then it's possible that the standard interest rate would be decreased to 1%.
And that would be effective for reserving all new business written in Japan and that would tend to incentivize companies to change rates so that they could avoid excess reserves associated with policies priced at interest rates in excess of the standard valuation interest rate.
So that's what Dan referred to as everybody will probably move at once.
And that's probably what we would react to.
We do have some pricing flexibility with respect to other portions of our products such as the interest rate used in the discounted advance premium fund and the like that we have some more discretion with respect to and we're evaluating.
Obviously we can't speak for the FSA I'm just giving you color as to what my understanding of the general situation is.
But I know that we consult with the FSA when we're going to reprice products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I just want to ask one unrelated question to this really for Paul.
The recruiting in the first quarter in the U.S.
was pretty weak.
Can you just comment on that? Recruiting in the U.S.
was up 0.6%.
We still had a larger quarter than we did any of the 4 quarters in 2011.
I feel comfortable with the number of recruits that we had in Q1.
Obviously we're looking to lever that number up over the longer term.
But to be honest with you Joanne I think that our career channel is focused on a balance between growing our new agents as well as the strong success that we've had out of our veteran agents and then really the growth side of the U.S.
continues to be the broker market.
And so I'm less concerned about the recruiting numbers at this time.
And I think there are strong reasons for continued growth going forward.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
If you'd like to follow-up with any questions my colleague Tom McDaniel and I will be here so please e-mail us or call us and we'll be glad to follow-up on anything.
Thank you and we look forward to seeing you at the analyst meeting in May.
This concludes today's conference.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Aflac Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would like -- I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Thank you and good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter conference call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Eric Kirsch First Senior Vice President Chief Global Investment Officer.
And joining us remotely this morning is Toru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan who joins us from Tokyo.
Before we start this morning let me remind you that some of the statements in the teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities law.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discussed today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly reports for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn to program over this morning to Dan who will begin with some comments about the quarter and our operations in Japan and the United States.
I'll then follow up with a few financial highlights for the second quarter and then we'll be glad to take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Let me begin this morning with a review of Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
We were again pleased with Aflac Japan's strong financial performance and sales momentum that continued in the second quarter.
Following 2 tremendous years and an impressive first quarter new annualized premium sales rose 47.4% to JPY 53.2 billion in the second quarter.
These results again greatly surpassed our expectations and set a production record for the fourth straight quarter.
For the first half of the year Aflac Japan's totaled new annualized premiums in yen rose 50.5%.
Aflac Japan's revenues grew by 9.2% for the quarter and 8.5% for the first 6 months.
Pretax earnings for the quarter were JPY 77 billion up 2.4%; and for the 6 months pretax earnings were JPY 160 billion up 2.8%.
Premium income increased 9.7% for the quarter and 8.8% for the 6 months benefiting from the stronger sales of our WAYS product.
I would also note that persistency remained strong.
The bank channel generated JPY 24.7 billion in sales which represents an increase of 224% over the second quarter of 2011.
The bank channel accounted for 46.5% of Aflac Japan's total sales and the traditional accounted for 51.9%.
From a product perspective WAYS our unique hybrid whole-life product continued as the top seller in the second quarter generating an increase of 259% over 2011 and accounting for 45% of the total second quarter sales.
Our cancer and medical insurance accounted for 13.4% and 16.9% of total sales in the quarter respectively.
I would point out that we expect our new nonstandard medical product introduced this week to benefit medical sales in the second half of the year.
You may recall that we started selling the 5-pay version of WAYS product through the banks in June of 2011.
As we've previously discussed we have taken action to limit the production of the 5-pay version of WAYS to address the possibility of disintermediation risk in the event of interest rates increase significantly.
Now virtually all banks have reached their sales cap by 5-pay WAYS for the year.
Our traditional sales channels will stop sales of all 5-pay WAYS on August 1.
Except for a little spillover business we don't expect the contribution of 5-pay WAYS to impact third quarter sales.
Banks have a very strong distribution outlook for Aflac Japan.
Compared with the U.S.
banks Japanese banks interact with the customers and consumers through more touch points offering a broader scope of transaction.
As such consumers in Japan tend to have more face-to-face interaction with the banks often developing strong loyalties.
This is true from the smallest villages to the largest cities.
The bank channel networks of about 20 000 branches gives us a far-reaching access to consumers we've never had the chance to do business with otherwise.
The bank channel helps expand our customer base.
Today about 80% of the bank channel sales are new customers.
Over the past 6 years we've invested significant efforts in the developing relationship with banks.
I will remind you that we secured agreements with more than 90% of the banks in Japan a number we believe is significantly greater than any of our competitors.
Selling WAYS appeals to banks because this product is significantly higher premium generates attractive commissions.
Consumers like the WAYS product because it provides a safe and more appealing alternative to bank accounts that pay less than 10 basis points.
From Aflac's view as I've said before WAYS gave us the opportunity to generate about a 10% profit margin for life insurance while providing a new distribution channel.
If there was a choice I'd prefer to sell more profitable third-sector products over the first-sector products like WAYS.
But let me remind you swapping out first-sector sales with third-sector sales simply isn't an option.
However we have tremendous access through the bank channel and that gives us an opportunity to cross-sell our more profitable medical and cancer products.
We're also employing our strategies to enhance the profitability of child endowment in WAYS product.
This is especially important in the current low interest-rate environment.
Starting in October the discounted advance premium rate or DAP purchase option available for both products will be reduced.
While we're in the process of communicating with the FSA our plan is to reduce the rate by 50% going from 1% to 0.5% credit.
You'll recall that the DAP is the interest we credit to the policyholders when they choose to pay their premium upfront.
Additionally as we told you at the Analyst Meeting we will lower the assumed interest rate on pricing for the sales of WAYS in child endowment products starting in April of 2013.
I would add that the second half of 2012 sales results will be impacted by several factors: first we will stop the sale of 5-pay WAYS which of course will hurt sales; second the tough sales comparison from the second half of 2011 will make the latter half of 2012 challenging; and third it's important to note that even with the headwinds I've just mentioned the popularity of the products and the broad selection especially with WAYS continues to appeal to consumers.
As such we believe new annualized premium sales in the second half of the year will be flat to up 5%.
However combining the second half sales expectation with the tremendous sales growth we produced in the first half of the year we are revising our numbers upward in terms of the sales target to 22% to 25%.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operation.
Aflac U.S.
revenues grew by 5.2% both for the quarter and for the 6 months.
Pretax earnings were up 6.3% for the quarter and 7.2% for the 6 months.
Premium income increased 5.5% for the quarter and 5.3% for the 6 months.
I would also note that policy persistency remained very strong.
We believe there are several reasons for this including some factors that we have control over and some we don't.
One with the economic uncertainty over the last several years workers have been more reluctant to switch jobs.
Additionally we enhanced communication with our policyholders at critical decision-making times which we believe has contributed to make an improvement in the policyholder retention rate.
We believe these efforts have contributed to better persistency both for the policyholders and the payroll accounts.
Aflac U.S.
new annualized premium rose 1.5% for the quarter.
For the first half of the year total new sales rose 3% which is in line with the annual sales target of 3% to 8% increase.
Keep in mind with the majority of the enrollments occurring in the fourth quarter we expect sales results to improve.
Sales for our group products remained strong.
Our veteran associates continue to benefit from the ability to offer group and individual products.
While some aspects of the U.S.
economy have shown slight signs of improvement this year we continue to see the economic landscape is challenging.
Given that our products are primarily sold at small businesses gains in employment increased our universe of potential policyholders.
Until we see sustained growth in employment levels we remain cautious.
While we can't control the challenging economic climate in the U.S.
we certainly can position our business to maximize the potential for success in the current environment.
That's exactly what we've done over the last several years and we are closely monitoring the proposed changes in the U.S.
health care delivery system.
Health care reform was never intended to address voluntary or supplemental insurance.
Therefore the Supreme Court's decision last month does not directly impact our business or the need for our products.
However we believe that it can have an indirect impact.
It could present with opportunities for continued growth in this market.
For Aflac voluntary insurance sold at the work site large and small remains our primary focus.
As we've seen in Japan a system of national health care actually enhances the awareness in the need of our product such as ours.
Our competitive advantage as the market leader in the U.S.
gives us new opportunities.
For example many brokers are looking to Aflac's supplemental of voluntary insurance for solutions for a couple of levels: first we're seeking to replace lost commissions from declining major medical business; second employers that are subject to Affordable Care Act have been asking brokers for ways to help control their health care costs.
Whether the answer is to shift more costs to the employees reduce benefits or both we believe Aflac can be a big part of the solution for employers and their employees.
With our strong brand we believe consumers will be more receptive to hearing how Aflac products can help.
This opens up greater possibilities for traditional sales force and the broker channel alike.
Having updated you on the operational side of the business let me give you some details about our Global Investment division.
For the last several years our primary focus has been on investment risk management while investing our significant cash flows and assets that are relatively higher quality and liquidity.
As you know we have made significant progress into proactively derisking our portfolio over the last 3 years to enhance the strength of our balance sheet.
In the process we've been reducing our exposure to riskier asset classes including perpetual [indiscernible] and financials especially in Europe.
You've heard us say many times before that we expect to see volatility in Europe and that's exactly what we've seen in the second quarter.
Our second quarter net after-tax realized investment losses were $272 million.
These losses are primarily attributable to the decision to impair 2 Spanish holdings.
In addition we experienced further declines in the value of several securities we've previously impaired in the fourth quarter of 2011 related to the intent to sell.
Although our total realized losses in the second quarter were higher than the first quarter of this year they are significantly lower than the second quarter of last year.
We still view Europe as an area of potential risk.
As always we closely monitor and reevaluate our portfolio with the eye for credit issues that may emerge.
However I believe our portfolio is better positioned now to accommodate market volatility.
Now I'd like to share with you the progress that we've made on various initiatives related to transforming our investment management organization.
As you'll recall we engaged McKinsey to conduct a strategic global review of our people infrastructure technology and processes.
We are in the process of implementing some of those recommendations in the second quarter.
One recommendation relates to the organizational structure.
Our new framework encompasses the Global Investment group led by executive management team of seasoned professionals and key investment functions.
Recruiting talented investment and business professionals is a top priority we've made significant progress on.
We hired a global chief operating officer for investments along with the chief operating officer for U.S.
investments a head of global credit and a head of trading.
We also hired a number of other professionals in various support roles in both Japan and the United States.
We will continue to build out our staff with talent and expertise to complement our investment strategy going forward.
But let me just say that I am extremely impressed with the caliber of investment veterans Eric Kirsch has hired.
They represent an enormous amount of Wall Street's experience and [indiscernible].
As we move into the third quarter we will be addressing traditional recommend -- additional recommendations such as work stream and technology.
We also engaged Goldman Sachs Asset Management or GSAM to conduct a comprehensive asset allocation review.
This review identified asset allocations that allow us to improve our overall risk return profile by maximizing diversification while accommodating the various constraints to our portfolio such as the RBC and SMR ratios.
GSAM is wrapping up phase 1 of the project this month making it too early to discuss specific asset allocation details today.
However I can highlight several of the findings.
Currently about 99% of the holdings are fixed maturity category primarily invested in JGBs and privately issued securities.
As I've suggested prior to the GSAM engagement we will be looking to invest in a more liquid public securities while still supporting our yen liability.
This week we began investing in dollar-denominated public fixed income securities diversified by the sector and we'll purchase currency hedged to the yen.
This strategy will provide greater liquidity over flexibility of the portfolio.
Further it will help provide opportunities to diversify the investment of significant cash flows beyond JGBs with the objective of producing higher returns.
Our strategic asset allocation will be reviewed on an annual basis and we will make tactical asset allocations continually to reflect current market and business conditions.
Now I'll turn to Aflac's consolidated financial performance.
Operating earnings per share rose 3.9% to $1.61 for the quarter.
Excluding the benefit of the stronger yen operating earnings per diluted share rose 3.2% for the quarter.
We had another strong quarter with respect to capital position.
The strength of our capital ratio demonstrates our commitment to maintaining financial strength on behalf of our policyholders and bondholders as well as shareholders.
As we've communicated over the past several years a strong risk-based capital ratio remains a priority to us.
Although we have not finalized our statutory financial statements we estimate our RBC ratio was between 560% and 600% at the end of June which is up from the year-end number of 493%.
The significant increase in the ratio from year end is due to the first quarter 2012 implementation of the new statutory accounting standards for income taxes.
As you know our capital adequacy in Japan is principally measured by the solvency margin ratio.
We expect that Aflac Japan's solvency margin ratio will remain at the high end of the 500% to 600% target.
As we've indicated given our capital structure our ability to repurchase shares is largely tied to profit repatriation.
Our 2012 profit repatriation was a bit higher than our estimates at JPY 37 billion but we continue to be cautious about deploying capital.
I'll remind you that we don't need to repurchase any shares to achieve our 2012 operating earnings objective.
Given the ongoing European debt and related market volatility we believe it's prudent to be cautious about deploying capital.
However it's still possible that we will repurchase shares in the fourth quarter.
Furthermore we still expect to have significant capacity for profit repatriation and share repurchase in 2013 if we incur no material losses between now and the end of the FSA fiscal year.
I believe we've done a good job in protecting our policyholders' interests while also being mindful of shareholders' needs.
We increased our cash dividend to shareholders in 2011 for the 29th consecutive year.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at the rate in line with the earnings per share growth before the impact of the yen.
I believe dividends are an important component for the value we provide investors.
I am confident that the fourth quarter we will extend the consecutive annual dividend increases to 30 years.
I also believe we've done a very good job in managing our operation including expense control.
However with investments as one of the highest priorities we remain committed to building a world-class investment function.
This transformation requires additional financial resources primarily for personnel improved processes and investment systems.
Fortunately because the first quarter receipt of the deferred coupon we were able to accelerate the funding of this critical global initiative while still achieving our operating earnings per share objectives.
I want to affirm that even with the historically low interest rates excluding currency we expect to achieve our 2012 operating earnings per share of a 3% to 6% increase although toward the end of the low range.
We believe it is reasonable.
Looking ahead I also want to reaffirm 2013 target we gave you at the analyst meeting.
We expect operating per diluted share to increase 4% to 7% in 2013 on a currency-neutral basis.
This earnings objective assumes no significant impact on investment income from losses and no further meaningful decline in interest rates.
We remain focused on our vision to be the leading provider of voluntary insurance in the United States and the #1 provider of supplemental insurance in Japan.
I have confidence in our business model the fundamental need for our products and most importantly the future success of Aflac.
Robin? Thanks Dan.
Let me get through some second quarter numbers starting with Aflac Japan.
Beginning with the top line in yen terms revenues were up strongly at 9.2% for the quarter and investment income was up 6.9%.
The annualized persistency rate excluding annuities for the first half of the year was 94.7% compared with 94.3% a year ago.
In terms of quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio to total premiums increased over the last year going from 69.9% a year ago to 72.2% in the second quarter.
This was caused primarily by the growth of the net benefit reserves for our ordinary life line of products most notably our WAYS product.
The expense ratio for the quarter was 18.4% down from 19.4% a year ago.
The expense ratio was primarily impacted by the lower net commissions associated with the increase in sales of our life products.
As a result the higher benefit ratio with the pretax profit margin declining from 20.9% to 19.6% in the quarter.
For investments for the quarter our cash flows were invested in yen securities at 1.80% and including dollars the blended rate was 1.97%.
The portfolio yield was 3.1% at the end of June which is 8 basis points lower than the end of March and 41 basis points lower than a year ago.
10-year JGBs at the end of June 30 were 0.84% a 15 basis points decrease from March 31.
20-year JGB yields as of June 30 were 1.67% a 9 basis points decrease from March 31.
And 30-year JGB yields as of June 30 were 1.89% a 5 basis points decrease from March 31.
Now turning to Aflac U.S.
Total revenues rose 5.2% in the second quarter.
The benefit ratio to total premiums increased slightly to 57.5% compared with 57.0% a year ago.
The operating expense ratio decreased from 31.3% to 30.6%.
Reflecting the decrease in the operating expense ratio the profit margin for the quarter was 18.3% compared to 18.1% a year ago.
In terms of U.S.
investments the new money yield for the quarter was 4.37% versus 5.72% a year ago.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of June was 6.59% down 7 basis points from the first quarter and 17 basis points from the year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter.
Noninsurance interest expense in the second quarter was $45 million compared to $41 million a year ago.
The increase in interest expense was primarily impacted by the increased borrowings during 2011 and in the first quarter of this year.
Parent company and other expenses increased to $18 million compared to $16 million in the second quarter of 2011.
This increase was caused by several items primarily general operating expenses increase with personnel projects and also other special projects.
Total company operating margins decreased reflecting the increase of the benefit ratio in Japan.
Also our pretax operating margin decreased from 19.3% to 18.3%.
After-tax operating margin decreased from 12.6% to 11.9%.
On an operating basis the tax rate remained relatively unchanged at 34.8%.
Net earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $1.03  -- $1.03 compared with $0.58 in 2011.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share rose 3.9% to $1.61.
The stronger yen increased earnings by $0.01 per diluted share for the quarter.
Excluding the yen's impact our operating earnings per share increased 3.2% for the quarter.
Lastly let me comment on the earnings outlook for the remainder of 2012.
As we mentioned at our analyst meeting and also as Dan reiterated a while ago given the continued low interest rate environment especially in Japan along with the ongoing volatility seen in Europe in the second quarter we expect to see an increase in operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of the yen this year toward the low end of the range of 3% to 6%.
Assuming the low end of 3% to 6% range in operating earnings growth we would expect to earn $6.45 to $6.52 if the yen averages JPY 80 for the year.
With the same exchange rate assumption of JPY 80 to the dollar for the third quarter we would therefore expect operating earnings to be $1.64 to $1.69 per diluted share.
Now I'll be glad to take your questions.
And to be fair to everybody please make sure you limit yourself to 1 question and 1 follow-up.
We're now ready for the questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Nigel Dally of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> With the strategy of investing in the U.S.
and swapping back to Japan can you discuss how much incremental yield you expect to pick up from that strategy? And if rates remain unchanged from current levels what type of Japan new money yields do you expect to achieve in the back half of the year? Sure.
It's Eric Kirsch and I can give you a range of estimates.
I can't give you a precise number just because yields and spreads and different types of purchases could be different depending on market conditions.
But by way of example with this new program that we've initiated that Dan mentioned today we're buying publicly available U.S.
corporate bonds focused in A BBB type of credits.
This strategy will give us greater liquidity greater portfolio flexibility in the future and we're looking at maturities anywhere from 10 to 30 years across the curve.
So ultimately as we build this new portfolio it'll be a combination of those things.
But after taking into account the cost of currency hedges because our strategy is to have this hedged back into our yen liabilities you could be looking at anywhere from again let me emphasize based on current market yields and spreads anywhere from 2.5% to 3.25%.
So if yields and spreads stay where they are today which isn't likely they move as you all know we'd probably be building a portfolio that on average had that kind of yield after the currency hedging costs.
As you know year-to-date because we've been cautious and conservative not buying private placements being much more stringent on our credit standards a majority of our new money was going into JGBs which as Robin mentioned overall year-to-date new money yields is somewhere around 1.85% but on our whole portfolio new money at about 2%.
You could see based on my comments we'll be able to increase the returns fairly significantly while at the same time improving the overall quality diversification and investment opportunities for the portfolio.
The program just got initiated so we will start off in a modest sense as the team is coming together as we work very closely on a global basis.
But I'm confident as each month goes by the impact to that new money yield and our overall investment results will continue to be a great contributor from this new investment program.
Our next question will come from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Eric had mentioned potentially invested 2.5% to 3.25% so curious what that would do to the margin for the WAYS product versus where you're investing today at 2%? I'll take that one.
This is Kriss.
At the FAB meeting we reported that at a 2% new money rate the WAYS profit would range from 8% to 12% of premium.
If that increases at 2.25% the range of profit goes up to 13% to 17% of premium.
And at 2.5% we get up to 17% to 21%.
So I'm looking at this as an opportunity to $1 average up our net investment yield by pursuing this new strategy compared to what we've done over the last 6 to 12 months.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with this investment strategy in place would you guys consider sort of reallowing the 5 WAYS product to be sold in the back half of the year if these are the type of margins you can be generating with a higher investment return? I think that what's more likely to happen is that we'll move to a 10-pay WAYS.
I think that's what the bank channel is going to do.
They're already doing it.
They're already doing it.
The difference there is that the policy is not paid up as quickly.
The full cash values aren't available to the policyholders quite as quickly and therefore it stretches out the period associated with becoming fully paid up and having access to full cash values and what that does is it reduces the risk of potential disintermediation by stretching out the period between the issue date and the paid-up date.
Not that disintermediation is going to occur necessarily in the event of a spike in interest rates but it is a possibility and so we're comfortable that we're doing the right thing and we will probably not reintroduce 5-pay WAYS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Dan you'd mentioned the opportunity to cross-sell the cancer and medical products via the bank distribution.
So curious when you expect that this could take hold just given sales are essentially flat or down for those products despite the robust sales in the bank.
Well actually it's taking place now.
Our sales of medical and cancer are the same number as WAYS.
The difference is is the premium is so high.
So it's actually been taking place.
I think what will drive our increase in sales immediately is going to be the introduction of this new -- what do we call the cancer product the one that -- I mean the medical product -- Gentle EVER which is a higher risk but higher premium.
It's a substandard.
And I think that's going to drive in the second half of the year's sales.
But actually the bank channel's doing quite well on medical and cancer sales.
It's just one night the premium is the problem.
Our next question will come from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow up on the new money rate and the effect of WAYS.
So if I understand this correctly in October you're going to reduce the discount on the advance is that correct? That is correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then beginning next fiscal year you're going to raise the price of WAYS? That is correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So both of those things are going on.
So I guess the question is if you're doing that and Eric could get you 2.50% to 3.25% are we looking at much higher margins than we've seen in the past on this product? Absolutely.
Assuming there's no change from where we are at this moment in interest rates and what's going on that is correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then if I may just stick with Japan as a follow-up.
I know your -- I guess this is a revision of Gentle EVER.
I mean Gentle EVER's been out there right? It's a revision of Gentle EVER.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you happy Dan with the second quarter in traditional? The way I figure it traditional was probably flat quarter-over-quarter.
No.
I'd like stronger sales and certainly it's something that we're looking at and trying to concentrate on in the second half to have our traditional channel pick up.
So I would say that no it's not where I'd like it to be.
But Japan's economy has not been the greatest in the world either.
So not where I want it but we're working on it and I think we'll see improvement going forward.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it just a stale product issue or do you think there's something else? No I think a little bit of our salespeople are selling some of the life insurance that's moved them a little bit; we're moving them back.
And I think they need new products occasionally and I think this Gentle EVER introduction will help them as well.
And our next question will come from Randy Binner of FBR.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the SMR.
I guess from our perspective it seemed surprisingly good considering a few headwinds and still maybe we're wrong in identifying those as headwinds but the repatriation  number I'm assuming is out of the SMR you referenced.
I assume the credit loss is out of there too.
The yen was a little bit stronger.
And so those would be headwinds and then a tailwind would be a lower JGB yield.
So just trying to look for clarification and kind of the moving parts that kept the SMR favorable in the quarter? Yes you're essentially correct.
The repatriation is in fact out of the SMR number.
The investment losses for the quarter are in there.
But again we had strong operating earnings and there wasn't that much change in the yen it was 1% and 1.5% something like that.
So there wasn't much of an impact on converting the dollar portfolio to yen compared to what it was at the end of the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then I guess 2 kind of related follow-ups.
So one the FSA standard reserving rate is that -- is there any update on that and would that materially impact the SMR? And then with this level of SMR would it be fair to say this is an adequate level that would enable kind of the larger repatriation looking to 2013? Let me think about the first part of that question again.
Let's see what was the first part? Research Division</strong> Just the standard reserving rate is there any update on that from the FAB? The JGB yields -- within your JGB yields still remain well below what would be required to change the notion that the standard interest rate will be lowered effective April 1 2013.
I think it has to go up to something like 1.2% or more for the remaining period between now and the determination date.
So it's highly likely that the standard reserve rate will come down.
That only affects us going forward for new business so there's no immediate impact on the SMR of a change in the -- of the rate.
And as far as -- we've got a pretty strong SMR future repatriations will primarily be a function of our Japan net after-tax income that reflects both operating earnings and investment losses after tax.
And historically we've repatriated about 80% of that number and we have to look at the level of solvency margin ratio to make sure we're taking care of the policyholders in Japan before we repatriate funds.
But historically we've been able to repatriate about 80% of the after-tax net income and still build our capital level in Japan.
So that's what I expect next year.
And our next question will come from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> I had a -- just a follow-up on profit repatriation.
Given that the losses in the second quarter were relatively high at least higher than they were in the first quarter what do you -- what's your sort of range for profit repatriation from Japan that you expect for 2013 assuming that you don't have material losses from here on out? And then on U.S.
sales they've been weak for the past few quarters.
Just wondering how much of this is because of the economy versus not having the capacity or the infrastructure to be able to train recruits? Jimmy this is Ken.
Let me address the proper repatriation question.
The current estimate based on losses that we've incurred so far in Japan's fiscal year would put it likely around JPY 65 billion next year which is down from about JPY 90 billion that we had expected earlier.
Remember when we talked about the JPY 90 billion we assumed there were no additional losses.
So updating that number that's a little over $800 million to $810 million.
Research Division</strong> And that would assume nothing major for the next 3 quarters? Correct correct.
U.S.? Second part of the question? U.S.
sales.
I would say that when we put out the original range for 2012 the range of 3% to 8% was based upon some improvement in both the U.S.
economy and more specifically on employment itself.
The 3% range as I've said previously represented a poor economy.
The 8% of the range represented an improved economy with an average execution on our part.
I would tell you at this point I think you've seen nationally with GDP with unemployment across-the-board with the Fed considering taking action this morning that the economy has not improved.
And therefore we continue to see slightly weaker results.
That said as Dan mentioned in his speech earlier I believe that we will have a strong second half of the year with specific increase in the fourth quarter as the group business continues to drive success as well as the broker business.
Our broker sales continue to be strong.
And I feel like the changes that we've made recently in our sales and marketing structure to realign ourselves to better improve our training and to make our recruits more effective by recruiting and turning them into average weekly producers will set us up better for internal execution.
All that being said I feel confident and reaffirm the range of 3% to 8% with hope that we will continue to move up within that range from where we are today.
Our next question will come from John Nigel (sic) [Nadel] of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on the new asset allocation strategy.
Is this something where we should expect you will only be investing new cash flows? For instance into these -- into U.S.
public corporate securities and swapping or hedging into yen.
Or might you be willing to sell some of your more recent JGB investments and reinvest proceeds from that as well into the strategy? It's Eric again.
First for sure the majority of new cash flows will be used to invest per our new asset allocation strategies that are still being finalized but you've heard a lot about with the GSAM project.
Having said that we will certainly look at opportunities for current assets in our portfolio to swap them in essence where it makes sense to do so.
Having said that that's not a conclusion we can make today.
We're still finalizing the asset allocation results.
Secondly we always have to consider liquidity needs in our portfolio other types of market events.
But to the extent we have assets and JGBs are certainly one example if they're in AFS where that possibility exists and we would certainly look at that.
As you know the majority of our non-JGB assets are primarily in private placements.
So those opportunities are limited just because of the liquidity constraints on those type of assets.
So we'll explore those opportunities and report -- if we see good investment opportunities to make that type of swap we would certainly entertain doing those.
But nothing is planned for it at this early stage of the new asset allocation strategy.
John this is Ken.
Just as a reminder we came into the year thinking that we've have about JPY 800 billion of investable cash for the year.
It's now at about JPY 1.3 trillion primarily because of the much better sales that we've had coupled with very strong persistencies.
So the big -- there may be swap opportunities but the big challenge remains to putting that significant cash flow to work.
We're talking about JPY 15 billion in new money this year.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand.
I was thinking about it from the perspective of your JGB investments given the direction of rates are probably capital gains that might be helpful for your capture of some of the NOLs.
That's on our mind too.
That's on our mind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then the second question I have is another one maybe for Eric and it's just recognizing how much conditions in Europe have deteriorated here in at least the recent several weeks if not little a bit longer thinking about for instance Spanish sovereign debt as one example.
I'm just wondering what your watch list looks like.
How that's perhaps changed over the past few months.
Yes actually in terms of our watch list it hasn't necessarily increased in total because our watch least has a number of parameters that factor in price movement ratings agency actions and a few other variables.
So things like Spain and sovereign debt were on our radar screen.
However within the watch list of course we have different grades of sort of how much we're concerned about it or not.
So that part has changed within the watch list.
And as I have said earlier in the year certainly at our FAB there's no doubt you all understand what our European exposures are so we will be impacted by the volatility in Europe and actions by the rating agencies.
And as I've said I certainly expect it on  our holdings ratings migration.
I think that was fairly well forecasted by the agencies and therefore would impact our holdings.
But with respect to the volatility in the first quarter as we know Europe calmed down; second quarter extremely high volatility similar to what we've seen last year.
And I said if that volatility was high then the financial impact to our holdings would be greater.
If that volatility stayed lower then the financial impact would be lower while we had some ratings migration.
And the second quarter is just unfortunately an example of that volatility going very high and having some impact to our holdings particularly in Spain with the 2 bonds we decided to impair.
Our next question will come from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I just want to go back to the sales guidance or sales objective for Japan for a minute because you said that you expect 0% to 5% growth in the second half in Japan.
You're expecting the sale of this 5-pay WAYS to go away basically.
I know that they've reached the cap in the banks.
With sales excluding WAYS in the second quarter relatively flat what are you doing to offset what you're going to see in terms of that huge decline in the sale of WAYS? Well I think first of all I think this low interest rate environment is going to drive people to look at the 10-pay or 15 or even 20-pay WAYS that we have.
So I think there'll be some shift from the 5 to the 10 and 15.
I think even the discounted advance premium cut in half from 1% to 0.5% is great for us but it's still the best buy out there for consumers that are spending money.
So I think although it will slow down some I still think you're going to see that it's still the best -- one of the best buys out there in the market.
And then finally I think the introduction of the new Gentle EVER is going to impact sales and so all of those things together I think will make us fall in that 0% to 5%.
And you'll remember that fourth quarter is a monster of a quarter.
So I think third quarter will be up slightly but fourth quarter's the one we're going against the really big numbers.
Research Division</strong> And Dan what is it about the cancer product right now that's causing sales to be weak? Is it that you need a refresher for that product? Is it the tax benefit that went away? Do you have anything planned in terms of new introductions on cancer? Yes we have plans to reengage the field force and our marketing guys are working on that.
We believe that we'll engage them in the medic -- they take path of least resistance.
So whatever the new product is they move to.
So right now we just expect them to move to Gentle EVER.
It's not they won't be interested in cancer.
It's just that Gentle EVER is the path of least resistance so they'll start selling that.
But we will look at more advertising to encourage the sale of the cancer products.
We'll look at more advertising in regard to the medical sales as well.
Contest we basically give now no -- we cut the commissions in half on the sales of our endowment and so they'll shift from that because there's no convention credit or any credit whatsoever and it's half the commissions.
So that'll move them back to the other products.
So it's just several things that tie together that I think will push it that way.
Our next question will come from Mark Finkelstein of Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Just one clarification please I think for Eric.
Should we be assuming that the majority of cash in the back half of the year will be invested in this new strategy? I mean I know you're still finalizing the allocation but how should we think about this 2.5% to 3.25% yield? Yes I would think of it as a gradual walk that'll become a power walk that'll become even stronger.
So we've just initiated the program.
Our intent is as market conditions allow and investment teams find good opportunities to increase that allocation to the investment grade corporate space.
So over the third quarter at least my current expectation is approximately 2/3 of our new money that comes in up to that could go into this investment program.
But it will be dependent on market conditions and investment opportunities that we see.
As we gain more confidence in the workings of this program and assuming market conditions remain favorable towards the end of the third quarter we'll reexamine the fourth quarter and decide on the asset allocation there.
So if things go well I would expect this program to continue to gain momentum and be a more significant portion of our new money cash flows.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
At the May Investor Day you talked a little bit about strategies and structures to maybe accelerate monetization of the deferred tax asset.
Is there any there any update on that? Yes Mark this is Ken.
There are actually a -- there's a couple of strategies that we're pursuing.
I still can't get into a lot of details but we remain pretty optimistic that we'll be able to generate some gains and hopefully address the combination of taking care of some current period losses and also the carryforwards in future periods.
But it involves a lot of market work legal work.
There's -- we want to make sure we -- that the regulators are aware of it for instance.
So we're continuing to work at it and it's a pretty high priority here but I just can't give a lot of detail at this time.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it could be a 2012 event? Yes yes.
Remember though that when you generate gains those gains first go to current -- to offset current period losses.
And with the LME exercise that we had largely completed the program in the first part of the year we had generated significant losses about $0.5 billion.
So the first $0.5 billion of gains will go towards offsetting that.
So we've got to think a little bit strategically about when we would pull the trigger to take care of some of the losses this year while also keeping some of the powder dry to try and address some of the carryforwards over the next few years.
And our next question will come from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> My first question I guess is a bigger question for Dan.
As you think about the Japan business and the mix of new products coming on the books as you look beyond this year and even next year just kind of looking further out do you ever think we'll get back to a period of time where the third-sector products are a larger or the dominant contributor in terms of mix or the contributions to growth or has the market changed so much where kind of going forward you're still going to be focusing on the these investment-oriented types of products? No I think there'll be a shift back more toward third sector.
I still believe there's the potential for the co-pays and deductibles to go up again.
I mean we're at 30%.
I've seen it go from 0% to 10% to 20% to 30%.
I still believe there's the potential for it to go to 50%.
If there is there'll be more demand for our products than ever before.
That isn't to say that it'll happen but I never thought it would get to 30%.
One of the things that's driving the market right now and the sale of the life products is low interest rate environment.
If interest rates move up that's positive for us in many ways.
I think that if the interest rates move up we won't see as much life insurance sold through WAYS so that'll move down.
So I think it's a balance.
But I think it's been a surprise how much life insurance we've written and I'm excited to see the profit margin the opportunity for expansion in that.
But I don't see that as our main thrust going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up question is again on the Japan business and the banks.
Obviously you're preparing for the potential for disintermediation if rates spike.
But I guess my question is even if rates don't spike and we get 5 years out and the surrender charges go away I mean why wouldn't the banks just churn the product anyway to get another commission? And I guess the example I'm thinking about is like the U.S.
variable annuity business where once the surrender charges are up the advisor sort of churn the product through 1035s or whatever get a new commission and obviously that has an impact adverse impact on the underlying company that's offering the product.
Why wouldn't the banks do that? This is Kriss.
I'm going to just speculate that the FSA does watch agent behavior in Japan.
And if the agents did something not in the interest of policyholders then there are potential problems associated with that.
There was a lot of agent training that went to preparing the banks to sell the WAYS products.
And keep in mind that even though surrender charges go away there are still significant benefits in the optionality associated with the WAYS product at the maturity age.
So I think that we would argue with the banks that they would be doing a disservice to their policyholders to rewrite things almost even in the event of change in interest rates.
And Toru do you  have any comments you'd like to make on that? You were a banker before you were an insurance man how about you? I think that Kriss is absolutely right.
In the eyes of the Japanese regulator the thought of the action is probably will look like something very inappropriate from the viewpoint of the consumer's interest.
Banks are very very ultrasensitive to their reputation.
So I don't think that any bank would like to do that just simply because they wish to increase the commissions.
The reputation is more important for them.
Just a small -- it's a relatively small portion of that profit for the banks anyway.
So I don't think that that's going to happen in Japan.
And remember we've only been selling it a year and we'll be out of it.
And our last question will come from Ed Spehar of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> The question I have is on the WAYS profit margin.
Kriss I think the examples you gave that FAB with the 2.5% new money was based on the current product is that correct? So it wasn't taking into account lower assumed interest rate or a change in the discount advance premium? You are absolutely correct Ed.
It was a current product priced at 1.65% interest.
If the standard interest rate goes down to 1% which we expect it will we will reprice at a lower yield and achieve a greater spread which would improve the profitability of the revised product.
The competitors would have to do similar pricing action.
So we wouldn't be at a disadvantage competitively.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is what's the risk that you're overshooting now? If the new money yields are going to be 2.5% at the low end and you're making 2 pricing changes it would seem like the margin you're going to be getting as you look out into next year on this product could be 30%.
I mean that's -- I think the margin was pretty close to the internal rate of return on the product at least that's how you described I believe in the past.
I mean is the 30% internal rate of return really a -- I mean are you going to the point where the sales are going to go away? Well let me just make a comment about that.
I think the real question becomes how competitors will view this.
If we move with a herd mentality as we always have and I'm really not talking about the discounted advance premium; that's kind of a no-brainer and won't be any trouble.
It would be the rate decrease -- I mean the interest rate decrease or the rate increase in April.
We would view it at that time according to what was going on.
And we would move with everybody else.
So -- but I think the trend that you're seeing is a very strong trend in the right direction of what we want to see.
And the way things have moved in today's world I think we've just got to wait a little closer and watch it but I think that there is that upside for that happening.
Let me just add that this life insurance stuff is a long-term business.
It's not just a quarter-to-quarter business and you need to have a bit of a long-term perspective on it.
We've suffered low margins here recently over the last year 1.5 years.
And I think we would like to have opportunity to restore some of those margins and to help fund some of the realized losses we've taken due to the weak investment environment.
So a concern about making too much money is not at the top of my list right now Ed.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm not worried about making too much money.
I'm just worried about the idea that the WAYS which is a big contributor to sales go to 0.
Well don't worry.
We're not going to let that happen.
I'm worried about that.
I meet on that all the time.
There's a balance in everything we do.
Just like everybody is panicked when they saw interest rates heading down and worried about WAYS becoming unprofitable.
I said calm down we'll have it fixed.
And we have and got the thing -- we can't let it get too high either.
You're absolutely right.
Everything is about moderation nothing in excess.
And that's the way we look at this.
All right.
Finally I would like to remind everybody that we're going to be holding our Tokyo Analyst Meeting on Monday September 10.
And hopefully we'll able to update you on many of the things that we discussed today.
So please make sure that you call us or register online if you would like to attend.
Also I want to thank you for joining us today.
And if you'd like to follow up on any of the items please feel free to call Tom or myself and we'll be glad to follow up with anything.
Thank you again and we hope to see you in Tokyo on September 10.
Thank you for participating in the conference today.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Aflac Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President Chief Global and Investment Officer; and Toru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan is joining us today from Tokyo.
Before we begin let me remind you that some statements in the teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of the federal securities law.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discussed today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that can materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn to program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter in our operations in Japan and the United States.
I will then follow up with a few financial highlights for the quarter in the first 9 months and then we will be glad to take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
And good morning everyone.
Let me begin with a review of AFLAC Japan our largest earnings contributor.
We were again pleased with AFLAC Japan's strong financial performance and phenomenal sales momentum that continued into the third quarter.
Following 2 years of tremendous sales growth new annualized premiums sales rose 31.7% to JPY 55.7 billion in the third quarter.
These results significantly surpassed our expectations again and marked the fifth straight quarter of record sales production.
For the first 9 months of the year AFLAC Japan's total annualized premium sales in yen rose 43.4%.
Record sales growth combined with continued strong persistency contributed to AFLAC Japan's double-digit increase in premium income for the third quarter.
Premium income increased 10.7% to JPY 346 billion.
Revenue growth was also strong in the quarter rising 10% to JPY 404 billion.
Pretax earnings were JPY 78 billion down 1.4%; and for the 9 months pretax earnings were JPY 238 billion up 1.4%.
The bank channel generated JPY 26.9 billion in sales which represented an increase of 85.3% over the third quarter of 2011.
The bank channel accounted for 48.6% of AFLAC Japan's total new sales in the quarter.
From a product perspective WAYS our unique hybrid whole-life product continued as our top seller in the third quarter generating an increase of 108% over 2011 and accounted for 50% of the total third quarter sales.
Our sales management team has done an excellent job ensuring the transition from 5-pay WAYS to 10-pay WAYS has gone smoothly through all distribution channels.
Additionally sales of 10-pay WAYS in the quarter was much stronger than we originally anticipated.
Sales for the medical category was also strong rising 11.7% in the third quarter and benefiting from July's introduction of the revised nonstandard medical product.
Given the current low interest rate environment we continue to employ strategies to enhance the profitability of our child endowments and WAYS products.
In the third quarter all distribution channels stopped selling 5-pay WAYS.
Beginning this week we lowered the interest rate credit from  0.5% -- from 1% to 0.5% for discounted advance premium or DAP.
This credit essentially increases the total premium paid.
The profitability of WAYS and child endowment will be enhanced in April of 2013 when we lower the assumed interest rate for new product pricing.
Considering AFLAC Japan's very strong sales results for the 9 months we think sales could be challenged for the remainder of the year.
We anticipate the additional sales growth hurdles in the fourth quarter will come from consumers' response to the lower credit given for the DAP.
And as a result we expect sales to be in the range of flat to up 15% for the quarter.
Taking all that into account we now expect 2012 Aflac Japan sales to rise 30% to 35% year-over-year.
But let me say that even before the fourth quarter began my mind had already shifted to 2013 and the challenges we faced following 5 straight quarters of record-breaking sales results.
I want to point out that the bank channel represents a larger portion of our business so projecting future sales results becomes more challenging.
Also we won't gain insight into 2013 bank sales strategies until closer to the start of AFLAC -- of Japan's fiscal year which starts April 1.
Although marketing plans for Aflac Japan are being finalized for 2013 we already see some challenges on the horizon.
We know that Aflac's brand is strong throughout Japan and this enhances the appeal for our products.
For the last 2 years as all of you know our sales has been spectacular due to the WAYS and child endowment products particularly through banks.
During that time investment yields have been lower thus putting pressure on the profitability of these products.
As I've said earlier we started implementing adjustments to improve profitability including the reduction in DAP that went into effect early this week.
More importantly in 2013 with the rate increase going into effect on new policies due to lower assumed interest rates I think you're likely to see sales slow down but generate higher profitability which would create higher profit margins for Aflac Japan going forward.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operations.
From a financial perspective Aflac U.S.
continued to perform very well this year.
Although new sales growth has been constrained our top line growth has been consistently strong through the year and large part reflecting an improved persistency with each quarter.
We believe there are a couple of reasons for this improvement.
First with the economic uncertainty over the last several years workers have been reluctant to switch jobs and people are more likely to keep the benefits they currently have.
Secondly we've enhanced communication with the policyholders at important touch points and we know this has resulted in better policy retention.
I also think we've done a good job in managing the U.S.
operation including budgets and people resources.
Our benefit and expense ratios are lower than a year ago resulting in stronger pretax operating earnings.
Aflac U.S.
revenues grew 5.2% for the quarter and 5.2% for the first 9 months.
Pretax earnings were up 21.5% for the quarter and 11.5% for the first 9 months.
Premium income increased 5.2% for the quarter and 5.3% for the first 9 months.
Aflac U.S.
annualized premium sales declined 1.5% for the quarter; however for the 9 months of the year sales growth was positive with total new annualized premium sales rising 1.5%.
We continue to see the economic landscape in the U.S.
as challenging especially for small business segment where more than 90% of our products are sold.
Although the most recent government data shows that unemployment rates improved slightly small business continue to hold back on hiring.
The National Federation of Independent Businesses which focuses on small business owners reported this month that fewer jobs were created in September than in the 2 previous months.
Additionally the percentage of small business owners who plan to create new jobs in the future is historically at weak level.
We have continued to make structural changes to our marketing and sales area to maximize our future growth.
While these changes have been more disruptive in the short term than we originally anticipated we believe this will enhance our long-term results.
With the election less than 2 weeks away many business owners are reluctant to make changes in their benefit programs until there is greater clarity in the U.S.
economy outlook.
With the uncertainty in 9 months of results I think it's likely that Aflac sales for 2012 will be roughly flat.
Having updated you on our operations let me give you some details related to our Global Investment division.
For the last several years our primary focus has been on investment risk management while investing our significant cash flows in assets of relatively higher quality and liquidity.
As you know we made considerable progress in proactively derisking our portfolio over the last 4 years to enhance the strength of our balance sheet.
In the process we've significantly reduced our exposure to perpetual securities peripheral European sovereign debt and financials especially in Europe.
In fact we reduced our exposure in these categories by $1.4 billion during the quarter and $3.8 billion year-to-date which further improved the overall quality of the portfolio.
Impairments were relatively small in the quarter; however the European market still represents an area of potential risk and we remain cautious.
But I am convinced we are much better positioned to accommodate that volatility as a result of the derisking efforts.
As we have stated for many years our greatest investment challenge has been to invest Aflac's significant cash flows at reasonable investment yields.
Our recently employed U.S.
corporate bond program has been effective means of enhancing our new money yields in Japan.
You'll recall that our initial objective was to invest JPY 200 billion or about $2.5 billion in U.S.
dollar denominated publicly-traded corporate bonds and unhedged currency risk.
We completed that pilot program in the third quarter and are very pleased with the results it generated.
In the third quarter the new money yield on the corporate bond program was 3.6%.
Aflac Japan's total new money yield for the quarter was 2.76%.
These yields do not reflect hedging cost for the program which was 41 basis points.
Based on the success of this program and market conditions we plan to invest 2/3 of Aflac Japan's fourth quarter cash flow.
This successful investment program allows Aflac Japan to surpass our budget in new money yield for 2012 of 2.05%.
It also enhances the profitability of our more interest-sensitive products and benefits next year's investment income growth.
Finally I'm pleased with the continued progress in the transformation of our Global Investment division.
We continue to grow our investment team build new infrastructure support develop new investment strategies with the elements of our recently completed strategic asset allocation projects.
We believe these efforts will improve the risk return profile for our balance sheet and further our objective as a world-class investment operation.
Now I'll turn to Aflac's consolidated financial performance.
Operating earnings per diluted share were better than expected rising 7.3% to $1.77 for the quarter.
There was no impact from foreign currency in the third quarter.
It's important to note that even without a lower effective tax rate operating earnings per share would have been right in line with our objective and guidance.
For the 9 months operating earnings per diluted share rose 5% before the effect of the yen.
Net earnings in the third quarter of 2012 included after-tax realized investment gains of $186 million or $0.39 per diluted share compared with after-tax losses of $34 million or $0.08 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
I am pleased the investment strategies we've implemented have improved the quality of investment portfolio and benefited the bottom line.
I'm also pleased that our capital ratios remain strong which demonstrates our commitment to maintaining financial strength and flexibility.
Although we've not yet finalized our statutory financial statements we estimate that the RBC ratio was between 575 and 600 at the end of September.
We expect Aflac Japan's solvency margin ratio remain at the high-end or above our 500 to 600 target.
Given the strength of our capital ratios and our parent company's liquidity we believe we can allocate up to $100 million toward the purchase of our shares in the fourth quarter.
Purchasing shares later this quarter won't have much impact on 2012 earnings per share growth but it will benefit us in 2013.
I'll also stress that we've been prudent.
In any decision we make we'll certainly taking into account challenges within the macroeconomic environment especially as it relates to Europe.
As we have frequently discussed profit repatriation went into primary source for funding share repurchase.
You may remember from our second quarter call in the Tokyo Analyst Meeting that we expect profit repatriation to be around JPY 65 billion for 2013.
We still believe that's a reasonable estimate assuming that we have no additional investment losses that would reduce Aflac Japan's operating income.
Next year's profit repatriation could provide us with significant amount of capital that could be deployed with share repurchase.
I was very pleased that the Board of Directors approved the 6.1% increase in the quarterly cash dividend effective with the fourth quarter payment.
This marks the 30th consecutive year we've increased cash dividend to the shareholders.
We continue to believe that we are well-positioned to achieve our stated earnings objectives of 3% to 6% increase in operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of foreign currency.
In the second quarter we have guided toward the low end of the range.
However reflecting the lower annual effective tax rate we now expect operating earnings for 2012 to be better.
If the yen average is JPY 80 to the $1 for the last 3 months of the year we expect reported operating earnings for the fourth quarter to be in the range of $1.46 to $1.51 per diluted share.
Under the same exchange rate assumptions we expect the full year operating earnings to be $6.58 to $6.63 per diluted share which would be roughly a 4% to 5% increase on a currency-neutral basis.
We believe this is reasonable and achievable.
Importantly we continue to believe that 2013's operating earnings per share will increase 4% to 7% on a currency-neutral basis.
In addition to operating earnings growth we also focused on producing industry-leading return on equities.
On an operating basis the third quarter ROE was 25.2%.
For 2012 and 2013 we continue to believe it's reasonable to see operating ROE in the area of 22% to 26%.
We remain focused on our vision of being the leading provider of voluntary insurance in the United States and the #1 provider of supplemental insurance in Japan.
In both segments I am confident in our brand the fundamental needs of our products and more importantly the success of Aflac.
Overall I believe we had the best quarter since 2008.
Robin? Thank you Dan.
Now let me start with a few financial highlights.
First with Japan.
Beginning with the top line in yen terms revenues were up 10.0% for the quarter which is the first time we've had double-digit growth in revenues since 1997.
Investment income was up 3.7% and the persistency rate improved in the quarter.
The annualized rate including annuities for the first 9 months of 2011 was 94.8% compared with 94.4% a year ago.
In terms of operating ratios for the quarter the benefit ratio to total premiums increased over last year as a result of the impact of first sector products primarily the WAYS product.
It was 73.1% in the quarter compared to 70.0% a year ago.
The expense ratio for the quarter was 18.1% down from 18.8% in the third quarter of 2011 reflecting the lower commission cost associated with strong sales of first-sector products primarily WAYS.
Reflecting the higher benefit ratio the pretax profit margin decreased from 21.6% to 19.3% in the quarter.
Pretax earnings decreased 1.4% in yen terms for the quarter.
Now let me turn to Aflac U.S.
Total revenues rose 5.2% for the quarter.
The persistency rate continued to improve in the quarter.
Annualized rate for the 9 months was a record 76.9% up from 75.9% a year ago.
In looking at the operating ratios for the quarter the benefit ratio to total premiums decreased over the last year going from 56.8% in the quarter compared to 59.1% a year ago.
The lower benefit ratio for the quarter is largely the result of lower paid and incurred claims experienced during the quarter.
The operating expense ratio decreased slightly going from 31.5% a year ago to 31.2%.
Benefiting from lower benefits and expense ratios the profit margin expanded to 18.4% compared to 16.0% a year ago.
As a result pretax operating margins increased 21.5% for the quarter.
Now let me turn to investment activity for the quarter starting with Aflac Japan.
For the third quarter approximately $2.5 billion of new cash flow was invested in the corporate bond program for a gross yield of 3.6% and a hedge cost of 41 basis points.
The yield net of hedge cost was 3.19%.
For the quarter total new money cash flow invested in Japan was $5.2 billion.
The gross total new money yield for that cash flow was 2.76%.
The yield for the total new money net of hedging was 2.56%.
That gives you the hedging cost for the total portfolio of 20 basis points.
The weighted average duration of the forward contracts executed this quarter is 5 months and range from 3 to 6 months.
During the quarter approximately 55% of the corporate bond purchases have a maturity of 8 to 10 years and 45% have a maturity of 18 to 30 years.
Approximately 44% of new cash flow was invested in JGBs in the quarter for an average yield of 1.72%.
The portfolio yield at the end of the quarter was 2.8% down 26 basis points from the end of June and 58 basis points lower than a year ago.
According to Bloomberg 20-year JGBs during the quarter were 78 basis points a 6-basis points decrease from June.
Additionally to enhance our investment income this quarter we executed on a 6-month securities lending program involving approximately $6.5 billion of assets from the Japan portfolio.
All of these assets were JGBs.
Now let me turn to U.S.
investments.
The new money yields for the quarter was 3.94% a decline of 43 basis points from June 30 and 183 basis points from a year ago.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of September was 6.51% down 8 basis points from the second quarter and 21 basis points from a year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter.
Noninsurance interest expense in the third quarter was $45 million compared to $44 million a year ago.
Total company pretax operating margins decreased reflecting the increase of the benefit ratio in Japan caused by the increased sales of the ordinary line of business.
Parent company and other expenses increased only slightly from $14 million to $15 million in the third quarter.
Also in this quarter the company revised its estimate of the full year effective tax rate resulting in an increase of operating earnings of $17.5 million or $0.04 per diluted share.
The company also recognized a tax benefit of $29.5 million or $0.06 per share primarily from a favorable outcome of a routine tax exam for the years 2008 and '09.
The total impact of these items was $47 or $0.10 per diluted share.
Going forward we expect the effective tax rate for the remainder of the year and 2013 to be somewhere between the range of 34.0% to 34.5% assuming FSA earned premium is flat year-over-year.
The pretax margin went from 19.4% to 18.2% and on an operating basis the tax rate was 31.3% compared to 32.6% a year ago.
Net earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $2.16 compared to $1.57 in 2011.
Lastly let me comment on our earnings outlook for '12.
As you heard we raised our outlook for '12 to increase operating earnings per diluted share.
If operating earnings per share increased between 3% and 6% in the fourth quarter and the yen average is 80% for the remainder of the year we would expect operating EPS to be between $1.46 and $1.51.
That compares with current first-call estimates of $1.53.
This estimate reflects our plans to substantially increase IT expenses and expenditures related to marketing and advertising in the fourth quarter.
Additionally if you back out the $0.10 operating earnings benefited from the tax items during the quarter reported operating earnings per diluted share were at $1.67 which would be right in line with our guidance as Dan said.
Using the same foreign currency as such and we would expect full year operating earnings to be somewhere in the range of $6.58 to $6.63 per diluted share.
Now we're going to be glad to take your questions.
To be fair to everybody please limit yourself to one question and only one follow-up that relates to your initial question.
We're ready to begin please.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Nigel Dally of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> My question is on capital.
With the JPY 65 billion repatriation estimate are you expecting to retain any of that capital in your U.S.
sub or should all of that make its way to the parent? Also you discussed an initiative to monetize some of the deferred tax assets in the U.S.
that you may have invested out [ph] can we also get an update as to where you stand on that initiative? Nigel this is Ken.
Right now as we've mentioned the JPY 65 billion we still believe is a reasonable estimate for next year's profit repatriation.
We currently anticipate returning to our normal dividend policy for Aflac U.S.
up to the parent company to support the quarterly cash dividend payment and other parent company obligations.
In terms of funding the share repurchase activities that we've anticipate for 2013 I think the combination of and our ability to further dividend upstream plus the liquidity that we have on hand would enable us to do that.
We were sitting at approximately $950 million of cash at the parent company level at the end of September after dividend payments and $100 million of repatriations in the fourth quarter -- or excuse me repurchase in the fourth quarter will probably around $785 million of cash at the end of the year.
As far as the DTAs  go we have generated gains this year.
Unfortunately the gains that we've generated have gone against the taxable losses that we've incurred as part of the derisking activities and selling assets at a loss.
We're still looking at actually a couple strategies that we think will help address the DTA issue going forward but we still have a little more work to do on those.
Our next question is from Jeff Schuman of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could update us on the current marginal profitability of WAYS because you changed the rate on DAP.
You've implemented the new money strategy.
You discontinued 5-pay WAYS.
There's several things going under that should enhance the marginal profitability but I was wondering if you could give us a read there please.
It definitely has.
I'm going to get Kriss to cover that.
Okay.
Jeff I'd kind of lead you back to what we reviewed at the Analyst Meeting in September in Tokyo the information we laid out on the presentation at that time showed what the impact on profitability would be on the current core products with current core pricing -- current core product pricing if we were able to achieve an increase in say interest assumption on investment assets from say 2% to -- 2% to 2.25% or 2.5%.
And those charts showed that at 2% interest new money we'd have a profit margin on WAYS that range from 8 to 12.
If we achieved an increase to 2.25% then I think we'd expect that margin to go up to 13 to 17.
And if we could get 2.5% we'd go up to 17 to 21 expected profit as a percent of premium over the life of the contract.
So with the new investment program we've had some real positive impact on our ability to enhance new money yields.
That being said for the short term some of that increase in new money yields is going to be offset.
And I mentioned this in Tokyo again to try moderate the excitement a little bit some of that increase in new money yields is going to fund the increase in investment expenses for personnel and infrastructure et cetera associated with the new investment team and that'll dampen things for say 6 months to a year a bit.
But it is a long-term improvement in profitability and that will be important.
Now we did October 22 decrease the credit and interest rate on the discounted advance premium from 1% to 0.5%.
That basically gives us an extra 50 basis points on the funds held under that program.
And the funds held under that program basically represent half the total premium ever collected on the contract because we collect total premiums due during the contract on day 1.
And just for example on the 10-pay WAYS we'd collect first full 10 premiums.
We would apply the first premium to the policy the day we collected it.
So on balance we'd have 9 premiums on deposit for the next 9 years; on average we'd have 4.5 premiums on deposit and an extra 50 basis points which gives us roughly an extra 2.25% of premium profit over the life of that particular contract.
So things are headed in the right direction is all I can tell you.
And then in April we'll have the -- You'll have the potential repricing when the standard interest rates decline to 1% and we'll definitely have repricing activity.
At that time we'll try to watch what competition is doing.
We don't want to give ourselves a competitive disadvantage in the market.
But I believe that clearly the premium rate changes associated with the decline and the assumed valuation interest rate in Japan for reserves will tend to increase premium rates and that will take effect on April 1 2013.
And I want to make one comment about our sales force.
I am so impressed with Aflac Japan's sales force to -- especially the bank channel to adapt to these things.
To say "Nu-uh we're not going to take profit margins at these ranges.
We want higher profit margins.
And we're stopping 5-pay WAYS.
We're doing discount advance premiums.
" And of course the sidebar is what a great job our investment team has come up with the higher interest rates.
And then also in April we're going to see these things.
It has been a wonderful job on Toru's part and that management team for what they've done to adapt.
Because this is a change.
We never used to have to do it like this and now  we're going to vary to make sure we make our profits and do the things we need to do.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's all helpful and obviously the new money re-piece [ph] is kind of a moving target dynamically.
But kind of all in at this point it sounds like maybe current margins are more kind of mid-teens up from more like 10% earlier is that just kind of a fair return [ph]? They are [indiscernible].
They are there before the investment expenses they're there now.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMC.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Japan new money yield.
Obviously it picked up a decent amount.
I think it was around 1.97 last quarter 2.76 in Japan this quarter.
Assuming a stable environment from here what's your expectation for the new money yield? Obviously you're still shifting your investment allocation and that should help but credit spreads have come in as well over the past few months.
So just like either more specific or just directionally do you expect it to improve from here or decline a little bit? If the...
This is Eric.
If the market stays stable in terms of current interest rates in the U.S.
and Japan spread levels around where they are on an absolute basis we would expect our yields to go up.
Because as we disclosed our plans right now subject to market conditions are to invest about 2/3 of fourth quarter cash flow in a similarly-structured corporate bond program hedged back to yen.
So because the proportion of our new money would go to that program based on current market conditions the yield would go up versus last quarter whose of course yields had gone up from the prior quarter because we're investing 1/3 in that corporate program.
So by and large we would expect it to go up.
Current forecast would be about and this after a hedging cost of around 2 60  or so.
But again market rates can change spreads change.
So that's just a rough estimate based on what we know today.
Our next question is from Mark Finkelstein of Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I want to talk about just the core kind of Cancer and medical sales in Japan.
Sales were down about 3% to 4% year-over-year flattish sequentially.
You did have the product introduction of Gentle EVER which usually does provide some form of a sales surge.
And I guess I'm just curious about what is the outlook for sales in those products? And can you give some background or color on the competitive landscape? Toru do you want to take that? Do you want me to? How do you want to do this? Yes I'll take that.
Yes you're right.
The sales of the Cancer and the medical combined is -- has declined during the third quarter a little bit.
But this is better than the second quarter you may have noticed.
The second quarter it was down by 8.7%.
Now the third quarter was down by 3.6%.
This increase is because of the good -- very good sales of the new Gentle EVER which we introduced this quarter.
So with that very strong sales of this new product and also that we are planning to introduce some promotion majors in the coming fourth quarter to enhance the sales of the both Cancer and medical.
So we are rather hopeful that we would see the better sales of these 2 products combined in the fourth quarter.
And Gentle EVER accounted for 30% of EVER sales in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess my follow-up would be you're expecting sales to be flat to 15% in Japan.
Is there any color you can give specifically on kind of the Cancer medical component? And whether you expect that to be up flattish -- what's the outlook? Toru? Yes.
I think I cannot give you the specific numbers as to the -- our expected sales of the Cancer and the medical combined.
But we are trying to move that sales up to the flat or hopefully positive into the fourth quarter but it depends on how successful our promotion will be.
Yes.
I want to remind you that one thing that gives you a harder picture to follow is just remembering that WAYS is 9x more than the price of the medical product -- than the medical products and even endowment is 3x more.
So the number of policy sales look better.
And remember that our Cancer product is 20% cheaper than it was because the changes we had in it.
So actual policy sales look a little better than the premium sales numbers do.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just had a question I guess for Eric on the new investment strategy.
I think the way that you described it in Tokyo was -- I'll simplify to a bit of a trade-off between greater liquidity versus a higher rollover risk in terms of the hedges.
So I guess I'm just curious given that you're investing so far 10 years plus are you worried about this rollover risk on these currency forwards that are much shorter in duration? The way I would phrase it is it's a matter of risk management and a matter of having a macro view of the economy short-term interest rates.
So it is something that we have to look at very carefully and there are variety of different hedging strategies we can employ over time.
So today am I worried? No.
I don't think -- I think there is very little risk from a macro perspective that U.S.
interest rates go up any time or that Japan short-term interest rates change.
Over the long term those dynamics will change and we will adjust our hedging strategies appropriately.
And as you recollect in Japan we talked about over time using forwards cross-currency swaps.
We could use longer rolling forwards.
I'd also keep in mind that when we employ these strategies we stress test them against our capital ratios and take a number of factors into account.
I'd also say over time we may not always buy in corporate hedge we may buy other asset classes that are yen-denominated et cetera.
So it is absolutely something that's important but it's another risk factor amongst many and you'll see our program continue to develop and become more sophisticated as the amount of assets we deploy and it continued to grow.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess my follow-up is just in terms of the accounting for this I think you're taking the mark-to-market of the hedge through net income so presumably we might see some more volatility in realized investment gains and losses.
So I just want to make sure that that is an accurate statement.
And then I guess related how does this impact your statutory results in terms of cash flow testing? Again you're getting this cash it's in dollars and you have -- you're hedging the yen.
But when you do your cash flow testing how are you sort of factoring in potential changes and cost of hedges and those sorts of things? I'll start out with it.
The accounting that we will be utilizing consistent with GAAP will take the change in the fair value of the hedges through net realized gains and losses.
And the cost of the hedging will be reflected in that line item of the financial statement.
That being said that will be the accounting presentation.
The economic evaluation of the profitability of the business in my mind will have to be  a net of the anticipated cost and the actual cost of the hedging.
So I don't want you to get confused to say "Well these guys aren't looking at the economics or looking at the accounting.
" Because I'm not going to worry about geography when I'm evaluating economic profitability and I'll just say that.
Now we'll have to reflect the potential implication of the hedging activities and our cash flow analysis that we use for both the actuarial evaluation of reserve adequacy on both U.S.
statutory and on an FSA reporting basis.
And that will involve using the same type of stochastic processes that we currently use in evaluating cash flows cash flow adequacy and the like.
So all that will be baked into the normal cash flow testing process we go through effective this year end.
Suneet I'd add just a couple of things.
This is Ken.
First I think one of the ways you can think about this in the way that we're hedging using forwards as opposed to cross-currency swaps is that the system looks similar to the reversible currency securities you'll recall that we had purchased for many years meaning that we're not hedging the coupon.
We're collecting the coupons in dollars and we'll have the flexibility to either reinvest in dollars or convert those coupons to yen and reinvest in yen.
What we're really hedging is the balance sheet risk.
So that the securities the book value of those securities their marked value don't fluctuate with currency changes.
They'll fluctuate with credit changes interest rate changes but we're protecting it from currency changes.
And the reason we're doing that is really because of the solvency margin ratio in Japan.
And interestingly enough the treatment of these securities on an FSA basis is actually favorable compared with buying straight yen-denominated privately-issued securities that we used to buy.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
I get the focus on the economics.
But just based on what Kriss was saying about the cost of the hedges being below the line I mean aren't you effectively overstating your operating earnings if you're getting the benefit of the strategy through net investment income but you're carrying the cost of the hedge below the line? Well again we're not hedging the coupons.
We are hedging the balance sheet really not the coupons.
But again to your point and as we discussed when we think about value -- to the extent that these securities are going to support policy liabilities -- in particular WAYS -- we think economically.
And when we run our cash flow test internally we're going to consider the cost of the hedge.
Let me just say we recognize what the GAAP reporting requirements are but we are also recognizing the operating earnings as we define them are a non-GAAP financial measure.
And we may have some internal discussions about what the most appropriate presentation of hedging cost in relation to operating earnings is.
For the current year we've chosen not to change anything.
But we may have some internal discussions and we'll let you know what our conclusions are.
And Suneet as we talked last night we are looking -- with next quarter the amount was not very meaningful this quarter but breaking out those different derivatives by line item also seems to be  exactly what the number was.
Our next question comes from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I'm curious for a little bit more detail perhaps on the securities lending program that you've initiated.
I understand you guys mentioned this $6.5 billion program and you're lending entirely JGBs.
I was just wondering what you're buying with the cash collateral.
Any duration mismatch you might be taking since it's such a short-term program I think you mentioned 6 months and what tick up in yield that's providing? Yes.
The collateral is actually matched from a maturity standpoint.
So it's very short duration it's also back at JGBs.
It's a very small pickup.
My recollection is around maybe 10 basis points or so -- 30 or so? I'm sorry 30 or so on the whole program.
So this is an opportunity for us.
As you know we've got a lot of JGBs and a good portion of those sit in ultra [ph] maturity.
So when we have opportunities to enhance income by not really taking on much more risk that's just extra gravy if you will for us.
So this was a good opportunity and we're able utilize of those HTM JGBs in this fashion.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick follow-up I'm not sure if I followed.
What are you buying with the proceeds Eric? Basically short-term JGBs with the collateral.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And then just -- I don't want to belabor the point too much on the currency hedging.
Just a quick question as to how much capacity do you think is out there.
How big can your U.S.
corporates investing swapping into yen how big can that program get over time? Sure.
Well let me take that from 2 ways.
As you recollect -- and I went over this in Japan -- we did a strategic asset allocation program with Goldman Sachs.
And from an asset allocation perspective and this program looked over a 3-year rolling period.
So for the next 3 years we could see the U.S.
corporate program being -- and this includes growth of our -- assumes growth of our balance sheet -- being up to about 20% or 25% of total assets.
From the standpoint of capacity of the forwards markets that's really not an issue.
The currency forwards market is the most liquid largest market one of the largest markets in the world.
So there's more than adequate capacity.
Of course we also have to manage our counterparty risk.
And in that regard as you may recollect we've initiated this program with 3 Japan mega banks as counterparties but we're expanding our use of iz-biz [ph] so we can expand the list of counterparties as the program grows.
So if there would be any limit it would just be the credit quality of our counterparties.
But we don't see that as being a problem over the next 3 years as the program grows as long as we continue to grow all list of counterparties.
Research Division</strong> And then if I could just sneak one last one in and real quick.
Any interest in allocating investment dollars into high-yield or below investment grade securities? I noticed the impact the pickup in below-investment grade this quarter but it seems like that was all downgrade-driven.
Anything you can provide there? Sure.
A couple of things on that.
That's correct.
Anything that lead -- that shows up as an increase in date was because of downgrades.
Again tying back to the asset allocation strategy high-yield would be an asset class; that is part of our asset allocation strategy.
So that would be buying the true high-yield asset class as opposed to downgrades.
In the short-term we're not planning on allocating to that asset class.
As you recollect we're still building our team and capability.
We anticipate having that capability mid-year next year but then we'll still have to make the decision tactically.
We'll look at spreads in that market whether or not it's a good time to allocate money to high-yield.
So over time the answer is yes.
When exactly we would do it? That will be based on market conditions.
And one other thing just to mention for clarity going back to the hedging.
The cost right now of our hedging which as Dan mentioned it was 41 basis points.
That is a very very low cost which has primarily been driven by the low U.S.
interest rates and the low Japan interest rates.
We don't expect that cost to stay that low forever.
We know historically it's been higher so we're in the low point in cost but it also makes it attractive to use these types of forwards at the same time.
So over time these costs will increase from an investment perspective.
We're always going to look at all of our investment alternatives and we'll look at them net of hedging cost versus JGBs versus high-yield or other asset classes.
So it'll be a dynamic position over time based on market conditions but I think it's worth pointing out that those hedging costs most likely will increase versus decrease over time given that they're all at all time lows.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that in historical periods when those hedging costs are higher that new money yields are also higher? Not necessarily because the hedging cost per forwards is based on short-term rate differentials.
And we don't go out and buy short-term paper; we but longer-term paper 10 to 30 years.
So it really depends on the shape of the yield curve.
So we could be in an environment where short-term rates in the U.S.
go up; that would cause the cost of the hedges to go up but the long end of yield curve may not go up.
So there's not necessarily a correlation between those 2 things.
But I think it's reasonable to say that we've been looking at hedging cost being 1% versus 41%.
And if it doesn't make sense at 1% then we're not looking at it at all.
Our next question comes from Ryan Krueger of Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I was curious now that you've successfully completed the initial dollar-denominated program have you given any further consideration to extending this to some of your existing available for sale JGB holdings? Because it seems Eric that you're not all that concerned about the capacity for hedges.
And correct me if I'm wrong but if seems like if you were to do this it would create a number of desired outcomes which I think would include increasing returns on the existing portfolio as well as creating some gains in Japan that I would think would increase your profit repatriation potential.
So I was just curious if you had some update or thoughts on that? Sure.
Over time yes.
We would consider all of our assets that are available for sale and say is there a better opportunity for them whether it's JGBs or something else.
Of course we have to consider liquidity and duration and capital ratios when we do that.
Relative to gains we did as you already know manage during the quarter because when we're sitting on large gains in our FSA JGBs we did realize some of those gains as we tried to proactively manage our gains and losses.
Nevertheless we reinvested it to JGBs primarily because during the quarter we had put a cap in the third quarter on how much we were going to put into the corporate bond program.
So we were already targeted to be at that cap.
As we look at the fourth quarter we have a pretty good target for the amount of corporates and that's a healthy target and a healthy dose of higher yields for the program.
So we don't feel compelled right now that we need to make that swap.
But that's available to us depending on market conditions which we could do at some point in time and that'll be a relative value decision.
But right now we're pretty happy with the amount of money we're going to target in the fourth quarter so we don't see a need to target even more.
I don't know if Eric would totally agree with this but let me just throw it out.
And that is from my perspective we wouldn't allocate 75% of the cash flow of any quarter to this corporate bond program on a long-term basis.
And the way I look at it is we're repositioning a part of the current portfolio as part of that 75% and even though we're not liquidating it but let's just say new money-wise we're putting 30% in to the new program and another 45% we're converting to corporates as kind of in lieu doing gains and losses et cetera and putting it in there.
So as we just build the blocks in my mind I kind of look at it like we are repositioning a part of the current portfolio away from JGBs even though it's all new money.
Yes.
No I think that's an excellent point because as you all know prior to the initiation of this program if I could put in these terms we overallocated to JGBs because we didn't really have many alternatives based on our old investment strategy since we had stopped buying private placements almost entirely.
So in essence we overallocated to JGBs at the beginning of the year but now that we have the flexibility to do the corporate program there's just the higher percentage going in there as a way to fine tune the overall allocations.
To Kriss's point as well as we continue to build out our capabilities -- again go back to the Japan presentation -- I've put on the board different asset classes we will buy over time.
So you should expect to see and I think it will probably start to even out second part of next year certainly into 2014 where we'll be buying some JGBs some investment-grade corporates hedge some emerging markets high-yield including some alternatives on the Board.
So you'll see it even out over time but right now you're seeing those adjustments be disproportionate in essence because of the high amount to JGBs earlier this year.
Our next question is from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Something  completely different if Paul is still around.
U.S.
probably the guidance that Dan alluded to for the fourth quarter which was just flat.
Dan also referenced some disruption in distribution.
I'm assuming that Dan is talking about what you're trying to do in the large group market.
I was hoping maybe you could fill that out and tell us what's going on there? Sure.
As Dan mentioned and as I've mentioned my goal is to manage this business for the long-term not just for the short term.
So while 13 weeks of business is important I'm really trying to manage our growth for not only 2012 but '13 '14 and beyond.
So in this past summer the disruption that Dan is talking about is the combination of our sales and marketing strategy departments all into one bringing in external leadership to help run sales and then making sure our field force understands exactly what we're trying to do.
Less so about any disruption from the broker market and what specifically is happening in the broker market.
And in terms of sales we have seen as we've stepped in the fourth quarter enrollments specifically with our smaller accounts more of a decline in sentiment and purchasing than we originally expected.
When we came out in a recent release and even Kriss's comments at the mini FAB in Tokyo we commented that we thought we would be still within the range.
The reason decline has to do with what we expect sales to be based on what we're seeing come out of our small-business enrollments that Dan directly highlighted between small-business sentiment as well as what we believe is apprehension around the election taxes and a multitude of other items by small business owners.
As I've said all along we continue to build on our broker strategy to be a hedge against the small business any negative downturn in small business and our ability to write business in there.
While that market continues to grow and grow well for us we are seeing -- still seeing great success with our broker market and broker growth.
At this point the size of our field force in our core market which continues to be our key focus is so grossly proportionately larger than just any downturn in that small-business market -- especially in the fourth quarter -- will have a negative effect on our ability to produce sales increases.
So overall I'm very optimistic for the long-term.
We're putting in an incredible training program beginning in January.
I think we're doing all the right things from a management standpoint to make sure that long-term sales go well.
But in the short-term we are seeing the adverse effect of both the economy as well as apprehension in the small-business market.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if I may when we see fourth quarter results while we're going to see small -- your basic business down we will see large group up year-over-year? I'm not focusing it on group versus individual I'm focusing in on broker versus our core field [ph] [indiscernible] Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes [indiscernible].
Corporate versus [indiscernible].
And the reason I do that is I'm platform-agnostic.
Whether an account chooses group products or individual products makes no difference to me.
But what I am trying to do is manage our distinct distribution channels.
And one thing I do want to point out too is we've seen great success with our field force partnering with brokers actually help them enroll their accounts.
So I am very happy with our ability to succeed there and yes I do expect to see continued growth in the broker market.
I expect to see some struggles with our career market.
But as I said based on the training program and the things we're putting in place I expect us to be able to move forward in a positive manner throughout '13 and beyond.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you guys looking -- and this is -- I've heard some things.
Are you guys looking at the individual market performance and I'm talking about the true individual market you're selling to individuals as individuals.
There has been some thought that supplemental health products could really really shoot up in 2014 and beyond due to ObamaCare.
I'm wondering if that's something you might look at? Yes.
We've always had direct products.
In fact that's -- we've offered direct pricing in the United States for many years.
Our agents have always found that the ability to sell at the worksite not only provides us a better actuarial risk but it provide the ability for the agent to be more productive because they can sell to a larger volume of people in a shorter period of time.
And as well as I think Americans in general are used to purchasing their products at the worksite.
That said we do expect the combination of both ObamaCare PAC or whatever you want to call it as well as the millennial generation being 50% of the workforce by 2016 to have some impact on how people choose to purchase insurance.
Yes it's my job as well as our sales and marketing teams to make sure that we're staying ahead and looking at all possible alternatives.
But we still believe Steven that the best market for us is the worksite businesses with 100 employees or less.
And all of the other alternatives including the broker market as well as the direct market represent places for us to get incremental growth.
But again for us we are going to focus in on America's smallest businesses and the opportunity for us to be successful there.
We're at the top of the hour so we'll take one more question please.
Our final question comes from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Ken I just wanted to come back to you on something you had mentioned before I think in response to Nigel's question.
The -- so if the plan for -- going forward here is that dividends from the U.S.
is going to fund the common dividend is it safe to assume -- and you're still on track with $800 million or so in terms of U.S.
dollars repatriation coming from Japan -- is it fair to say all or the vast majority of that would go toward the buyback?  Is that the right way to think about that for '13? Well I think we -- a couple of things.
Number one we've said that we anticipate funding our share repurchase activities with profit repatriation so that JPY 65 billion translates into a little over $800 million.
We would expect to have more dividend capacity on a U.S.
statutory basis next year than we had this year just given where we are with realized investment losses on a statutory basis.
So as we think about next year again we want to maintain some prudence and we're going to be very cognizant of the world around us if additional losses emerge.
But assuming that we have a relatively benign environment thinking that we can buy somewhere within that -- we've indicated $300 million to $900 million in Kriss's speech in May -- we'd be at the high-end of the range if we felt comfortable deploying all of that.
But yes that would be available if we felt that was the right thing to do.
And again in the meantime we have ample liquidity at the parent company.
You'll recall that we did not dividend from the life company to the parent company all this year.
We really relied on parent company liquidity to meet our corporate needs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very clear.
And then just a follow-up for Kriss on the Japan margins.
So 17% to 20% -- 21% pretax margins on WAYS if you get it 2.5% new money yield.
And Kriss those are without the price increases either the October or the planned one for next year? Yes that's right.
They'd be in order of magnitude 8% to 10% higher under repricing.
Research Division</strong> So okay.
And then I know you had mentioned the 6 month -- or 6 to 12 months negative impact of the spend on the new investment structure.
But if I think about that range that you've given out and I look at the 19 3 margin that you had this quarter -- fair to say that if Eric keeps getting what he is getting that we're actually going to see start to see a reversal and margins go up here.
Or certainly not going down.
I just want to get some context.
And then as a follow-up the -- why is it only a 6 to 12-months spend? I thought most of the costs were going to be ongoing? Or is there some big onetime elements to those...
No the cost will be ongoing Tom.
What I'm saying is that if I look at the incremental yield on the amount we invested say for the first 6 months of the program.
Say I get an extra 100 basis points on $5 billion to $6 billion that's $50 million to $60 million.
That probably meets or exceeds the cost of the build out.
So the $50 million to $60 million of additional investment income on the investments we made over the last 3 months and the next 3 months are probably sufficient to fund the going forward the extra infrastructure personnel cost et cetera et cetera.
So in my mind the way I'm compartmentalizing it I'm saying "Well if I don't count any in additional profit associated with the first 6 months of investment.
Now we're going forward then I've covered the total cost of the program in the P&amp;L and any incremental yield I'd get after the first 6 months is going to go to the bottom line et cetera et cetera.
" That may not be the way you or anybody else thinks about it but that's the way I've compartmentalized it.
I will point out though that the current margin is right in the middle of the range that I gave you at FAB in May.
All the ratios are in line with those numbers I gave you.
I'll say that the expense ratio for the third quarter was at the low-end of the range the benefit ratio was at the high-end of the range but we had a lot of WAYS sales in the third quarter or in the second quarter.
So I might anticipate that those would have been a little higher.
Year-to-date we're right in the middle of things.
2012 year-to-date the margin's 20.1 and I had estimated a range in margin of 18.5 to 20.5 so actually that's way above the middle of the range of 19.5.
So I'm comfortable with the numbers we've quoted you and the margins are moving in the right direction.
I'm just trying to be conservative in saying "Don't get too excited overly excited." I've got some additional cost to cover out of these additional incremental yields.
So don't just expect the EPS to explode in the next 3 months.
But over the next year yes I think it's going to really help us and going forward is going to help us a lot.
That plus the repricing plus the other marketing adjustments we've made in our profits our product strategy.
Dan did you want to comment? Yes.
The only thing I would say is that if you take where we are today and look at where we were a year ago it's a totally different -- a way of looking at what's going on.
I mean we are in a position where every day profits -- margins and profits are going up.
And I think we're well-positioned to have a great fourth quarter and 2013 and I couldn't be more excited about the future and what's really been an ability our company to withstanding what went on with the financial crisis and now move look forward and really see some growth going ahead.
Okay thank you.
And we're going to close it down now.
If anybody wants to call with any further questions Tom and Daniel my colleague and I will be the office and we'll be glad to take your calls.
And thank you all again for joining us today.
Bye-bye.
This concludes today's presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Aflacs Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Maam you may begin.
Thank you and good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President Global Chief Investment Officer; Tohru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan who is joining us from Tokyo.
Before we start let me remind you that some statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan wholl begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and year as well as our operations in Japan and the United States.
I will then follow-up with a few financial highlights for the quarter and the year and then we will be glad to take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
The final quarter of 2012 concluded another great year for Aflac.
Let me start in more detail about the accomplishments in 2012 and our outlook for 2013 beginning with Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
Following five straight quarters of record breaking production Aflac Japans new annualized premium sales in the fourth quarter were up slightly.
Sales were 49.3 billion an increase of 1.5% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the third consecutive year Aflac Japan generated record sales results.
Our full year sales results rose 30.8% to 210.6 billion.
Youll recall that in the third quarter we said that Aflac Japan sales would be challenging for the remainder of the year and thats exactly what we saw three primary factors affected our results two of which we discussed in the third quarter.
The first and foremost factor was difficult comparisons to a year ago which primarily reflected our expansion into the bank channel.
Bank distribution has been a great benefit to us because about 70% of the bank customers are new to Aflac.
However after selling through the banks for over last several years weve already cycled through the first major pass it selling products to a large portion of the bank customers particularly our higher premium WAYS product.
Second youll recall we expected that the consumers interest in WAYS would decline in the fourth quarter as we lower the rate for the discount advanced premium from 1% to 0.5% in October.
We believe the impact from the lower DAP which was essentially a premium increase was much larger than we originally anticipated.
Third over the last several months were seeing some insurance companies and financial institutions are being more investment type products that compete with WAYS.
We believe competition amongst various companies selling investment type products will not only continue but well actually intensifies we get closer to April 1 and the repricing of these type of products will be implemented.
We anticipate repricing will suppress sales however its important to note that the pricing revisions will benefit us overall from a profitability standpoint.
When thanking of repricing for our first sector products like WAYS our objective is to balance profitability and competitiveness.
Our profitability will be enhanced by higher premiums we will be charging.
However to remain competitive we just announced that we will rise the DAP from the current 0.5% back up to the 1% effective April 1.
After reprising the DAP change we estimate the profitability of our WAYS product will range between 15% and 20% which is an acceptable margin to us.
We know the Aflac brand is strong throughout Japan and this enhances the appeal of our products in particular our third sector cancer and medical had been and will continue to be our pillar products in the foundation of the product portfolio.
In 2012 we maintained our position as the number one seller of third sector medical and cancer products in Japan.
This number one status confirms the popularity of these products and also helps drive sales because consumers want to buy from the leading [flatter].
Let me be clear remaining the number one seller of cancer and medical sales in Japan is a top priority for me.
We mentioned in May at the Analyst Briefing that we are currently underpenetrated with the consumers who are in their 20s to 40s thats the segment where we are going to focus our efforts on to increase sales of the third sector products.
As you may know banks have relationships with multiple insurance providers.
This combined with the changes in the competitive product landscape make it more challenging than ever to accurately project future Aflac Japan sales through the banks.
Clearly bank channel sales will be challenging following fast rate quarters of record-breaking sales results.
Keep in mind we wont gain insight into the bank strategies or 2013 product offerings until closer to the start of Japans fiscal year which is April 1.
Hopefully by that time we release first quarter results well be able to provide you with an update of what weve learned about bank plan to sell our products.
On the other hand we continue to have good visibility into the sales of our third sector cancer and medical products.
Our traditional channels has historically been the primary driver of third sector sales.
For 2013 we expect Aflac Japan sales of third sector cancer and medical products to be flat to up 5%.
Achieving this target is a top priority for me and our management in Japan and it affects Aflac Japans bonus as well as those in the corporate management.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operation.
From a financial perspective Aflac U.S.
performed very well in 2012.
I think weve done a good job in managing our U.S.
operations including budgets people resources.
Although new sales growth continued to be constraining our top line results had been consistently strong throughout the year in part reflecting an improved persistency.
Aflac U.S.
new annualized premium sales were in line with our most recent guidance flat for the year.
We believe persistency has improved for a couple of reasons.
First weve enhanced our customer experience at critical touch points which has resulted in better payroll retention.
And second with the economic uncertainty weve seen over the last several years many employees are less likely to switch [stops] and therefore are more likely to keep their current benefits.
While there are external factors we cant control we are driven to improve the factors we can influence.
First we continue to improve the structure of our marketing and sales area to maximize our future growth and focus on our distribution channels.
Within this new structure we are working on new training initiatives we believe will benefit our sales force and help them be more productive in the evolving environment.
Second with the brand recognition of 94% we continue to leverage the strength to capture the attention of consumers with the ultimate goal of driving sales.
We want to continue to educate consumers on our products while at the same time entertaining them.
Third we evaluate and enhance our products to ensure we are in staff with the needs of consumers particularly on the economic landscape.
In 2013 we are planning aggressive new individual and group product launches.
With our strong brand recognition and reputation for paying clients quickly and fairly we believe consumers are more receptive to our products and this can only benefit us in the future.
Additionally we will continue to evaluate other opportunities as it relates to the change in the current healthcare environment specifically the Affordable Care Act.
We do expect the changing healthcare environment to have an impact on how people choose to purchase insurance going forward.
As such we are looking at ways that we can effectively operate within the environment of state and federal healthcare delivery system.
One thing we note from our nearly four decades in Japan is that even with the national healthcare system consumers have significant out-of-pocket expenses and our products continue to be relevant to consumers.
We believe the national healthcare actually present that life with opportunities as consumers become better aware of the financial protection at lifes products.
However there are still external factors in the microenvironment that affect our business while some aspects of the U.S.
economy has shown slight signs of improvement in 2012 we can continue to see the economic landscape and the U.S.
is challenging thats especially true for small business segment where more than 90% of our products are sold.
In fact the National Federal of Independent Businesses which focuses on small business owners reported this month that the small business optimism index in December was the second lowest since March of 2010.
This means more small employers are still very guarded with respect to their business outlook including their hiring plans.
This is important because gains or losses in employment impact our universe of potential policyholders.
Before we can say we are optimistic about our sales opportunities we need to seek sustained optimism particularly surrounding the employment level to smaller businesses.
Taking all that into account for 2013 we expect Aflac U.S.
sales through the traditional and broker channel to be flat to up 5%.
Ill point out that for the first quarter we wont be surprised if sales down considering the first quarter of 2012 was our biggest percentage increase for the year.
Having discussed our operations let me give you an update on the investment function.
I remain pleased with continued progress in our global investment transformation.
We continue to grow our investment team and weve made excellent progress in the build out thats ultimately designed to improve the risk adjustment returns and the profile of our balance sheet.
As weve stated for many years our greatest investment challenge has been to invest Aflac Japan significant cash flows at reasonable investment yields.
The U.S.
corporate bond program was initiated in the third quarter continues to be an effective means for enhancing our new money yields in Japan.
Youll recall that our fourth quarter objective was to invest roughly two-thirds of our invested cash flow in U.S.
dollar denominated publicly traded corporate bonds and then hedged the currency risk.
This successful investment program enabled us to surpass our budgeted new money yield for 2012.
Its also provided greater liquidity enhanced flexibility of our portfolio and increased the opportunities to diversify beyond JGBs.
At December 31 this program represented 6.2% of the total portfolio which is well below our asset allocation target.
In light of the success of the bond program with strong credit fundamentals of investment grade corporate credits we intend to continue the program in 2013.
Consistent with our asset allocation program we will valid these investments with JGBs for diversification and liquidity as well as other investment opportunities as it may arise.
As I mentioned Aflac consolidated financial performance was strong for the quarter and for the year.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency operating earnings per diluted share rose 4.8% for the quarter and 5.1% for the year.
As the program progressed operating earnings per diluted share were better-than-expected and we finish the year towards a high-end of the objective of the 3% to 6% increase before the impact of currency.
Im also very pleased with the strength of the capital ratios which demonstrates our commitment to maintaining financial strength and flexibility on behalf of the policyholders to shareholders and bondholders through strong surplus growth and improved portfolio risk profile and a weaker yen our capital ratios improved significantly in 2012.
We previously conveyed that our goal in 2012 with an RBC in the range of 400 to 500.
While we have not yet completed our statutory financial statements we believe the RBC ratio at the year-end was significantly higher than our targets.
Additionally we expect that Aflac Japans solvency margin at the end improved over the solvency margin ratio at September 30 for 628%.
That would put the year-end SMR well above our target range of 500% to 600%.
As we have indicated given our capital structure our ability to repurchase shares is largely tied to profit repatriation.
Contemplating profit repatriation our first consideration is protection of the policyholders as measured by the SMR.
Next we give consideration to the needs of the parent company and consult with Japans management in making the determination.
We now expect profit repatriation to be around 50 billion for 2013 which is a reasonable estimate assuming that we have no additional investment losses that would reduce Aflac Japans operating income.
Profit repatriation in 2013 could provide us with the significant amount of capital that could be deployed for share repurchase.
As weve said for many years when it comes to deploying capital for the benefit of our shareholders we still believe that growing the cash dividend and repurchasing our shares are the most attractive means and that is something that we will continue to pursue.
Our capital strength enables us to increase cash dividend to the shareholders in the fourth quarter for the 30 consecutive year.
Our objective is to grow the dividend and a rate that is in line with our earnings per share growth before the impact of the yen.
Given the strength of our capital ratios and the parent company liquidity we resume our share repurchase activities by buying approximately a $100 million for the shares in the fourth quarter of 2012.
At our current plan to purchase 400 million to 600 million of our shares in 2013 understand unless there is extraordinary then occurs we intend to purchase at least $400 million of our shares.
Remember we are driving the company for increased profitability not sales.
Sales are important in that our management is bonused on them but there is still just one component of earnings.
Let me also say that we havent missed an earnings target because of lower sales nor do we expect that to happen.
This year the other components that need into the profitability include persistency investment income claims management and expense controls.
Its often difficult to foresee the specifics of how these factors ultimately produce our earnings.
Sometimes one aspect of the business might be a little stronger and one might prove to be a little more challenging but we anticipate these type of things in the budgeting process.
Ultimately the accomplishments of the fundamental facets of our business align and create another year in which we deliver on our financial growth objectives.
I want to reiterate that objectives for 2013 have not changed.
The increased operating earnings per diluted share 4% to 7% this range reflects the impact of the portfolio of derisking and investing significant cash flows at low interest rates.
I would also point out that we had a better year in 2012 than expected in large part due to the receipts of the deferred coupon in the first quarter and lower annual effective tax rate.
This will make it a more challenging comparison to 2013 but we will achieve it.
In addition to operating earnings growth weve also focused on producing industry leading return on equity.
On an operating basis 2012 ROE was 24.6% and as we conveyed at our financial analyst briefing for 2013 we believe that its reasonable to see our operating ROE in the range of 22% to 26%.
Overall I am pleased with Aflacs position in Japan and the U.S.
the two largest insurance markets in the world.
First and foremost we are focused on protecting our policyholders in providing value to our investors.
We are fortunate within the process of doing so; we have the privilege of providing financial protection to more than 50 million people worldwide.
Robin? Thank you Dan.
Let me go through some fourth quarter numbers starting with Aflac Japan.
Beginning with top line in the interim revenues were up 10.5% for the quarter investment income was up 5.2%.
Excluding the effect of the weaker yen in the quarter on Aflac Japans dollar denominated investment income net investment income rose 3.6%.
The persistency rate improved in the quarter and the annualized rate excluding annuities for the year was 94.9% compared with 94.4% a year ago.
In terms of quarterly operating ratio the benefit ratio the total premium increased over last year going from 72.9% a year go to 74.5% in this quarter.
This is primarily due to the growth of the net benefit reserves for our ordinary line of business most notably our WAYS product.
The expense ratio was 18.4% down from 19.1% in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The decrease reflected tight general expense control as well as lower commission cost associated with the sales of our first sector products primarily the WAYS again.
Pretax profit margin declined during the quarter going from 18.8% to 17.7% with the contraction of the margin pretax earnings increased 4.1% in yen terms.
Now let me turn to Aflac U.S.
total revenues rose 5.8% for the quarter the annualized persistency rate for the year improved from 76.2% a year ago to 77.1% and looking at the operating ratios for the quarter as the benefit ratio to total premium declined slightly from 57.7% a year ago to 57.4% in the quarter.
The operating expense ratio increased slightly going from 34.2% a year ago to 34.6%.
The profit margin for the quarter was unchanged from a year ago at 14.6%.
Pretax operating earnings increased 5.9% for the quarter.
Turning to the investment activity for the quarter starting with Aflac Japan for the quarter approximately $3.1 billion of Aflac Japans new cash flow was invested in the corporate bond program for the growth yield of 3.22% at an annualized hedge cost 41 bips the yield net of hedge cost was 2.81%.
Additionally we invested $1.4 billion from the proceeds generated as the result of the booking activity.
This brings the total cash flow invested in the corporate bond program for the year to approximately $7 billion with a total yield on the corporate bond program of 3.3%.
Approximately 35% of our new cash flow was invested in JGBs in the fourth quarter for an average yield of 1.77%.
In Japan the total new money yields for the quarter was 2.73% down three basis points from September 30 and up 65 basis points from a year ago.
The portfolio yield was 2.87% at the end of December or 3 basis points from end of September and 42 basis points lower than year ago.
JGC yield saw some increase towards the end of December as December the 31 full year JGB yield were 1.75% 11 basis points increase from September 30.
Ten-year JGB yield as of December 31 were 0.79% a one dip increase from September 30.
In terms of U.S.
investments to new money yield for the quarter was 3.52% a decline of 42 basis points from September 30 and 183 points from a year ago.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of December was 6.35% down 16 basis points from September 30 and 37 basis points from a year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter non-insurance interest expense in the quarter was $50 million compared with $42 million a year ago.
The higher interest expense primarily reflected increased borrowing during the year compared to a year ago.
Total company pre-tax operating margins declined reflecting the increase of the benefit ratio in Japan caused by strong sales of ordinary line of business.
Parent company and other expenses decreased from $20 million a year ago to $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On operating basis the tax rate is 34.1% compared with 34.6% a year ago.
Consistent with what we said last quarter going forward we expect the effective tax rate throughout 2013 to be between 34% and 34.5% excluding tax benefits recognized in 2012 and assuming FSA earned premiums on year-over-year which is in line with Dans comments earlier.
As Dan mentioned weve taken several actions during the year to utilize capital loss that will expire in 2013 and only significantly reduce the losses that are scheduled to expire in 2014.
We expect to continue the actions we have initiated to utilize the remaining capital loss carryforwards in managing our investment portfolio.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share rose 2.1% to $1.48 in the quarter which again decreased operating earnings by $0.04 per diluted share excluding the yen impact operating earnings per share increased 4.8% for the quarter.
Lastly let me comment on the earnings outlook for 2013.
As youve heard Dan say weve affirmed our guidance for 2013 of 4% to 7% increase in operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of the yen.
To understand the significant our 2013 EPS objective over 2012 actual results winning to this perspective for you.
In 2012 we received tax benefit from our tax exempt for the years 2008 and 2009 and weve made a revision for the full year impact of tax effective tax rate.
The unusual benefits received in 2012 totaled approximately $38 or $0.08 per share.
We also recovered a previously written-off coupon as part of the sales transaction executed during the year that resulted in a one-time benefit to operating earnings of $23 million or $0.05 per share.
If you exclude the impact of these benefits from the 2012 operating earnings note operating earnings per diluted share in sale would have been $6.47.
This year we estimate that a 1 move on the average annual exchange rate will equal approximately $4.3 for diluted share.
Considering the weakening of the yen in recent months if we achieve our objective of 47% increase in operating earnings per diluted share for the year at yen averages 90% for the full year we would expect operating EPS to be in the range of $6.37 to $6.57 per diluted share.
Now were ready to take your questions.
To be fair to everybody please remember to limit yourselves to one initial question and only one follow-up that relates to the initial question.
Now well be happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Great thank you.
Good morning everyone.
So we see Japan benefit ratio clearly quite a large increase this quarter on a sequential basis.
But at least historically fourth quarter  did we have some reserve recalibrations? Im hoping to get some color on how much reserve recalibrations impacted the ratio this quarter and with around back of the trends weve seen emerge whether we should be expecting a somewhat higher benefit ratio in 2013 than your previous year guidance back in Investor day? Thanks.
Hey Nigel its Kriss Cloninger bit of a scratchy voice this time.
But youre correct that the fourth quarter benefit ratio was higher than those we experienced in the first three quarters partly because of (inaudible) reserve recalibrations.
And we typically do in conjunction with reviews of primarily closed lots of business in Japan and U.S.
where we look at the reserve balances that we forecasted.
Relative to the interest rates you used in valuing those blocks in the prior year our SOX procedure is required that we do this and the fourth quarter is kind of a routine thing.
And this year we increased the benefit reserves on a Japanese block of business that we call Dementia.
Youve probably heard of it before.
Its similar to long-term care in the U.S.
and that was approximately 3 billion reserve increase in the fourth quarter.
I believe we had a similar adjustment in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
And actually the fourth quarter of the prior year was up even more than the first three quarters.
But that doesnt indicate that thats going to have a trend going forward Nigel.
The ratios excluding that reserve adjustment were right in the middle of the trends Ive shown at the FAB meeting last May or work out what the expected benefit expense ratios and profit margins were for the core health and other block and the ordinary block separately and then I aggregated on the total.
And all of our ratios fell within those ranges that I guided to last May and I believe that those ranges will continue to prevail throughout 2013.
As I indicated last May there are two year weighted-average ratio expected for 2012 and 2013 and so were still in good shape in that regard.
As a matter of fact our 2012 experienced profit margin came in right in the middle of the range 19.5%.
Benefit ratio was a little bit higher.
Expense ratio was a little bit lower.
In the aggregate because we produced more WAYS than we produced health benefits and so that affected the weighted-average.
The final thing Ill say is that I do caveat things last May saying okay these are ratios that will prevail over the course of the two year period but youre going to see some seasonal fluctuations and I was thinking primarily of the fourth quarter adjustments that we made that you saw and pointed out.
So Ill conclude just by saying I believe everything is in line with what we had expected.
Very helpful.
Thanks Kriss.
Your next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMorgan.
Hi good morning.
I had question on capital repatriation just wondering how you think about or actually capital deployment? How do you think about the pick-up in RBC and the solvency margin given the weaker yen? Would you be willing to deploy the extra points for buybacks or something else or is that unlikely given that the currency can move around.
And then related to that just maybe Dan if you could comment on or Kriss just the pace of buybacks expected for 2013 should it be more front-end loaded or would you do it either later through the year? Jimmy this is Ken.
Let me start out with the RBC SMR question.
Clearly we are benefitting from a weaker yen.
1 move probably adds about 3 to 4 points in the SMR about 4 5 points on the RBC.
But what well do is well have to evaluate it as we get a little bit closer especially with respect to repatriation.
Weve always discussed our RBC and SMR in terms of the yen sensitivity so we do want to make sure that we provide for some kind of buffer if we see a reversal in the yen weakening because strengthening the yen would penalize a little bit.
What was the other question Ive got? just the pace of buybacks? I think if there is an opportunity in the first quarter well take advantage of it a little bit more so than we would in the second half because it just ensures earnings growth and it benefits us.
And I add to that Jimmy we do have pretty good liquidity at the parent company.
Our operating cash balance was about $770 million at the end of 2012.
And clearly buying earlier in the year has a greater benefit to EPS for the year.
And you mentioned the $400 million at a minimum on buybacks but the top end of your range is $600 million.
How likely is $600 million given that if you look at current exchange rates your repatriation amounts actually implies some $500 million at current exchange rate? Well we have no problem with that additional capital at the corporate level if we need it to being able to do that.
So we are going to take it as it evolves but I think the way you should do this is that 400 million where were trying to unless some cataclysmic event guarantee and we like to do more than that and well watch it as the year goes on and make a decision accordingly.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Eric Berg RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks very much.
I apologize for the background noise.
Ill go on mute if necessary after asking my question.
So you have your discounted advance premium and with a greater boom to sales but then it sort of profitability so you took it away.
But that hurt sales terribly so now you are bringing it back.
Two questions one where does it leave you from a profitability point of view? In other words you did you do this and where does this lead why was this great decision to take it away and then bring it back.
And dont you on the risk of confusing customers and distributors by well flip flopping right a bit? Thank you.
Well its actually not so much flip flopping because we are only putting it in effect when the rate increase goes into effect.
So in essence we didnt want to double rate increase to them.
So what weve done is we put the rate increase in effect although the DAP going from 1 to 0.5 and then we are bringing it back because weve got another rate increase on top of that and Kriss can talk about that but the actual rate increase was more appropriate last year at this time with the declining interest rate and an increasing interest rate that were moving into right now.
Kriss? Well I just say Eric as we saw declining interest rates throughout 2012 we felt like we will be in pressure to own profitability from the MEMS popularity of the 1% DAP rate and the significant impact on production of WAYS.
I mean we were getting extraordinary volumes and WAYS production and we felt like may be we were selling dollar bills for $0.50 kind of thing.
So we felt like in order to project the margins going forward we needed to diminish some of the perhaps above average appeal for the WAYS product by cutting the DAP rate to the level that most other companies were crediting which was in the neighborhood of 0.5%.
So we implemented that in October.
We did several other things during the same period of time when interest rates were declining during 2012.
We with some production caps on child endowment and we revisit the five WAYS and things like that.
So we were trying to protect the profitability that the analyst community and we were concerned about.
And so we try to protect our core profitability when we made those changes.
Now from April 1 we are going to reprise products given the change in the standard valuation interest rate down to 1% premium rates and the WAYS products are going to go up 15% to 20% the margins are going to go up towards 20% as a percent of premium and we felt like we needed to restore some of the market appeal of the discount advanced premium rate so we decided we could easily afford to change it back from 0.5% to 1% in order to better foster us competitively in the industry.
So its not a flip-flop its a reaction to changes and market conditions is how I will characterize it.
Let me say this Eric we knew when we introduced cutting the DAP that this was a possibility we might do in April.
So we told the bank that was always a possibility that it could happen.
So here then is my follow-up.
Lets not call a foot path thats too harsh a word it is what it is you make one decision and as youve changed of course.
By taking the tax as you have I get some interest it sounds like you will not be as well off from a profitability point of view or March in point of view as would have been the case if you kept this DAP in place.
But net-net where will all these actions leave you once you have and the outline is total dollar profit not margins right.
Its about total dollar profits and up-sell not up margins but total dollar profit.
So net-net when you have the price increase in April but you restore the full DAP where will that leave you relative to what would have been the case if you were kept the DAP in place? Thank you.
Well you are exactly right Eric.
Its a question of the trade-off and volume versus margin.
And thats what I said when we went into WAYS in the first place relative to the third sector of health.
We are going to ride a higher volume of products with a lower margin.
We finally decided okay the margins got too low given the interest rate environment.
So we took the repricing action of lowering the DAP in order to restore some margin.
When we do that we knew we were going to loose some volume that which we did here in the fourth quarter.
So thats  but if you say the impact of total profitability you can get as much profit with a lower volume of higher margin products and you end with a higher volume of lower margin products.
That come April 1 were being forced by market changes to increase the base policy premium rates on the WAYS.
But in order to stay competitive we believe it is necessary to go ahead and increase the DAP rate so that we dont lose so much volume associated with being uncompetitive that we dont achieve the margin.
So you are right if we maintain DAP at 0.5% our margin would have been higher but it would have been closer to 25% then say the high-teens to 20% that we expect after we rise the DAP back to 1%.
And we think that that will pass us in the market to be competitive and will achieve a higher volume of production at a reasonable margin and enhance the overall profitability of company.
Yeah I want to say one thing this is not uncommon in the life insurance area when you are dealing with these type of issues.
We knew it going in we knew that when we decreased the DAP we could raise it back because of the other depending on what was happening.
If we had been an environment where between October and now we saw interest rates going down we certainly would have kept it enforce.
But it gives us flexibility to monitor and adjust but there is nothing that our competitors are not doing too and we are totally aware of it.
Now from your standpoint its new  in the third sector products we never had these issues.
But we are very aware of it we are on top of it and we understand what were doing.
Thank you for your very complete answer.
Your next question comes from Chris Giovanni Goldman Sachs.
Thanks so much.
I guess first question around the independent agency count in Japan which showed a significant decline quarter-over-quarter and now down to I think levels seen in 2008.
So just want to be curious whats going on there is that really what you are kind of playing for and focusing on with the focus now on cancer and typical third sector product sales? Tohru you want to answer that? Yes thank you.
Yes let me say that the decline in the number of the recruits of the individual agents is something we intended to do because we found that in the past couple of years we found that recruiting too many agents and training them are not effective  efficient enough for us to do it.
So instead we decided to shift some of our resources used for that purpose to other more productive areas including the bank channel development.
So we shifted the people and money from that to other areas.
And that as a result as you may see the number of the recruits dropped substantially.
But weve made more efforts in training them  training the smaller number of the new ridicules so that we can be productive in short period of time.
So even though the number of recruits declined over more than 30% the rate of  I would say the success rate of the first year recruits the ratio of the newly recruited agents becoming productive within the year increased by 13%.
So net-net the annual premium our sales produced by these first year recruits were down around the growing was somewhat less than 600 million.
Lets put it in the perspective that is on the  less than 0.3% of our total annual premium.
So we believe that decline was made up or more than made up by the growth in other areas to which we shifted our resources.
If dont tell how much will be increased by them.
But we are confident that was  we did it on purpose and we are confident that we did the things right.
Okay.
And then just my follow-up question you obviously talked about rising the DAP now.
You didnt make a number of other changes to kind of restrict some sales in the bank channel.
So curious if now that Erics getting better new money ratio over there if you guys would consider loosening up any of those other changes as well if sales dont come true? We have loosened up the restrictions on the Charles Dalmon.
We have put some production limits employees that weve loosened up.
Were not changing the 5-pay WAYS decision.
We feel like that was a good decision to put the emphasis more on the 10-pay WAYS.
It has 10 years of inter-charge so were not changing that but we are staying with the whole life WAYS and making changes to the discounted advanced premium rate and of course premium levels or WAYS in general.
Were also looking at sales incentives to certain banks and to address competitive situation for other companies that come in and given incentives and the like.
So the market response to competitive conditions is multifaceted should I say and were trying to stay on top of it all because we have relationships with virtually all the banks in Japan.
So we get feedbacks (inaudible) and were continuing to emphasis staying competitive.
But I think the message that I would give you is that the foundation that it build out life Japan which is cancer.
And now medical is what we are concentrating on because it was a somewhat of an anomaly the way it happened with the banks and our ability to write that first sector product specifically WAYS.
We took it because it was there and it was a great profit for us.
But were now shifting money and resources back to the traditional channel which where is we believe is we want to stay number one in both medical and cancer.
And thats what we plan on doing going forward and thats where the bonuses are tied and now we just get back to hit.
But it was a strategic decision weve made at that time.
We told you that we didnt know how long it would last.
We now see it coming more to an end and we see us concentrating on bank and the profit margins we discussed in the past and going back to doing that on the third sector.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from Randy Binner FBR.
Great thanks.
Just want to pick up on the repatriation conversation from a different angle.
I think Jimmy was asking about how the currency impacts but I was more curious to kind of understand what the methodology was that led to these impairments this quarter on Tunisia and UniCredit.
And just to clarify if those were impaired or sold I guess what Im trying to get to is to understand if there is other bonds that are still kind of in low mark-to-market positions if those could be at risk in the next couple of quarters and if that would work against potential repatriation.
Let me start by reminding everybody that the strategy throughout 2012 particularly after the first quarter when we did a very specific derisking program was to look at our portfolio throughout the year and be opportunistic with respect to when good opportunities presented themselves to improve the quality of the balance sheet that we would do that but only do that but it represented good value for our policy and shareholders.
We did not sell anything in a panic throughout the year.
Were very careful and we had a very successful year altogether reducing about $4.6 billion of multiple positions throughout Europe and the financial and we do not have a specific derisking strategy going forward.
Having said that we will always look for opportunities to improve the risk return profile this balance sheet for the long-term and if we see something of value then of course well take advantage of that.
With respect to your two specific questions with respect to UniCredit thats a good example.
Thats an example of a credit it could have been comfortable holding but amongst our holdings we felt there were some respect to UniCredit itself and its not going to affect our particular holdings.
I can tell you early in 2012 we saw values for those particular assets that did not represent good value for our shareholders or policyholders and we said thanks but no thanks.
In an improved market as weve had we saw particularly good value and in fact that (inaudible) is associated with the sale of those securities.
To measure on the other hand its slightly different in terms of the risk that we see.
As you may know in December I got downgraded by one of the agencies and in our view the risk with Tunisia is more geopolitical risk as opposed to credit risk but nevertheless because of the situation in the Middle East the risk will cognizant enough.
With those things in mind we did decide to take an impairment reflecting our current views on Tunisia which we thought that was the conservative thing to do.
On a forward-looking basis there is no specific derisking program.
But of course we will always look at our holdings we will react to credit ratings we will react to market conditions and take appropriate actions when we feel necessary.
I think as you look over the next 12 months Europe is still of course a concern prior authorizations in Europe have decreased.
As you look at that as a percentage of portfolio its down from about a year ago 30% to 20%.
And I have said as that bucket of assets continue to decrease the quality of what we hold in Europe is actually increasing vis--vis the total bucket of what we had in Europe.
I dont expect Europe to become volatile as it did during 2011 and 2012 but you cant rule that out.
So assuming anything from a stable environment we wont expect much activity or impact to our holdings.
Of course Europe should become more volatile that would create for our holdings perhaps some rating pressures but again the size of our assets in Europe the financials have all been reduced substantially.
So its much lower risk than we faced when I arrived a little over a year ago.
Thank you for that.
Those were very comprehensive.
One quick follow-up just kind of from me  there is a little bit of overlap or timing issues with FSA year and then the way we look at the company.
But just to clarify the risk to the repatriation would be whatever credit losses could happen in the first and second quarter of 2013.
Is that correct? Jr.</strong> This is Ken Randy.
Yeah thats correct.
Its really until we file our FSA financial statements which is typically done at early mid-June.
Perfect thanks.
Jr.</strong> All the losses that we incurred through the fourth quarter of 2012 are reflected in our current outlook for FSA results.
Understood.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Tom Gallagher Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
I guess for Dan or Kriss if you are not able to give us WAYS sales guidance for 2013 how confident are you for 2013 EPS guidance? And just asking that obviously because WAYS were about 45% of your sales in Japan last year.
Im extremely confident.
Ive never missed earnings guidance since Ive been CEO on 23 years.
Saying that its harder now that it used to be but in my mind I have a number for what I think bank sales will be.
But I will remind you that last year I told you would be down 10% on this call and we were up 30%.
So to make a projection when there was that most volatility last year just seeing some  it would not be a realistic number.
So I just want to wait so I get a little closer and see whats going to happen.
But with all the things we have and going on in terms of persistency the controls weve had over the budget the claims and how they track exactly where we said we would the new money rate on an upward trajectory all those things made me confident that we will achieve it.
But again its a little harder because of different things.
Jr.</strong> Yeah Tom this is Ken let me add one thing because youve seen this story before.
You recall in early 2000s we had sales pressures in Japan following the liberalization of their market.
We had sales pressures in the United States following our duck bubble and sales hit done so well for a period of a few years.
In all of those times we didnt miss earnings and largely thats because the vast majority of our revenues and earnings come from a renewable source.
When you consider the persistency rates about 90% of Japans premium income comes from renewals and investment income is largely from a renewal source.
So we have a pretty good idea right now what about 80% to 85% of our revenues are going to look like for 2013 and with the stability of the and predictability of the benefit and expense ratios thats what gives us visibility into earnings.
So the bottom line is we have more visibility into the income statement than we do right now for the sales to the bank channel.
Thats helpful.
And just my follow-up is the 15% to 20% acceptable margin I just want to make sure I understand the parameters of that and Kriss thats 15% to 20% versus premium or is that total revenues? Its like present value profits to present value premiums its kind of an actuarial thing but its really representative of the GAAP profit margin as a percent of well it be revenues.
And when you say present value is there  are we going to see any accounting disconnect from that in the first year or two that those products come on the books meaning is it lower in the initial years or where we see that level of profitability emerge from a GAAP accounting standpoint kind of right out of the gate? Well for all of our business weve got several calls at a non-referable that we expensed in the first year.
But other than those non-referable expenses the margins tend to be level for each year of the product life as a percent of revenue.
Got it.
So for a year or two thats when you see emerge year one the same.
Right right.
Okay thanks.
Okay.
Your next question comes from Eric Bass Citigroup.
Hi good morning.
Robin touched a little bit on the deferred tax assets and I was just hoping if you could provide a little bit more color on what you are doing and kind of what the cash tax benefit is to the company? And then I guess related if there is any potential to accelerate some of the tax assets that are maturing in future years? So Eric this is Ken.
We entered into series of transactions last year without getting a great detail but that allowed us to offset all of the tax base losses that we incurred for 2012 as well as to eliminate the carryforwards all of the carryforwards to 2013 which amounted to $214 million.
In a substantial portion about 60% of the tax loss carryforwards that expire in 2014 about 60%.
So we feel like were in pretty good shape.
Were going to continue to explore transactions like economic sense to the company first and foremost then that would benefit our operations and hopefully well be able to address those in the process.
Okay.
And just remind thats kind of what the aggregate amount of future potential deferred tax assets you have remaining? Weve got about $2 billion remaining little less than $2 billion.
The most significant portion of which is $1.3 billion of losses that were generated in 2011 that would expire in 2016.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Eric.
And we have time for one more question.
Your last question comes from John Nadel Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Thank you.
Most of my questions have been asked and answered but maybe Ill follow-up a little bit on WAYS.
In the second half of 2012 your new money investment rate in Japan was considerably above the 2.50% level where I think in the past youve indicated you need that level of investment rate to be able to hit that 17% to 21% targeted margin on your prior WAYS design.
So we ignore Kriss the impact of those non-deferrable costs that you mentioned in the response to Tom would you say that your WAYS sales in the second half of 2012 were achieving those targeted margins? Yes I believe they were John particularly with the higher investment yield and the like combined with the reduction in the discounted advance premium rate.
Actually if we could continue say the 2.5% that investment yield on new money I wish we didnt have to change anything as far as discounted advance premium and gross premium rates which we didnt have to go through this re-pricing activity.
Weve got to go through on April 1.
So margins were good in my mind so we have no choice relative to re-pricing April 1 because if we dont re-price there is going to be significant regulatory surplus associated with the higher reserves associated with the 1% standard valuation rate.
I was comfortable with the fourth quarter margin given the higher net investment yield and thats why we feel confident that we can restore discounted advance premium rate from April 1.
Agee</strong> And then just a quick follow-up.
So if we then if we are thinking about that hitting that targeted margin with the 2.5% or better investment yield new money investment yield in your one with taking into account to non-deferrable cost how much does that cut into that margin in year one.
I mean Im thinking about it this way you had massive WAYS sales in 2011 they more than doubled in 2012 I mean is it possible that with those non-deferrable cost behind you at least on those two big years of sales that the margin jumps in 2013? Certainly well on that block of business thats for sure.
Agee</strong> And I mean order of magnitude Kriss can you give us a sense for how much those non-deferrable cost drag that margin in year one?  Yeah let me think for just a second.
I would say they could train at 20% to 30% of premium.
So we might be looking at flat virtually zero to slightly negative margin.
In the actual reported in the first 12 months of the businesses in effect actually it pretty much a course of the issue at the time of issue because when the business goes on the books we first put up the deferred acquisition cost and thats an offset to the expenses incurred.
But the asset we established is not as high as the actual expenses that we incur particularly into the new DAC standard that we have to implement recently.
So thats a bit of a drain but it happens all the time and so we got a mixed year of second year business coming in with a higher margin and new business going on the books with lower.
But you are right the big volume of WAYS we put on the books depress the margin in particularly the third and fourth quarter.
Agee</strong> And Im sorry if I could sneak one more follow-up on it because I think its important.
I mean it sort of comes back to the question around expectation for sales of this product in 2013 if the year one margin is zero to slightly negative but the year two margin can be mid-teens or higher then it seems pretty important to understand or to have some expectation as to whether WAYS sales are going to be down up or flat in 2013 versus 2012? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
Well you are right.
And then we will relieve some of that strain associated with non-deferrable acquisition cost and the new business will come on in a higher margin.
Thats what I was trying to get to back in Eric Birds question.
If you ride up higher volume and lower margin business you achieve one level of profit.
Then subsequently if you ride a lower volume and higher margin business you can be similar and in total profitability I think thats what you are getting at is that even though sales are going to be down profits are going to be down nearly as much and may impact the up.
Agee</strong> Well I mean in fact it seems based on your answers around the non-deferrable cost for instance if we have sales R&amp;D down year-over-year in 2013 that profits has to be up or else equal Jr.</strong> If you get to Kens point about 90% of the profits being associated with renewal business.
So Agee</strong> Plus the lack of the non-deferrable costs? Jr.</strong> Yeah.
For all the margin you are correct.
Agee</strong> All right.
Thank you very much.
Thanks.
All right.
Thank you very much.
If you want to call later on the office in to ask any follow-up questions please do so.
If not we have everything out on our website and we appreciate you attending the conference call.
Thank you.
This does conclude todays conference.
Thank you for attending.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good morning and welcome to the Aflacs First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Maam you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac and COO of U.S.
Operations; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President Global Chief Investment Officer; and Tohru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan who is joining us from Tokyo.
Before we start let me remind you of some statements in this teleconference that are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan wholl begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and our operations in Japan and the U.S.
I will then follow up with a few financial highlights for the first quarter then we will be glad to take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I am very pleased that we met and in many cases exceeded our financial and operational targets for first quarter.
Let me began with an update of Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
New annualized premium sales in the first quarter were up 2.6% to 53.8 billion.
Revenues grew 9.7% and pretax earnings were up 10.7% for the quarter.
Sales for the first sector products including WAYS and (inaudible) came in better than expected in the first quarter.
This was primarily driven by consumers who wanted to make insurance purchases of first sector products ahead of the rate increase on April 2.
I had said that I would not be surprised if we saw WAYS sales down 40% to 60% following the rate increase.
Based on early sales indications for April that seems like a reasonable estimate.
Banks also had a strong sales push in order to end their fiscal year with solid sales results.
Additionally we have seen consumer show interest in a variety of investment type products especially with JGB yields at historic low rates and the Nikkei having risen considerably over the past several months.
As such we expect the sales of our first sector products particularly WAYS to be down significantly for the remainder of the year.
With respect to total third sector products combined cancer and medical insurance sales were down 7.1% for the quarter which was in line with our expectations.
However remaining the leading provider of third sector products is important to us and is the foundation of our product portfolio.
We anticipate focusing more on third sector product development now that the first sector rerating has been complete.
We mentioned last year that we are currently under penetrated in the consumers who are in their 20s to 40s.
Im pleased to tell you that were working on getting approval of a new medical product with the FSA.
As such we anticipate very strong second half sales.
Taking all these factors into account I believe that 2013 expectation that Aflac Japan third sector cancer and medical will be flat to up 5% is still reasonable.
Now let me turn to the U.S operations.
As I mentioned last quarter I wouldnt be if sales were down slightly in the first quarter considering our biggest percentage increase last year came in the first quarter.
Our results were consistent with that expectation.
Aflac U.S new annualized premium sales were down 5.2% for the quarter.
We know that small employers are still guarded with respect to their business outlook.
In addition some employees have been reluctant to make changes in their benefits in advance of the healthcare reform implementation.
In terms of relief of small businesses if there is any recovery at all it seems to be a jobless recovery.
While there are several factors that we cant control we are driven to improve the factors that we can influence.
We continue to expand our marketing activities to maximize our future growth.
With brand recognition at 94% we continue to leverage our popularity to capture the attention of the consumers with the ultimate goal of driving sales.
I hope youve seen our new U.S commercials that portray the Aflac duck as a policy holder and claimant.
They have been very popular.
We want to continue to educate consumers about our products while at the same time entertaining them.
Additionally we evaluate and enhance our products to ensure that we are in step with the needs of the consumers particularly in this economic landscape.
Were also planning some aggressive new individual and group product launches.
With a strong brand recognition and reputation for paying claims quickly and fairly we believe consumers will be more receptive to purchasing our products.
As you know a lot of changes are taking place in the U.S healthcare environment and we expect these changes to impact how people choose to purchase insurance going forward.
We are spending a great deal of time ensuring that were prepared to approach this change from a position of strength.
Our job is to be multi-faceted in our distribution to make sure we have the presence where the consumer wants to purchase the products.
There are different distribution possibilities were working on from creating a private exchange to expanding our reach through insurance brokers to empowering our individual agents.
One thing we know from nearly four decades in Japan is that even with national healthcare system consumers have significant out of pocket expenses and our products continue to be relevant in their needs.
Although there will be more competition we believe the national healthcare system in the U.S actually presents Aflac with opportunities as consumers become more aware of financial protection Aflac products help provide.
As I mentioned first quarter sales comparisons are the most challenging of the year.
We expect sales to be weighted more towards the latter half of the year.
We believe its reasonable to expect Aflac U.S sales through our traditional and broker channels to be flat to up 5% for the year.
Having discussed our operations let me give you an update on the investment function.
We made excellent progress in the build out of our investment team and implementation of our investment strategy.
I am pleased we did not have any major investment losses in the first quarter.
While we still view Europe as an area of investment risk I believe our portfolio is better positioned than ever to accommodate market volatility in the future.
Also we are optimistic in the future derisking of our portfolio including the sale of 25% of our Tunisian bondholders.
As we have stated for many years our greatest investment challenge has been to invest Aflac's significant cash flow at reasonable investment yields.
The U.S.
corporate bond program initiated in July of last year continues to an effective means for enhancing Aflac Japan's new money yield.
In addition to the attractive returns we are pleased with the positive impact to our overall portfolio of quality and liquidity.
For the past two quarters we have invested roughly two-thirds of our investment cash flows in U.S.
denominated publicly traded corporate bonds and then hedged the currency risk.
At March 31 this program represented 8.7% of our total portfolio which is well below our strategic asset allocation range.
Additionally as part of our investment strategy we have said we would invest about one-third of our cash flow in JGBs.
However with 10-year JGB yields hitting historic lows we want to be flexible in our asset allocation.
We anticipate that the bank of Japan will keep interest rates low for the immediate future.
Our investment team is carefully monitoring Japan's monetary and fiscal policy.
As we have seen significant changes impacting financial markets including Japan interest rates and yen/dollar exchange rates.
We are evaluating our investment options and looking for alternatives to lower our planned JGB new money investment allocation.
We will consider diversification and liquidity as we approach these investment choices.
As I mentioned that Aflac's consolidated financial performance was extremely strong for the quarter excluding the impact from foreign currency operating earnings per diluted share rose 5.7% for the quarter.
I was also very pleased with the increasing strength of capital ratios which demonstrates our commitment to maintaining financial strength and flexibility on behalf of our policy holders shareholders and bondholders.
While we have not yet completed our statutory financial statements we estimate our quarterly RBC ratio at March 31 was above our 2012 year-end ratio of 630%.
We believe Aflac Japan's solvency margin ratio in March 31 will also improve over the year-end 2012 level of 669%.
As we have communicated given the capital structure our ability to repurchase share is largely tied to profit repatriation.
In contemplating profit repatriation our first consideration is the safety of the policyholders as measured by the SMR.
Next we consider the needs of the parent company and consult with Japan's management in making the determination.
We currently expect 2013 profit repatriation to be a bit higher than the 50 billion we communicated last quarter.
This assumes we have no additional material investment losses between now and mid-June when we file Aflac Japan's FSA based financial statements.
As we have said for many years when it comes to deploying capital we still believe that growing cash dividend and repurchasing our share are the most attractive means and those are the avenues we will continue to pursue.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at a rate that is in line with earnings per share growth before the impact of the yen.
We have a lot of flexibility at the parent company in terms of liquidity.
Given the liquidity and the strength of our capital ratios we plan to purchase $400 million to $600 million of our shares in 2013.
We are off to a great a start with our share repurchase plans for the year.
In the first quarter we purchased approximately 3 million shares or about $150 million.
I think this shows that we are even more comfortable with this rate.
Additionally we expect to accelerate our share repurchase in 2014.
Maintaining strong capital levels remains a priority for us.
At the same time generating an industry leading return on equity excluding the Yen impact is also extremely important to us and to our owners.
Accordingly the compensation committee of the Aflacs board of directors made a decision to include operating ROE as a component of the bonus structure for Aflac senior management effective this year.
On an operating basis our first quarter ROE was 23.4%.
Keep in mind our ROE is sensitive to currency fluctuations because we have largely hedged equity into dollars but not all of our earnings.
This means when the Yen weakens our ROE declines.
Had the Yen remained unchanged since the end of the year our operating ROE would have been 26.1%.
So even with the weaker Yen I think its still reasonable to expect our operating ROE to range between 20% and 25% for 2013.
In yesterdays release we reaffirmed our 2013 guidance of 4% to 7% increase in operating earnings per share excluding the impact of currency.
This range reflects the impact of investing significant cash flows at historically low interest rates.
I would also remind you that our 2012 earnings were better than expected.
Although the Yen is significantly weaker to the dollar the fundamentals of our business and our operations are strong.
Overall Im pleased with Aflacs position in Japan and the United States the two largest insurance markets in the world and first and foremost we are focused on protecting our policy holders and providing value to our investors.
Were fortunate that in the process of doing so we have the privilege of providing financial protection to more than 50 million worldwide.
Now Ill turn the program over to Robin.
Thanks Dan.
Let me go through some first quarter numbers starting with Aflac Japan.
Beginning with top line revenues were up 9.7% for the quarter.
Excluding the effect of the weaker Yen in the quarter revenues were up 8.4%.
The annualized persistency rate excluding annuities in the quarter were strong at 95.0% compared with 94.5% last year.
Net investment income increased 7.3%.
Excluding the benefit of the weaker Yen in the quarter on Aflac Japans dollar denominated investment income net investment income rose 1.2%.
In terms of quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio to total premiums increased over last year going from 71.5% a year ago to 72.4% in the first quarter primarily caused by the growth of the net benefit reserves for our ordinary life line of products most notably WAYS.
The expense ratio for the quarter was 17.1% down from 18.1% a year ago.
The expense ratio was impacted primarily by lower net commissions associated with the sales of the life products lines.
As a result of the lower expense ratios the pretax profit margin rose slightly from 21.3% to 21.5% in the quarter.
Turning to Aflac U.S.
total revenues rose 3.9% in the first quarter.
The benefit ratio to total premiums decreased over last year going from 55.1% a year ago to 54% in the first quarter.
This was generally in line with normal seasonality effects during the quarter.
The annualized persistency rate for the first three months was strong but stable at 74.7%.
No change from last years results.
The expense ratio for the quarter was up 32.5% up from 31.4% a year ago and is in line with normal first quarter activity.
The profit margin for the quarter was relatively unchanged at 19.5% compared to 19.6% a year ago.
Turning to some investment activity for the quarter starting with Aflac Japan approximately $1.8 billion of Aflac Japans new cash flow was invested in the corporate bond program for growth yield of 3.72% and an annualized hedge cost of 30 basis points.
The yield net of hedging cost was 3.42%.
This brings the total cash flow invested in the corporate bond program to approximately $8.8 billion with a total yield on the corporate bond program of 3.41% excluding hedge costs.
Approximately 30% of our new cash flow for the quarter was invested in JGBs with an average yield of 1.53%.
The new money yield for the quarter all in was 3.03% an increase of 30 basis points from the fourth quarter and up 100 basis points from a year ago.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of March was up 3.01% up 14 basis points from the fourth quarter and 17 basis points lower than a year ago.
In terms of U.S.
investments the new money yield for the quarter was 3.69% an increase of 17 basis points from the fourth quarter.
And the yield on portfolio at the end of March was 6.19% down 16 basis points from the fourth quarter and 42 basis points from a year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter.
Non-insurance interest expense was $48 million compared to 44 million a year ago.
On an operating basis the tax rate decreased from 34.7% a year ago to 34.4%.
The weaker yen decreased the operating earnings by $0.15 per diluted share for the quarter.
Excluding the yen's impact operating earnings per diluted share increased 5.7% for the quarter.
Operating ROEs reported for the quarter was 23.4%.
Excluding the impact of the yen operating ROE for the quarter was 26.1%.
As you heard Dan mention earlier we plan to repatriate more than 50 billion in 2013 in anticipation of our profit repatriation this year and considering the tough market conditions.
We have entered into derivative contracts to hedge the majority of our profit repatriation this year against the potential further weakening of the yen.
Also it's part of a continual refinement in our pricing methodology for our investment portfolio where we have a large number of privately issued securities we have elected move from an internal modeling method for assessment and valuation of these securities to an outside vendor.
As a result of this change in market conditions during the quarter shareholders equity declined by approximately $582 million from December 31.
Lastly let me comment on our earnings outlook for 2013 and our upcoming analyst meeting.
You heard us affirm our objective to increase operating EPS 4% to 7% this year excluding the impact of the yen.
If the yen averages 95 to 100 for the full year we would expect to report operating EPS of $5.99 to $6.37 per diluted share for the full year.
For the second quarter using the same currency assumptions we would expect operating earnings to be in the range of $1.41 to $1.56 per diluted share.
Now let me take a few moments to remind you that our analyst meeting will be held in New York on May 22.
We have given careful consideration and thought to our policy of providing earnings guidance at the analyst meeting.
As we look at our disclosure practices we have made a modification to the way we will discuss our earnings targets.
We concluded that it is in the best interests of our company and our shareholders to provide earnings guidance in the third quarter for the following year rather than projecting earnings a year and half out as we have previously done over the past several years.
We do not expect earnings growth to be materially different than what we see for 2013.
We simply feel it is better for us to take the additional five months to gather more data that influences our business before we put out an estimate.
This will also more closely align our financial modeling with our budgeting process.
So at the analyst meeting next month we won't comment on 2014 earnings expectations.
However we will discuss our operations in great detail and update you on opportunities to grow our business in 2014 and beyond.
Please dont forget to register if youd like to attend and now well get back to this quarter and wed be happy to take your questions.
To be fair to everybody please remember to limit yourselves to one initial question and only one follow-up that closely relates to your initial question.
We may begin.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I guess first question obviously with currency and the impact of the Yen moving all over the place.
Have you guys given consideration to hedging the earnings of the company and just the thought process around that? Chris this is Ken.
Let me start with that.
This has been an issue as long as weve been in Japan as Japan has grown to be a larger portion of our business that obviously has affected the sensitivity of earnings to currency changes.
But the one thing that I would remind you is that there is a distinct difference between foreign currency transactions and foreign currency translation.
We are certainly interested as Robin indicated in hedging economic events like capital being remitted from Japan to the United States.
But we dont think it makes sense to enter into an economic contract to hedge a financial reporting event.
Largely Japan is a yen denominated entity thats self-funded.
We collect premiums in Yen.
We pay benefits and expenses in Yen.
We back our Yen liabilities with Yen assets but to the degree that this years Yen rate differs from last years influences how those Yen get reported in dollars.
So again when we think about hedging were really focused on the economics of the business as opposed to financial reporting of the business.
And then one question maybe for Paul.
I guess the healthcare reform opportunity that you guys are pointing to a bit here doesnt take shape by the end of the year.
That 0% to 5% sales growth target where would that possibly shift to? Well there have obviously been certain things that have been delayed within the healthcare reform package.
There are questions about when the exchange implementation will occur whether it will be in 2014 or 2015.
Obviously being the proceeding fourth quarter open enrollment period to either of those dates that would have the largest effect.
That said Chris one of the things that weve been highly focused on is work within the broker market continuing to have our field force work with brokers continuing to succeed at the upper end of the broker market and growing that business.
One of the reasons that we knew that we would see sales be weaker in the first half of the year was not just the comparisons but it was also the continued work within that market where we expect to see more fourth quarter enrolments with or without healthcare reform.
So my overall assessment at this point is that even given the current environment and the information that we are knowledgeable about today that we still believe we will be within that 0% to 5% growth target for  2013.
That said issues and things continue to arise and we cannot predict what those are going  to be.
We watch HHS and other groups as well as whats happening at 50 different state governments on a daily and weekly basis about what theyre doing to implement healthcare reform.
Our sales force continues to be out focused on opening new groups and continuing to try to enroll in the marketplace.
But as Dan said with a somewhat jobless recovery there have been minor headwinds.
So all of those different factors play into everything that were trying to do while were simultaneously also implementing our new training system which in effect had a downturn in our recruiting in Q1 which was planned by us.
So in reality I think that we are headed towards 0% to 5% but there are a lot of things that were having to balance at this point.
Our next question does come from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Just one quick follow up on the hedging and then an earnings question.
Ken just to follow up on that question.
So I think youve hedged probably using three months currency type of hedge because you mentioned that June repatriation amount has been hedged.
Have you guys considered especially given Dan's comments about accelerating buybacks in 2014 has there been consideration to hedging expected repatriation amount for next year as well or beyond.
Yes we have.
Again we have entered into a series of contracts.
Our anticipated profit transfer for 2013 will really be towards the later part of July right around the time we released second quarter earnings.
We should be able to give you a better idea of what that number is in a few weeks when we conduct the analyst meeting.
But again we have undertaken a series of transactions to hedge a significant portion of this year's anticipated repatriation.
And we are looking at what is available to our disposal and what makes economic sense for us for '14.
And we are fine tuning those estimates and we would hope to give you a range of estimates at the analyst meeting about what repatriation in '14 would look like as well.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
And then Dan just a question about the decision to push out 2014 earnings guidance.
Should we be reading into that partly driven by the uncertainty with a very large decline in WAYS sales? I guess my main question is does the change in what you expect in WAYS do you think thats going to have a potential impact on what I think you have been saying previously leading up to this point.
You would expect a slow steady earnings growth recovery trajectory over the next several years.
Okay.
Kriss just poked me and he said he wants to answer but let me say one thing.
One of the reasons that I want to do it next year is because I dont think it's going to be significant.
You know I want to do something in a year when it's uneventful.
And I think what we have given you guidance for hasnt changed that dramatically.
Yeah Tom let me just follow up on that.
It's not that we are not going to give you guidance.
We are going to give you guidance relative to the key components of the model you guys independently develop to estimate our EPS.
That is we are going to give you long-term outlooks two to three year outlooks for Japan ratios Japan margins U.S.
ratios U.S.
margins.
And that will give you a good basis for populating your models for the operating results.
What we are trying to avoid is some of the noise.
The favorable or unfavorable tax settlements that might impact the change in EPS and things like that that we have a hard time seeing 18 to 20 months in advance.
So partly we have been talking about this for several years on the advice of SEC Counsel and what you do in terms of going on the line for long-term projections.
And so what we have decided is to focus more on giving you solid guidance what we can best predict and let you reach your own conclusions about some of the things that are not quite as predictable.
So I am going to show you what I told you last year in Feb relative to Japan operating ratios and reconcile them to our actual results and update them for another year or so.
And so you will get that kind of guidance but you are just not going to get the specific EPS prediction.
And Tom to be specific last year at this time we didnt know we were going to have those additional profits that would come in.
All of a sudden they came in we did better than what we thought.
In 2012 we have also given you guidance for '13 which ramped up the pressure on us in 2013.
So we like to be able to see it.
So that it was the positive things that happened last year that really drove this to want us to wait a little bit longer in doing it and then the SEC attorneys as well.
Our next question does come from Mark Finkelstein of Evercore Partners.
Your line is open.
I have got a couple of questions.
I guess just firstly can you just talk a little bit about the philosophy of repatriation going forward.
I mean obviously historically youve looked at FSA earnings maybe 80% of those.
Now youre in a situation where the Yen has weakened considerably that has capital impacts.
How should we think about the interplay of FSA earnings capital levels of similar ratios and repatriation? Mark this is Ken.
Let me start with this and I think Dan or Kriss and maybe even Tohru might want to jump in and add something.
But the basis thought process is this.
Clearly were in the business of making commitments to customers and foremost on our mind is that we can fulfill those obligations to our policy holders.
We have to protect their interests.
So in that regard their protection really is measured by Japans capital requirements in other words the solvency margin ratio is critical.
So we do a lot of work around the solvency margin ratio itself projecting the ratio stress testing the ratio and both relatively mild scenarios as well as very extreme scenarios to understand what risks there are to those ratios.
And as weve discussed in the past unlike the RBC ratio we also have interest rate risk to the SMR in Japan because the portion portfolio is mark-to-market for FSA reporting whereas RBC does not do that.
In both ratios SMR as well theres currency risk because we have a fairly significant un-hedged dollar position in the dollar portfolio that weve had for more than 20 years.
So really analysis is around making sure that our SMR is healthy enough to protect our customers and accommodate risks.
Once we have comfort with that we do look at our FSA based earnings as a guide and as you point out generally we have looked at a rule of thumb of pulling out 80% of FSA earnings and that would be FSA net income to include operating results as well as realized investment gains or losses.
And then well simply look at what the parent companys needs are liquidity needs and we will deliberate internally as well with our management in Japan and come up with a recommendation and agreement on what well repatriate.
And thats basically how weve done it for some time.
And again well give you more insight into the exact numbers in just a few weeks but thats really the process.
And then just on the Japan margin which was I think stronger than most people had expected how should we think about that going forward? How would you characterize what we saw in the quarter particularly in the expense side? Ill handle that.
Ill say our margins have been typically a bit higher in the first quarter than the latter part of year partly because on the Japan side and to the U.S side to some extent late in the year we have some benefit through ups and stuff like that on accounting adjustments that were committed to because of our [socks] process.
The first quarter is usually both a favorable morbidity quarter and a lack of extraneous adjustments.
So over the last several years our Japan margin has been higher in the first quarter than it has been throughout the year.
the other thing is we tend to be heavily oriented toward expenses being incurred in the latter part of the year and we usually start the year somewhat cautiously on expenses and as we gain confidence that were achieving the plans we loosen the reins on expenses to the extent we can.
So expense ratios tend to be a bit lower in the first quarter than the latter part of the year.
So Im just saying overall our margins tend to be a little bit higher in the first part of the year than the latter part of the year.
But part of that is management oriented.
Id say my take on this quarter was it was a favorable quarter meaning that it was in line with expectations.
As I mentioned in an earlier response Im going to give you a reconciliation of FAB.
The guidance we gave you on ratios as far as benefits and expenses and the like last May and tell you how that came out in 2012.
And then in the first quarter of 2013 I will say on Japan our benefit ratio was maybe on the high end of the forecast because we produced more ways relative to third sector health in the latter part of 2012 and 2013.
So the benefit ratios were a bit higher than my forecast but the expense margins were a bit lower and the profit margin came in right in the middle of the range.
So I consider that to be a favorable outcome.
Our next question does come from Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Your line is open.
First I just want to follow-up on the 2014 outlook.
I want to clarify Robin's comments.
It seems as if you said that pace of earnings growth in 2014 could be similar to that of 2013.
So I am assuming that there is 4% to 7% excluding the impact of the yen? This is Ken Jay.
We are not going to go that far.
But I know you see this in your model.
The vast majority of our revenues are known at January 1 of each year given the significant persistency of Japan's enforce block the stable and recently improving persistency of the U.S.
block the investment income combined with the predictability of our expenses and benefits.
It's not a catalyst type of story.
You see fairly consistent results emerge over long periods of time and I think thats really what Robin was referring to.
Again we dont want to get into a specific range but I think her comment really suggests that we dont expect a material change either upward or downward in the earning trajectory for next year.
We are just going to give ourselves a bit more time to fine tune those estimates for '14.
I see.
Okay.
And then on the Japan sales if WAYS sales starting 2Q down 40% to 60% I just have a little trouble getting to flat to up 5%...? Flat to up was only dealing with third sector.
And remember the down 40% to 60% is just for April but I think that trend may improve a little bit because always April is going to be your -- with that rate increase going in into effect.
But the flat to up 5% was only for third sector.
Okay.
And the down 46%...? Tohru you want to make a comment? Not really.
What Dan is right.
We are trying to achieve the [2%] to 5% to increase in the third sub-sector that (inaudible) and America combined.
And at this point we expect a significant decline in the sales of the WAYS and going forward not as much the degrees in April.
Because April is the month right after the rate increase so many people came to us trying to buy this product before the rate increase in March.
So as a reflection reaction to that we will see a very quiet April.
But later in the year that situation will be improved a little bit but still we expect a difficult year of income to the sales of the WAYS product.
Paul and I heard the presentation on the new advertising campaign we are holding towards the end of the third quarter and fourth quarter.
And I think you are going to see sales results more in line with '09 where we came on very strong in the fourth quarter.
And so I am very excited about what Aflac Japan shows both of us.
So thats very encouraging.
I want to further add that just because the sale of WAYS is off doesnt necessarily translate into profits.
Actually it could result in some profit improvement.
I have talked to a little bit on the last couple of calls about the impact of selling a higher volume of business at a lower margin the converse is true too.
If you sell a lower volume half margin business it tends to offset and then youve got the impact of higher level non-deferrable costs both on U.S GAAP basis as well as on a regulatory basis and that improves our regulatory financial results profit wise.
So lower volumes of WAYS is not necessarily negative for profit expectations.
Profit repatriation.
Right.
Our next question does come from Jeff Schuman of KBW.
Your line is open.
Just wanted to come back to the issue of I guess capital builds repatriation and if you could give a little bit of perspective from a different angle.
Granted you have to be sensitive to SMR and the FSA earnings but so I think to look at the statutory capital your statutory operating earnings were I think $2.9 billion in 2011 43.3 billion in 2012 and then I have to assume in 2013 given that the business is bigger and you may have less capital strain on some new business that that number just continues to go up.
I think you need to probably retain about $0.5 billion a year to fund growth.
It just seems like youre destined to have this enormous statutory capital build.
Im wondering if thats inevitable and you continue to be governed by the FSA constraints in the next few years or how we think about what appears to be the destiny for enormous statutory capital build.
Jeff its Ken again.
Its long been the case that the real source of our free cash flow is profit repatriation from Japan.
And as we discussed last year at the Analyst meeting the U.S has been saddled from a cash standpoint with additional tax payments to the U.S treasury because of the significant derisking that occurred in the Japanese portfolio which simply shifts the U.S export and as you know Aflac U.S as well.
The U.S is responsible for all of the interest expense on the debt at the parent company level.
So when youre thinking about -- at least until we see more normalcy and I think were getting to that point because the losses have really been diminished recently to the extent that we dont have realized investment losses in Japan you dont see that tax burden hurting the U.S segment as much.
So were starting to see more normalcy there.
But it is fair that the constraint for cash flow largely as the SMR in Japans ability to repatriate capital.
Lets say the case I think during the periods of extraordinary growth that youve just had but at some point dont all those accounting systems converge and does that different ? They do but it takes time.
If you close the block it would happen more quickly.
I had that problem when I first became CEO.
We had that issue.
People -- we couldnt get money out of Japan they thought but it was because of the conservatism and the way they viewed it on an SMR basis but once it hit the maximum it then took off.
And the normalcy here is coming back and I think over the next few years youre going to see it go back.
Assuming we dont have any more major losses and we dont foresee them in the future although we continue to be cautiously optimistic.
Our next question does come from Eric Bass of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Just hoping can you provide an update on expected margins on new sales by different products following the repricing given where youre investing new money today? It jumps the gun a little bit on our FAB presentation but I anticipated that someone would ask the question about the margin on the repriced business.
For the business were currently selling after the April 2 effective date on the repricing and with the discounted advance premium rate at 1% on business written with that.
We anticipate that with a lifetime of the product net investment yield rate of 2% our profit margin as a percent of premium would be in the 15% to 20% range.
Our ROE would be about 16%.
If you say okay the net investment yield is going to be 2.5 life of the product kind of thing you get up into the mid-20s.
The range I am going to show you is probably close from 22 to 30 and ROE close to 22.
So I will let you reach some conclusions about where the appropriate number for net investment yield over the life of the product is going to be.
But those were the ranges I am going to show at the FAB meeting in May.
Okay.
Thanks thats helpful.
And then just maybe one follow up on the new money yield.
You did see it increase in Japan pretty dramatically from kind of the fourth quarter to the first.
I am just wondering since you are investing sort of the same mix between JGBs in U.S.
corporate kind of what it was on the U.S.
corporate side that allowed you to get higher new money yields and if you changed anything either in the duration of securities you are buying or the credit level? Hi it's Eric Kirsch.
Nothing really has changed about the guidelines of the program.
It's a longer duration corporate bond portfolio about 10 to 12 years typically we are about 11 years on average.
I think if you look at the fourth quarter to the first quarter within the U.S.
corporate bond markets by and large yields have come down -- or yields had gone up during the first quarter excuse me though there was some spread compression.
But there was this [peakness] to the credit curve particularly in the fourth quarter.
So we did pick up some additional spread because we are focused on the longer end but by and large the yields we have invested in have been kind of in the area that we expected plus or minus 10 or so basis points.
So we see a little bit of pickup in the first quarter just from the shape of the credit curve in general.
Our next question does come from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Before I ask my own questions I do want to follow up on one thing.
Ken at the beginning when Tom asked his question I was unclear.
Are you looking at hedging 2014 profit repatriation very early in the year? We are looking at our options to do so right now.
Okay.
Then if I may Kriss looking at margins could you give us a sense of maybe what the margin was on the first sector product that was sold in the first quarter given that there was -- you got a higher rate through corporate debt program but you didnt have the rate increases in yet? Thats correct.
It would probably be more in that 15% to 20% zone than in the higher numbers I quoted.
But keep in mind that for the WAYS business with the discounted advanced premium we did still have the 50 basis point rise in effect for that business up through the April 1 switch date.
So the initiatives we took to improve profitability on new business that we took during 2012 carried over into the first quarter of 2013.
And I think its pretty conservative life of the block assumptions for net investment yield rates.
You would get at least 15% to 20% on the first sector business you wrote.
Good point about that.
And then for Paul two things here.
Paul you talked about kind of alternative distribution maybe participate in private exchanges what have you.
I didnt hear anything about going over the internet maybe going over portals like e-health things like that that maybe connecting to the exchanges.
And I am also interested you have through your sales force probably an unparalleled look into the health spending plans of small employers.
Are you hearing anything from your sales force to suggest that significant amounts of employers will be dumping their major medical plans and maybe in association with that dumping their supplemental health plans as well? (Inaudible) There is a whole bunch in there.
So let me get it started.
First of all we view the exchanges as an opportunity not to be necessarily an online enrolment tool where were selling directly over the internet but instead we view it as a direct tool to enhance our sales force to go to market and allow them to further their strength in the small business market.
Were building our own private exchange where well be partnering with certain companies which we believe is going to allow our sales force to really strengthen their hold on the accounts that they have as well as continue to grow their accounts in the small business market.
So I believe the exchange is a win for our sales team as opposed to being an online sale.
In terms of participating in online only enrolments there are aspects we may test but today there continues to be large adverse selection around that type of sale as well as with increased competition in that marketplace we know that theres going to be a drive towards limited profitability and we want to do everything we can to maintain the margins on our profits and by selling through our own private exchange we believe we maximize the ability to sell with higher margins and maintain those ratios and at the same time obviously help our sales force.
On the latter half of your question around healthcare cost increases what I would say to you  Paul it wasnt healthcare cost increases.
It was the idea that employers may take advantage of the existence of the exchanges to basically tell employees look instead of me providing this heres some money you go get it.
I understand.
Im sorry about that.
There is a technology that is going to allow us within our exchange called iFrame.
Whether the employer chooses to or not to push their employees out to the exchange well be able to actually enroll at the worksite whether they do that or not.
So we can actually pull up the state or federal exchange through our enrolment technology through this technology called iFrame.
Therefore we believe we can persuade the business to allow even if they want to go push their people out in order to qualify for the subsidy we can help them do that.
At the same time we believe that the implementation of subsidies is going to go at a very slow manner.
We believe that its going to happen on a state by state basis depending upon their current fiscal environment and we believe that theres going to be a very inconsistent rollout of exchanges.
Thats not a political view.
Its a straight financial view of whats going to happen.
And so were monitoring this with the knowledge that it is going to be a highly complex environment.
Whats happening in California versus Iowa versus Alabama may be drastically different and therefore well have an impact on how those local businesses decide what percentage of their people to push out to the market.
We do know that the only place in the United States where we have a test market about that is the State of Massachusetts.
Today only 6% of businesses actually push their employees out to the open exchange as opposed to McKenzie whos gone out and said it could be as much as 40%.
We believe its going to be on the lower end.
In America there continues to be a war on talent where we know that small businesses more than ever value their employees and not only recruiting them but retaining them.
And in order to retain them we believe that health benefits is something theyre going to continue to want to offer.
So to the extent that we can help partner with Americas small businesses to both leverage the exchange but also to bring Aflac products and other companies products to the table we believe we can continue to do extremely well.
Hopefully well hear about this iFrame next month.
Your next question does come from (inaudible) of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Can we talk a little bit about the individual independent agencies in Japan? It seems like the number of those agencies is coming down and your products at least going up.
I was curious has productivity increased simply due to weeding of the underperformers or is there more going on there? Ill take that question.
The decline in the recruiting numbers of the individual agencies and independent agencies I would say is in accordance with our plan.
As I told you in the past conference call we have been shifting focus from recruiting large number of independent out of individual agents towards putting more resources to the training of the existing recruited agents.
Thats part of it.
And also particularly in the three large metropolitan areas namely Tokyo Osaka and Nagoya we have created a network of the Aflac consultants the group of visiting sales force employed by Aflac.
So instead of hiring large number of individuals in that area we are hiring a selected number of Aflac consultants.
More professionally trained people so that they can make sales more efficiently than the average new recruited individual.
So yes the number of recruits have been decreased substantially.
But again this is I would say in line with what we have planned.
Okay.
And then on the investment side.
As you are exploring alternatives of the JGBs could you maybe walk us through some of the alternatives you are thinking about or maybe the frame work that you are using in order to look at these alternatives? Sure I would be happy to.
First I think it's important to put it in perspective.
The JGB allocation for us is 25% to 30% or so of our new money.
And while certainly on April 4<sup>th</sup> after the new BOJ policy came out yields fell precipitously.
They have also come back up pretty strongly as well.
So they are certainly lower than they were at the beginning of the year.
But even if we followed of our JGB allocation for the rest of the year if you did the math relative to our new money yield objectives it was impacted by about 5 basis points.
So it's not a huge differential.
Nevertheless we do consider do we want to lockup 20 year or 30 year money at these low yields given they are at historic lows.
And our viewpoint is that there is a good chance there will be success in Japan.
So sometime in the future whether it's a year out or two interest rates will eventually rise.
So keep that framework in mind.
So our objective is within that 25% or so is there some alternatives that we could be comfortable with.
We will outperform those yields but not necessarily lock us up for 20 or 30 years.
So as an example we could take a look at a short term corporate bond program hedged back to yen where we could take advantage of good quality corporate bonds in the U.S.
shorter durations and maturities or probably pick up 40 to 50 basis points over those JGB yields.
And because the duration of those corporate would be shorter they will be subject to less price sensitivity than say our long corporate bonds.
So over a year or two from now JGB yield should go up and we think we need to adjust the asset allocation at that time we will have some flexibility as well.
So we havent reached any conclusions.
We think it's critical we follow what's happening in the monetary and fiscal side in Japan and always reflect on that.
But it's not going to be a huge difference ultimately to our yields for this year when you do the math and settle that down.
So everything will be brought up in perspective.
Thank you very much.
We have reached the top of the hour.
And if you have any further questions please give us a call.
Tom and myself will be in the office and if not please make sure that you sign of for our FAB meeting and we look forward to seeing you there.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Today's conference has ended.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Aflacs Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on a listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised that todays conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Maam you may begin.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac; Ken Janke President of Aflac U.S Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO of Aflac Incorporated; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us today from Japan are Tohru Tonoike President and Chief Operating Officer of Aflac Japan; and Charles Lake Chairman of Aflac Japan.
Now before we start let me remind you that some statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan wholl begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and our operations in Japan and the United States.
Ill then follow up with a few financial highlights for the quarter and then we will take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
I'm very pleased that we met and in many cases exceeded our financial target for the second quarter.
Let me began with an update on Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
Pre-tax earnings in yen were up 20.1% for the quarter primarily reflecting lower benefited expense ratios.
Additionally revenues continue to be strong growing by 10%.
Given these results we expect expense ratio to increase in the second half of the year when we step up our spending.
With the new medical product launch in August well be increasing advertising and promotional expenditures.
Additionally we anticipate increasing spending on projects that improve our business over the long run.
Consistent with our expectation Japans new annualized premium sales in the second quarter were down 43.1% to 30.3 billion yen with waste production down sharply in the quarter.
We anticipated this decline for a couple of reasons.
First you recall that at the beginning of the quarter premium rates for the first sector products including waste increased to reflect lower assumed interest rates.
Second improved investment returns prompted many of the customers at banks to [turn from wave] type insurance products to investment trust.
As weve said we expect the sales of the first sector products primarily wave will continue to be down substantially for the reminder of the year.
However I want to remind you that for this year our sales target is based on Aflac Japans third sector products which include cancer and medical insurance.
Third sector sales were down 4.9 for the quarter which was in line with our expectations and an improvement over the first quarter.
Remaining the leading provider of third sector products is important to us and is the foundation of our product portfolio.
We believe consumers will respond favorably to the new medical product well be introducing in mid-August.
We expect this product will appeal especially to consumers in their twenties to forties an area which were currently underpenetrated.
I believe our 2013 objective of flat to up 5% increase in third sector sales is reasonable and achievable.
As we look ahead with regard to cancer insurance sales I am pleased with new alliance agreement Aflac Japan signed Japan Post group last week.
The new agreement will further expand our partnership with Japan Post which was initially established in 2008 enabling each economy to maximize synergies in the insurance business.
Japan Post has a nationwide distribution network that has earned trust of Japanese consumers and Aflac Japan is the industry leader in cancer insurance.
Through this alliance Japan and Post intends to expand the number of post offices that offer Aflacs cancer products gradually increasing from a 1000 post office outlets to 20 000.
Also subject to regulatory approval Aflac Post insurance also known as Kampo will enter into an agency contract with Aflac Japan to begin distributing Aflac Japans cancer insurance products at all the Kampos seventy nine directly managed sale offices.
A firm consultation with Japan Post group Aflac Japan will also consider developing an exclusive cancer product for both Japan Post and Kampo.
This new alliance agreement enhances our distribution and allows us to reach new consumers with the cancer insurance products.
I believe Japan Post can and will become a meaningful contributor to our sales over the next several years.
Let me remind you that cancer is the leading cause of death in Japan with an ageing population the average instant rate of cancer will only increase in the future and cancer is the most expensive illness to treat.
We believe our products can be a part of the solution for people battling cancer and the related out of pocket expenses and this at last will help us reach more people.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operation.
Pre-tax earnings were up 9.9% reflecting an improved benefit ratio.
Keep in mind we will increase spending in the second half of the year especially with the initiatives related to the preparation of the implementation of the affordable care act.
Premium income rose 3.5% with policy persistence to remaining strong.
Aflac US new sales increased 1.4% for the quarter and for the first half of the year they were down 1.9.
As youve heard say many times before we dont want anything to give between us and the customers.
Our job is to be multi passage in our distribution to make sure we have a presence where consumers want to purchase our products.
There are different distribution possibilities we continue to work on including creating profit exchange that will help employers our field force and the brokerage community.
While were busy laying the ground work for the future were still working hard to achieve our annual sales target.
Having covered operations now let me turn to investments.
Im very pleased that for the first six months our net investment income is ahead of plan.
Our new money yield for the first half of the year in Japan was 3.02% which is significantly higher than our new money yield of 2% in the first half of 2012.
Currently were pursuing several strategies to accommodate the impact of the changing rate environment on the SMR which we mentioned in our press release last night.
Additionally we are re-weighting the current asset allocation for new money investments in Japan.
Youll recall at the analyst meeting we discussed that our plan was to designate two-thirds of our new money to U.S.
corporate bonds and one-third to JGBs.
Our investment team is revisiting our asset allocation for new money investments and expressed to allocate the majority of the third quarter cash flows to JGBs and underweight in the allocation of the U.S.
corporate bond hedge.
Just as the markets are fluid we remain agile to respond properly appropriately to the changing investment landscape.
We will continue to consider diversification and liquidity as we approach various investment options.
We also expect to come in close to our budget for the new money yield for the year.
Turning to Aflac Incorporated our consolidated financial performance was very strong for the quarter excluding the impact of foreign currency operating earnings per diluted share rose 14.3% for the quarter and 9.9% for the first six months of the year.
While this puts us significantly ahead of the annual operating earnings per share objective the comparison for the operating earnings per share in the third quarter will be difficult to the tax benefit of $0.10 per diluted share recognized last year in the third quarter.
I also want to remind you of what I said earlier we will increase spending in the second half of the year in both Japan and the United States.
As such our target remains to increase operating earnings per share in the range of 4% to 7% excluding the impact of the yen.
Within that range though we anticipate operating earnings to increase approximately 5% for the full year before the impact of foreign currency.
As weve communicated given our capital structure our ability to repurchase shares is largely tied to profit repatriation.
Just last week we repatriated 76.8 billion yen.
Youll recall that we entered into a hedging transaction with the vast majority of our anticipated repatriation at weighted-average exchange rate of 96.04 yens to the dollar.
In dollar terms this profit repatriation was $795 million.
As we've said for many years when it comes to deploying excess capital we still believe that growing the cash dividend and repurchasing our shares are the most attractive means and those avenues we will continue to pursue.
Our objective remains to grow the dividend at the rate that is in line with our operating earnings per share growth before the impact of the yen.
Aflac repurchased approximately $129 million or 2.3 million shares of its common stock in the second quarter.
For the first half of the year the company purchased $279 million or 5.3 million of its shares.
We have a lot of flexibility at the parent company in terms of liquidity and its still our intention to repurchase $600 million of our shares for the full year.
Additionally our current plan remains to increase our share repurchase next year by repurchasing $600 million to $900 million of our shares.
Generally generating an industry leading return on equity excluding the yen impact is also important.
On an operating basis our second quarter annualized ROE was 22.1%.
Keep in mind Aflacs ROE is sensitive to current fluctuations because we are largely hedged our equity in dollars but not all of our earning.
That means that when the yen weakens our ROE declines.
As the yen remained unchanged since the end of March operating ROE would have been 26.4% in the second quarter.
Based on our year-to-date returns I expect to meet or exceed our ROE target of 20% to 25% excluding the impact of foreign currency for the full year.
Overall I'm pleased with Aflac's position in Japan and the United States the two largest insurance markets in the world.
First and foremost we are focused on protecting our policyholders and providing value to our investors.
We are fortunate that we have the privilege of providing financial protection for more than 50 million people worldwide in the process.
Now Ill turn it back -- the program back over to Robin.
Robin?   Thank you Dan.
Let me get through some brief numbers for the quarter starting Aflac Japan.
Beginning with the currency impact during the quarter the yen weakened against the dollar 18.8%.
For the first six months of the year the yen weakened against the dollar 16.4%.
In terms of topline growth in yen terms revenues as reported were up 10% for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of currency revenues were up in the quarter 8.6%.
The annualized persistency rate excluding annuities in the quarter showed strong improvement at 95.1% compared to 94.7% last year.
Net investment income as reported increased 16.6% for the quarter.
If you exclude the benefit of the weaker yen in the quarter on Aflac Japans dollar-denominated investment income our net investment income rose 6.8%.
In terms of the quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio as total revenues declined over last year going from 62.0% a year ago to 61.5% in the second quarter.
Excluding the impacts of the weaker yen the benefit ratio for the quarter was 62.3%.
The expense ratios for the quarter were 17% down from 18.4% a year ago.
As a result of the lower expense ratio pre-tax earnings increased 20.1% in the quarter.
Excluding the impacts of the yen pre-tax earnings in the quarter increased 13.5%.
Now let me turn to a few highlights for Aflac U.S.
The benefit ratio to total revenue decreased over last year going from 51.1% to 49.1% in the second quarter.
This was primarily the results of a favorable industry-wide healthcare usage trend during the quarter.
The annualized persistency rate for the first six months remained strong at 76.3%.
The expense ratio for the quarter was 34.
-- 31.4% up from 30.6% a year ago.
However it was slow compared with expectations for additional spending later in the year.
The profit margin for the quarter increased to 19.5% compared to 18.3% a year ago.
Turning to investment activity for the quarter starting with Aflac Japan for the quarter approximately $3 billion of Aflac Japans new cash flow was invested in our hedged U.S.
corporate bond program for gross yield of 3.51% at an annualized hedge cost of 22 basis points.
The yield net of hedging costs were 3.29%.
This brings the year to date total cash flow invested in the U.S.
corporate bond program to approximately $4.9 billion with a total yield on the corporate bond portfolio of 3.59% excluding hedged costs.
Since the inception of the program the total cash flow invested in the U.S.
corporate bond program is approximately $11.8 billion which is with a total yield of 3.44% excluding hedged costs.
This is in line with our annual allocation expectation for this program.
Approximately 27% of new cash flow was invested in JGBs in the second quarter with an average yield of 1.68%.
In terms of U.S.
investments the new money yield for the quarter was 3.70 an increase of one basis point from the first quarter.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of June was 6.11% down eight basis points from the first quarter and 43 basis points from a year ago.
Turning to some other items in the quarter non-insurance expanse in the second quarter was $48 million compared to $45m a year ago.
At the end of the quarter cash and cash equivalents at the parent company level were $1.3 billion.
On an operating basis the tax rate decreased from 34.4%.
Operating ROE as reported for the quarter was 22.1% and excluding the impact of the yen operating ROE for the quarter was 26.3%.
During the quarter we also executed on a securities lending transaction of $1.2 billion.
This was a short-term transaction that will mature in the third quarter.
One of the strategies that we are pursuing to accommodate the impact of the changing rate environment on our SMR is policy reserve matching of PRM.
The PRM investment strategy is gauge up accounting treatment that considers the financial characteristics of insurance company and is widely used in Japan by other companies.
The PRM also promotes asset and liability management.
This method provides better liquidity and is not subject to the mark-to-market accounting treatment of the available for sale.
Lastly let me comment on our earnings outlook for the remainder of 2013.
You heard us affirm our annual objectives to increase operating EPS of 47% with the expectation of a 5% excluding the impact of the yen.
If the yen averages 95 to 105 for the full year we would expect to report operating earnings of $5.83 to $6.37 per diluted share for the full year.
For the third quarter using that same currency assumption we would expect operating earnings to be in a range of $1.41 to a $1.51 per diluted share.
Now we would be happy to take your questions.
Let me remind you that to be fair to everyone please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up only that relates to that initial question.
Were ready to begin now.
(Operator Instructions) First question Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Good morning everybody.
I wanted to touch a little bit more on the Japan Post deal.
And first of all understand if the 0.5% guidance refer to third-party fair growth in sales.
Is that -- did that at all impacted by that deal? No.
That does not include anything with Japan Post.
Okay.
But Charles Lake and Tohru on the line and the three of us were at the news conference on Friday.
So let me see if they want to add any to that.
This is Tohru Tonoike.
And that is correct.
Our original expectation of 0.25% growth for the south sector does not include anything from the Japan Post.
And at the same time I have to remind you that we start our operations under the new agreement beginning October 1st this year.
But we will start by adding not all of the 2 000 --20 000 offices but just only a part of it because we want to make sure that we will -- half the Japan Post offices start selling our product.
Also both Japan portion we are comfortable that we have provided sufficient training to the employees regarding the features of our product and the new market conduct rules.
So we will begin that operation rather smaller than increase over time.
Let me make a couple of comments by Japan Post.
Number one is it is the largest insurance company in the world with over a trillion dollars in assets.
It also has -- is the largest company in terms of employees and remember that the 79 agencies at the insurance company of Japan Post is never sold for us.
And these agencies would be equivalent to mega agencies in the United States.
So as I said on CNBC this morning this is a game changer for us in terms of what can take place in the future.
Charles you were very instrumental in this any comments from you?  I think you outlined everything but I think the important also is to talk about the fact that this is a corporate group Japan Post group so just Aflac deal was not only with Japan Post the network in Japan Post insurance but Japan post group as a whole.
Dan you signed that document with the CEO of the Japan Post group so that makes the agreement even stronger in my view.
Does it answer your question?  Our next question comes from (inaudible) from JPMC.
Hi Good morning.
Just a question on U.S.
sales Dan you mentioned you are still comfortable that sales will pick up in the second half of the year.
I would have assumed that with the healthcare reform coming on the smaller employers would be more pre-occupied with that and wouldnt really want to put or enhance their offering and put on new products on the self.
So I just was wondering what gives you the comfort that sales in the U.S.
wont actually deteriorate in the second half which has given all this uncertainty that health care reform is going to create.
Well as I said I still -- because right now were within 1% I think down I think its a reasonable assessment that we can achieve it.
I do not have the comfort level with the U.S.
as I do with Japan in terms of achieving the objectives.
I am very comfortable even though Japan looks like its coming further from behind because of this new product that they are getting this month I feel very good and Paul could relate more to that because he has been more involved.
But with the U.S.
Jimmy I am concerned that because of the delays and the other things it can have an impact.
But weve got some things that we are working on like for example we have a toll free number that will go online affected the middle of August to where our agents can call in and ask questions.
I think some of our agents are a little bit reluctant to go out and talk about healthcare reform with the fear that they wont know all the answers but will have this safety net of this watch of this toll free number I can call that will allow them to feel more comfortable calling on the employers new and old old for re-enrollment new for -- to do that that may help us in the second half.
So I am counting on that has been something that will help us.
But your concern is something we too worry a little bit about.
And then just -- you had mentioned that youve already obviously you have started to edge capital repay creation and you (inaudible) amount for 2013 but what are your thoughts on capital [repay] creation for 2014 and whether you want to hedge that for currency most? Jimmy this is Ken let me comment on that.
As Id mentioned at the Analyst meeting in May we had begun to hedge a portion of our expected 2014 [repay] creation.
You may recall that I talked about the possibility of about 96 to 97 billion Yen in repay creation next year.
As of today and well probably hold with this for the time being weve hedged 47 billion Yen and as far as what we ultimately pull out the same commentary that we would have said a year ago applies to now.
Maybe we have to see how the macro market macro environment changes between now and next June.
And what the impact might on realized or unrealized gains in making the financial determination about how much we fall out but thats where we stand today.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Christopher Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
I guess Im trying to better understand the investment strategy in kind of the capital interplay here.
I mean obviously the bond program was successful you have up to 150 200 basis point pick up relative to JGBs which I think you felt good about given the access liquidity that gave in the diversification.
But now with the move up in rates shifting back to that JGB strategy so just some additional commentary there? And then thoughts on kind of the BMR type strategy versus available for sale at health to maturity.
I think others have looked at this but what are some restrictions that I think potentially things need to be sold and then re-bought which you might not want to do kind of given the move up in rates.
So just any thoughts there on the interplay? Thanks.
Sure.
Hey Chris.
This is Eric.
Ill grab that one and then kind of Kriss might jump in on the SMR side.
But to take a step back on the investment strategy just to remind everybody.
We did a very thorough strategic asset allocation project back in 2012 which took into account liabilities assets our surplus and basically created our guide post in terms of an optimal portfolio.
But economically over the long-term would help us grow the surplus with minimal volatility.
But in FAS as you know there is a guide post that the long-term range plan important in our investment decision is what we call tactical asset allocation.
So just because we have the guide post we have to sit down as investors in that group and think about the macro environment of the world credit fundamentals and whether or not any particular day month quarter keep into that exact guide post make sense or making some adjustments.
And I think weve already said part of the build out of our investment function is to be more flexible so that were not buying whole but rather buying manage and be able to adapt the different market environments.
I think its no surprise to anybody on the phone that we have just gone through in the second quarter one of the highest rates of volatility relative to rates that we have seen since 2008.
So if you go back to the financial crisis and you look at treasury volatility options youll see the greatest amount of volatility when the Fed came in and plunged trillions of dollars into the system and at that time you saw rates decline was their intent.
Were seeing the unwinding of that as we saw the Federal Reserve coming to the market in May or so and announced the potential for cap bringing the QE3 programs and that cause from peak to trough the 10-year treasury to go from $170 to $270.
So in our view from a tactical standpoint were in a volatile interest rate environment and I should say Japan as well because of their Central Bank policies we saw deals on April 5th plum it and then come back up and they think if Japan is successful therell be some pressure on their rates too.
So with that in mind and with the growth of the corporate program which is grown on the trajectory we expected in fact its a little ahead of our projection with the fact that from the standpoint as Dan mentioned our investments in sales net investment income were actually running ahead of budget.
We made the tactical decision to sit on the sidelines for now re-weight that allocation more heavier towards JGBs for the third quarter and lets see what happens with the Federal Reserve in September.
As you know today economic numbers on GDP were strong and treasury is backing up.
Tomorrow we may get some weak economic numbers.
So our standpoint is rather stand on the sideline to the volatility because were performing in all -- on all of our metrics and even if we stayed at this new allocation we still expect the range of the percentage allocations of the corporate program by the end of the year to be very close to our expect ranges because we are a little ahead in terms of the funding of that.
So thats all the background on the decision around the asset allocation.
Now let me turn to some of your questions on PRM AFS HTM and SMR.
So historically here at Aflac as you know weve used HTM health to maturity both for big portion of our JGBs and historically our private placements a large percentage went in HTM.
On the outlook that as you know we have low liquidity needs.
We dont have a lot of liquidity needs and we really cant afford to hold assets for a long time.
Nevertheless we did learn as we went through the financial crisis particularly with non-JGBs HTM is very difficult because if you do need to make credit adjustments the accountants really put colors on you in terms of your ability to get it out of HTM and make an adjustment.
So the corporate program really was designed to be an AFS so we can buy and manage it not have that on us going forward.
Where SMR is today in the large rate rise that we saw U.S.
rates and rates rising in Japan in terms of the impact to SMR we fully anticipated with that kind of rate rise we would say our SMR dropped to where it is today but as Dan mentioned and Kriss as well its within the range we expected 5% to 600%.
Nevertheless our sensitive now to kind of rates continue to go up as higher from our standpoint and the sensitivity to our available for sale portfolio feeds into the SMR calculations going forward.
So in that respect we are pursuing a couple of hedging strategies if I could call it that so that if ratio continue to raise whether in Japan or the US we have some built in protections to the portfolio which will directly impact and benefit the SMR so specifically Robin has talked about PRM Policy Reserved Matching.
Now PRM for most of our Japan peers is the more commonly used method as opposed to HTM.
PRM is favorable in that.
Unlike HTM we do get the favorable atomic treatment that we have in asset JGBs in PRM we dont have to mark them to market for purposes of SMR.
However were allowed to trade those JGBs for asset liability management purposes.
Thats a valuable tool task.
Our liability can change as rates go up and down so that gives us more flexibility than HTM.
So to mitigate interest rate risk to the end market it is our plan to move a number of JGBs from the existing AFS into PRM and that will help mitigate interest risk.
That will happen over the next few months as we certainly want to be cognizant in our transaction costs.
With respect to US rates we are exploring interest rate hedging strategies we cant really put US corporate assets and PRM thats not an appropriate place where PRM was built and the rules are around JGBs.
So were looking at more interest rate in hedging strategies and its all of you collected tab I talked about currency hedging strategies which were now moving into our pilot program and colors and different operations that stay in concept as what were applying to interest rates.
So were working carefully with our management and team in Japan our management here in the U.S.
to collaborate the sensitive of SMR if you will the changes in these different risk factors yen rates and US rates primarily to come up with the right percentages of these hedging techniques.
Once (inaudible) PRM hedging strategies for US will be more economic if you will that give us the flexibility of rates raised will have protection against declining values in the AFS security.
So let me stop there and see if anybody wants to add anything or any other questions on that.
This is Ken.
I think thats a pretty thorough answer.
The one thing Id point out is not only are the dollar -- corporate dollar assets not an appropriate investment for PRM.
Its been our policy to historically to not put them in HTM as well.
Our dollar assets are typically kept in AFS and thats one of the reasons that the unusual spike in rates had the impact it did on SMR because we had more exposure to AFS.
Understood very helpful and then just one follow up question here on the August product.
I guess can you comment a little bit about maybe pricing changes there? Some of the presses report that I guess 30% declines in rates for maybe a younger consumer which I think is maybe a bit more than we would have thought but consistent Dan comment said the FAB meeting that maybe the [younger age probably] used to pay a little less and the older group needs to pay a little more.
So just some pricing comments around the different age cohort would be helpful thanks? Tohru? Yes I think our -- thats his [question] new product is focused on the relatively young aged customers.
So we have chosen the characteristics which we think that would be -- would appeal to that age group.
So there are some adjustments in the pricing that they are based on the (inaudible) stuff.
Overall profitability are pretty much the same as before so we do not expect any say sub essential trends in the -- on the overall profitability.
Now this was Kriss a second Tohrus comments on that.
I think what weve found is that relative to competition we think weve perhaps overcharged the lower premium rate classifications and undercharged the higher premium rate classifications for expenses.
You can spread expenses any number of ways but we found that we tend to be more competitive at the higher premium rates and less competitive at lower premium rates.
We try to move toward a better balance between the higher and lower premium rate relative to our competition.
So the lower rates went down some and higher rates went up some in the aggregate based on the distribution we expect to sell we all have about same profitability on the new product as you know.
Thanks so much.
Thank you.
Next question John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Just in real quick numbers question so the 76.8 billion yen repatriation this month that were just shy of the $800 million that seems like -- if I recall thats a bit above where you were expecting that repatriation to come in.
Can you just help us understand what drove the upside and then can you just level set where is parent company cash including the repatriation is that $2.1 billion? John this is Dan.
First off at the analyst meeting we said then that we estimated repatriation would be 70 billion to 75 billion yen and Okay.
and that compensated 80% of estimated FSA earnings.
So FSA earnings came on little bit better.
I cant point to any specific reason why but we retained the 80% remittance.
Thats what drove it up to 76.8 billion.
Okay.
In the cash of the holding company then I just add the $800 million to the 1.3 at the end of the quarter and were there? Well.
Its not all at the parent at this point.
So right now if you look at on an operating basis we had $576 million at the parent company at the end of June.
Now that excludes the net proceeds from the debt issuance we had because thats basically pledged for debt servicing in future periods.
The repatriation that we brought back $795 million right now is warehouse at Aflac and then on the quarterly basis as we dividend up for the parent companys needs it will be moved up to the parent company to support things like share repurchases and dividends.
So its not all there right now.
Got it.
Thats helpful.
Then I guess the second is if I just take a setback and think about this quarter and your delivering operationally I think on every single metric or exceeding on every single metric maybe there is a little bit touch weakness on sales but seems like youve got confidence in the back half.
So your stock is down and I think thats all about the system.
I mean can you just help us understand I know you just went through the strategy there is PRM maybe a few other things youre considering on the U.S.
sided that hedge against rate.
How much urgency is there inside the company to get this done and help your investors be very confident that SMR is going to be stable at or near the upper end of your targeted range from here? 10-year treasury yields are up eight basis points today just top of the GDP et cetera.
So thats moving quickly I just wonder how quickly Aflac is moving? This is Kriss.
Ill take a stand at that.
Its a little ironic to me John as I was reflecting on last quarters conference call where youll all given me greek the SMR was too high and we needed capital.
How Japan this quarter as Eric summarized we have the significant spike in interest rates so that drove the value of AFS assets down from the level it was at March 31.
But I do want to point out that the fair value of the yen are nominated AFS assets are still right at par.
We had a significant unrealized gain at the end of the first quarter that basically went away in the second quarter and I try to tell the investment community on the first quarter call that we dont tend to count on unrealized gains as a major source of capital.
We know there are variably fluctuate.
They go up and down they went down this quarter.
So instead of being way over the 500 to 600 target which we were at the end of the first quarter were down at the high-end of the 500 to 600 target.
All that being said we do feel some sense of urgency to protect our SMR levels from further deterioration associated with marking AFS assets to market.
I will say getting on a soap box a little bit this is more of an accounting issued to me than a capital adequacy issue.
If you look at our RBC ratio little over 700% at June 30<sup>th</sup>.
Now I know you all are going to give me great through how can you lift RBC grow over 700% and it was SMR they on it.
If RBC is up and the answer is it's all related to accounting for those AFS classified assets and marketing one group to market for FSA purposes and carrying the same group that amortized costs for U.S.
statutory purposes.
So all that being said we got to pay attention as tomorrow were doing it in addition to the accounting issues not to let accounting grab economics but Ive got to be mindful that accounting is important.
We are -- weve got multiple levers that were analyzing in terms of the cost benefit relationship of exercising some of our option to insulate SMR to any further significant declines beyond our target range.
And what we are trying to do is get comfortable that were pursuing the most efficient approach from a cost to capital point of view.
Some of the strategy has dont cost anything thats the PRM that Eric summarized the other strategies have some modest cost but relatively relatively immaterial and then some other strategies we would probably only look at if we felt pressed so I say.
So weve got a number of levers were trying to evaluate John and I know you know that this what were paid to do.
So were after it.
And just real quick so if we fast forward to this time three months from now and were on the conference call is it fair for us to assume that one or more of those levers would have involved? Yes.
Thank you.
Next question Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
I guess maybe if we think about it this way a 100 basis point movement rates is roughly 200 or some other points give or take? Based on these strategies that you are undertaking how would you -- what is your target for that same sensitivity?  I think one of the things we are doing is working on what the people are calling risk appetite statements and I think within the framework of risk appetite statements we will provide guidelines to our operating people regarding our target values -- minimum target values for items like SMR.
And 500 to 600 range weve quoted it have been kind of an informal statement of risk appetite.
So were just kind of I mean weve communicated a lot of financial targets in the past and thats pretty much where we operate them.
So were going to try to stay in those zones.
We obviously want to avoid concern on the part of the regulators.
So thats an overriding objective too.
Ken you got anything?  I dont know that I can answer that.
Okay Mark I dont know that was responsive intake.
Well I guess maybe just if you dont want to give a number can we say that that sensitivity will likely be substantially reduced when we look at kind of March 31<sup>st</sup> ?  That will be our objective yeah that will be our objective.
We use to reduce the sensitivity.
But the overriding objective is to keep the SMR within the 500 to 600 target at various interest rate scenarios both yen and dollars thats what we are looking at.
What keeps it in that range? Okay.
And I think I heard Kriss say that the cost on the JGB side is nil and the cost to I guess execute the strategy on the corporate bond side is immaterial I think I heard you say that? I guess the obvious question is why havent weve been doing this all along then? Well we havent seen the volatility of interest rates.
For example I think the thing we are looking at on the corporate bond strategy is probably interest rate hedging strategies that has cost associated with it depending on the level of risk and sensitivity we want to retain or going through kind of cost effectiveness modeling exercise on that strategy.
The PRM does have some cost to it because we wont have to do some JGB transactions you cant just reclassify accounting wise youve got to classify when you acquire them so we would have to sell some JGBs and buy similar replacements and alike get them reclassified.
But the cost didnt material considering overall affect I think it somewhat 1 to 2 basis points on the trade.
Eric do you have any other comments? Yeah.
Id like to add Mark just a couple of comments to put in context and weve been very very open since Ive been here around our transformation.
So taking the step back as you know historically before I got here the investment strategy we are just very focused on either JGBs or private placement and HTM.
The tools and the sophistication and the intellectual capital to do interest rate hedging strategies which obviously encompassed doing derivative type strategies modeling your portfolio understanding these sensitivities are quite complex as you can all appreciate.
Two years ago when I got here we were just not equipped to do that whether it would the systems the technology having the appropriate operation set up to do all that the legal agreements with broker dealers of this et cetera.
But part of our transformation program a big part is design so we can do all the investment techniques in the market that are necessary to run a large balance sheet.
The good news that I can tell you is we do have that intellectual capital now.
We have the systems capabilities to do the modeling and we are doing that with the highest priority which is what Kriss commented on before.
But these are new for Aflac so it has to go through the appropriate governance procedures.
We have to ensure the appropriate operational capabilities to set up to hit that aspiration.
And in all those things a good news is we are well along in our transformation where we can impact we are working on these things.
But weve got a little more to go before we can prepare to execute.
But as Kriss said by the time we have this call in the third quarter well be able to tell you about the progress with PRM because thats live and thats moving along as we speak.
And the analysis and ability to do the interest rate hedging on the U.S.
portion is well along and analysis and in the few weeks well be able to move our ability to execute and do transactions to do that.
So I think well have good news for you by the end of the quarter but that gives you the answer to why hasnt it done before hopefully.
Okay.
One very very quick follow up I know that on waste sales you kind of gave a couple different reason one of which was shift to kind of [trough]? Im just actually curious if youve seen any changes in surrender activity on the product you saw in 11 and 12 was just that kind of change in Japanese market? No.
We havent I think its too early to see that our products have significant surrender charges in them prior to the time they become paid out that really wont occur until 2016 2017? Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeff Schuman from KBW.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could give us a little bit more big picture perspective on Japan Post.
I think its pretty widely understood that Japan Post wanted to manufacture their own cancer product.
Im wondering if we should think of your arrangement is maybe a temporary one until the IPO at which point they might reconsider competing against you with their own products or how should we think about it the relationship in a longer term? Im going to let Charles Lake to answer that.
This deal is structured as a long term relationship deal and it is deep down in that regard.
It is an exclusive agreement that makes it very clear that Japan Post group including Japan Post Insurance will be offering Aflac to cancer products.
And again I maybe repeating what Tohru and Dan talked about but Japan Post group has Japan Post Insurance as well as Japan Posting Network Company.
That network company has 20 000 post offices that has 100 000 licensed agents.
As Tohru talked about we will be training them and so on but there are already insurance agents that are trained.
So they are going to be selling eventually when we reached 20 000 that is 100 000 agents gradually down the row Aflac Insurance and Aflac branded insurance that will gently develop within.
The third component of this deal that was announced again makes that very clear that is it is a long term relationship that we have structured here.
This is a special product that we will work with them.
Here are their views and then develop but it is an Aflac branded product.
So in many ways as Dan talked about this deal it is a game changer.
It is indeed a president setting.
Other insurance companies have had some access to the channel.
But we are making in many ways setting a president here in a way that makes this a very very big deal in Japan.
The media coverage in Japan all the front page articles that appeared when these deal was announced with any indication all prime time news covering this deal with any indication but that kind of a deal is not going to be a two year or three year deal that only was structured for the IPO so.
Hopefully Ive given you enough or some of the flavors of the nature of a deal in a way and why we believe its a long term.
Thanks Charles.
Thats all very helpful.
Just to be crystal clear so when you say exclusive that clearly means they won't sell products and other third parties.
But are they precluded from manufacturing their own product? Charles Lake  It is an exclusive deal that Japan Post Insurance will not be developing its own cancer product.
Thank you.
Next question is Steven Schwartz from Raymond James and Associates.
Probably a follow-up on that one I guess two things.
The original deal was structured in 2007.
Obviously this deal has more of the post hours.
But I think the assumptions had been that youre going to expand from the original amount.
I guess my first question is this didnt really sell well the first time around.
I guess -- what's different this time? I want to answer this.
Charles Lake  Okay Dan.
And then you can Charles.
If you remember when we announced I specifically said dont get your hopes up too high on Japan Post.
I specifically said that the banks would be much bigger than would be the post office.
Everyone got real excited and our stock hit all highs at that time.
I was always felt that we needed to temper it because we did not have the network or the group as we call it.
We only had one part of it and the insurance company and these agencies were not a part of it.
So we never knew exactly what would happen would the post develop their own product would they not.
This is now totally different.
Now Im willing to say this is a big deal.
So Im very excited about that.
Okay.
Unless something else is going to trend in back in 2007 if I remember correctly Dan and I do remember youre talking about the banks versus the post office and banks being much bigger.
But I do think that you were thinking at the time that the post office might be as big as Daiichi back in the day which was about 10 billion yen.
Is that reasonable to think about?  Were not going to make any comments on numbers at this point.
Were in too early stage but as Ive told as said on CNBC this is a game changer and Im willing to make that comment but I cant quote numbers at this point.
Weve agreed to wait and see with Japan Post and so it would be improper at this time.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
Thanks guys.
Weve got two minutes left.
So well take the last call please.
Thank you.
Our last question today comes from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Quick follow-up on Japan Post and then another one on the SMR on the Post it seems like another difference this time around is the 79 direct sales outlets that come with the deal.
So what is your expectation that youd start to sell-through those outlets? Charles? Yeah.
Should I answer that? Yes.
Yeah.
Yes.
That's a arrangement that would be an agency cont arrangement between two insurance companies and that just as it was the case with Dai-ichi it requires an approval from FSA.
So we will be working on that.
So pending approval for FSA as soon as we receive that approval we will begin that process.
And again I think Dan hit all the key points and maybe Im repeating what he said but this deal was the entire group with the holding company that ultimately makes it an integrated deal makes it special.
So it's not just the Japan Post agency Japan Post Insurance agency but the Japan Post network both combined in a coherent strategy to implement as a group in exclusive deals to sell Aflac Cancer product.
That's what makes it a game changer Charles you might mention about new management.
Yes.
Thats a very important point.
Mr.
Nishimuro the new CEO of Japan Post Holdings one of the most highly respected international business persons in Japan former CEO of Toshiba and former CEO of Tokyo Stock Exchange and he has taken on this leadership role and he has expressed his vision for the IPO and working together with different companies and were one of the first companies to have structured the deal and made the announcement.
He also made a very kind statement in the press release that we issued.
So this is a private sector seal with demonstrated record of success in a global economy and Dan and Nishimuro had a wonderful meeting and we are looking forward to that strategic cooperation in that regard as well with this new management team.
I also want to mention Mr.
Ishii who is the President of Japan Post Insurance Mr.
Takashi from Japan Post Network Company all are combined working together as a team with us.
Tohru and I had a number of meetings with them and we are very much looking at this as a long term and working in a way that will make this a big success.
So all of this is very positive in our view.
Okay.
And I guess maybe Ill just follow-up on Japan Post.
So when we went down this road with the banks it turned out that the banks wanted a really different product than what you guys were selling through the other channels both in terms of how the product was structured I believe also in terms of how they were paid commission wise.
So I guess that initially you are going to sell I believe what you are going to sell through Japan Post is the same cancer product that you are selling today but I guess as we think about Japan Post wanting to create their own product also going public and wanting to be profitable could we see something similar as we saw with the banks in terms of maybe a modified product that may not be similar to the cancer insurance products that you guys have sold through other channels? No.
It will be similar but it will -- it will have Japan Post stamp on it that is what they want.
But it will be same profit margins and much similar -- it will still be a cancer policy.
It's not like we are all of sudden going to in wait or somewhere else.
This is going to be very similar how you would view it from an analyst perspective.
Got it.
So same margins same benefit ratio all that stuff.
Exactly.
Perfect.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate all of you joining us today.
If you like to follow up with any question I will be available.
So thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
Thank you.
This concludes the conference call.
Thank you for joining and all parties may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Aflacs Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Maam you may begin.
Thank you Marianne.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter conference call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac; Ken Janke President of Aflac U.S Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO of Aflac Incorporated; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
And from Japan we have Tohru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan joining us.
Before we start this morning let me remind you that some statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and the operations in Japan.
Dan and Kriss will join us and provide further details about our activities and 2013 and 2014 EPS guidance.
Dan?  Okay thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I am pleased that we met and in many cases exceeded our financial targets for the third quarter.
Notably we believe we are well positioned to increase operating earnings per share about 5% for the year before the effect of currency.
At that time we anticipate operating return on equity will be strong in the range of 22% to 25% for the year before the impact of the yen.
We will spend some time talking about our financial and earning guidance this morning but let me take a few minutes to give you a high level perspective on the operations and how I view our business.
I will start with Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
We continue to enhance our distribution opportunities and product offerings in Japan.
Im very pleased with expansion of Aflac Japans last agreement which pays and post which commenced in October.
This agreement ranks together the Japan the most the largest nationwide distribution network in Japan and Aflac Japan the industry leader in cancer insurance.
Both companies will be able to maximize numerous synergies by working together.
With respect to our products in Japan Im pleased with our newest medical offering which successfully launched in August.
We expect this product will continue to popular with consumers.
The combination of Japan post and the new product were allowed is the strong indication of our focus on our higher return third sector products.
In regard to Aflac U.S.
the sales environment continues to be challenging.
The U.S.
consumer sentiment hitting it's lowest level in nearly a year.
Our job is to be multi-dimensional in our distribution to create a presence where consumers want to purchase our products.
Were working to enhance our sales capabilities both through our traditional sales force and brokers who operate in local regional and national markets.
In addition were currently policing Aflacs private exchange platform which we believe will provide us with even better access to smaller case market.
Were also creating products that respond to and anticipate the needs of consumers and businesses particularly in the current healthcare environment.
With change comes opportunity and were positioning Aflac in a way that we should benefit from healthcare reform.
Whether were talking about our operations in Japan or the United States as an insurance company our primary mission is to fulfill our obligations to the policy holders at the same time were listening to our shareholders and understand the importance of capital deployment.
To enhance the predictability of that capital deployment we fortified the level of SMR and taken steps to insulate the capital ratio against factors that connectively impact in the future.
Doing so gives us greater confidence in our ability to target and deliver our profit repay creation amounts from Japan to the United States.
Once we know our customer obligations are satisfied our objective is to enhance shareholder value through share repurchase and a growing cash dividend.
As we said for many years we believe those are the most attractive uses of capital and those are the avenues we will continue to pursue.
In fact in 2013 we initially expected share repurchase to be in the range of $400 million to $600 million we now anticipate purchasing $800 million of shares this year.
That means we will be purchasing more than 500 million of shares in the fourth quarter alone.
Previously we have communicated our expectation of 2014 repurchase to be in the area of 600 million to 900 million for the year.
We now anticipate next years range to be 800 million to a $1 billion.
Im also pleased with the action by the Board of Directors to increase the quarterly cash dividend by 5.7% effectively for the fourth quarter 2013.
This marks the 31st consecutive year of increasing our cash dividend.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at a rate generally in-line with operating earnings before the impact again.
Overall Im pleased with Aflacs position in Japan and the United States the two largest insurance markets in the world.
But let me leave you with this thought [ph] you have all heard me say my job is to balance interest of all stakeholders.
I think we did a good job for that this year just as we have in the past.
I believe were going to do it again next year by protecting our policy holders with a strong SMR and returning significant capital through our owners.
So now I will now turn the program over to Kriss.
Kriss?  Thank you Dan.
I would like to follow-up with a few comments on how we delivered on those promises and what it cost.
You may recall that in the second quarter conference call I was asked if there was a sense of urgency to stabilize the SMR.
My simple answer was yes.
And today I can tell you that we completed several actions during the third quarter to fortify and enhance our SMR as well as to protect FSA earnings and profit repatriation in the future.
Let me take you back to the second quarter of this year.
The U.S.
Fed made comments that resulted in a spike in U.S.
interest rates in May and June.
Interest rates in Japan also increased.
And by June 30 we have experienced a significant decline in the market value of Japans assets categorized as available-for-sale or AFS.
As a matter we went from a net unrealized gain position in the AFS portfolio at the end of the first quarter to a net unrealized loss position in the same category at the end of the second quarter.
This mark-to-market decline was the primary factor because our SMR to decline by 101 basis points to 585 at June 30.
Now while that SMR result was still within our targeted range we were concerned that another spike in interest rates whether in the U.S.
or Japan would further lower the SMR and make our share repurchase activities more uncertain.
The first thing we did was to begin using the policy reserve matching our PRM accounting category in Japan.
We used PRM to limit the mark-to-market risk on about $7 billion worth of our Japanese government bonds that were previously held in AFS.
While using PRM did not materially increase the SMR during the third quarter it does provide significant SMR protection against further increases in yen interest rates.
In addition we executed derivative transactions to reduce dollar interest rate risk.
For the use of interest rate collars we hedged approximately 25% of our total dollar exposure in Japan against the risk of rising interest rates.
Then late in the quarter we entered into a reinsurance agreement excuse me which generated an SMR increase of about 115 points and represented the majority of the SMR improvement in the third quarter.
While the cost of the reinsurance agreement will lead to about an estimated nickel per share reduction of EPS in 2014 we believe that provided the most cost effective means to increase capital in Japan.
Now let me discuss some other factors primarily involving investments and other operating expenses that are affecting our 2014 guidance.
These factors highlight the reasons why we expect our 2014 earnings growth rate to be somewhat lower than our 2013 growth rate.
First let me describe the investment headwinds.
In the third quarter of 2013 we made a deliberate decision to move toward a more conservative asset allocation revising our asset allocation to emphasize yen denominated purchases.
At present we estimate that about 51% of our 2013 Japan cash flows will have been invested in yen with the balance allocated to the dollar denominated U.S.
corporate bond program.
Because we anticipate continued volatility in the financial markets for some time to come we expect to allocate 80% to 90% of our estimated 2014 cash flow to yen denominated securities with the balance going to dollars.
In addition we continue to see very low investment yields in Japan.
This change in investment allocation along with assumed investment yields and less new cash flow combines the negatively impact investment income growth by approximately JPY6.9 billion before taxes or about $0.11 in operating earnings per share.
Expense headwinds included increase in commission expenses related to an increase in Japans consumption tax rate beginning April 2014 which is expected to cost us about JPY2 billion or $0.03 a share in 2014.
In addition we increased our commitment to a multi-year program we referred to as the corporate value enhancement program or CVEP as we may later refer to it which involves a major investment in our business systems and processes to strengthen our position as the leading provider of third quarter products.
In total the increased expenses for Aflac Japan in 2014 excluding the cost of reinsurance agreement and consumption taxes on commissions will be about 8.5 billion yen before taxes or about $0.12 a share.
Like Aflac Japan Aflac U.S.
is increasing it's spending to strengthen service levels for our distributors and customers.
This initiative will begin with significant improvements through our enrollment and billing systems.
The additional expenditure on this project will likely total that $7.3 million before taxes or about a penny a share.
We do have some (indiscernible) wins as we offset some of these costs.
We recently modified our U.S.
pension plan and retiring medical benefit plans which reduces our liability and will result in lower expenses going forward.
The change in both retiring medical and pension plans will lower expenses by about $24 million or about $0.03 per share in 2014.
As Dan mentioned we have upwardly revised our expectations for share repurchase in 2013 and 14 both of which will benefit EPS growth next year.
Additional we expect the majority of our share repurchase activity in 2014 to occur earlier in the year.
The incremental benefits our earnings from the expanded share repurchase program is about $0.12 per share in 2014.
We understand that many of the activities were undertaking come at a price and the price is a slightly rate of EPS growth in 2014.
Taking all of these factors into account of the yen average is 95 to a 100 yen to the dollar for the fourth quarter in 2013 and continues into 2014 we would expect 2014 EPS to be in a range of $6.28 a share diluted share to $6.52 which is a growth rate of approximately 2% to 5% on a currency neutral basis.
It is important we think that perhaps [ph] all the items are discussed the 2014 EPS growth rate objective would have been comparable with the 2013 EPS growth rate we expect to achieve.
More importantly as we look to the future we anticipate the headwinds we face in 2014 will diminish significantly in 2015.
We believe all actions we plan for 2014 will ultimately serve not only to protect our policy holders but also benefit recurrence to shareholders.
Now let me turn it back to Rob for some comments on the quarter.
Thank you Kriss.
Before we begin with our Q&amp;A this morning I want to take this opportunity to remind you all that we will be hosting our 2014 (inaudible) meeting in Tokyo Japan on Tuesday September the 16th but please mark your calendar and we hope to all see you there.
Were going today to go straight into the questioning and to be fair to everybody.
Please remember to limit yourself to one initial question and only one follow-up that relates to your initial question.
Now we will be happy to take your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Ive two questions and I guess maybe more directed to Kriss or Dan.
They center around the two bigger items that are headwinds for 2014 I guess you know the infrastructure projects that youre talking about in particular for Japan for next year.
Im just wondering if you had any discussion internally about redirecting for example some of the incremental spending that you expect to do in the fourth quarter of 13 around promotions spending that sort of thing toward may be getting a head start on the infrastructure projects instead.
In particular it seems like you have got similar tailwinds around Japan third sector sales growth in over the next one to two years maybe even longer given the medical product rollout and given the Japan cost arrangement.
And given there is also some increasing signs that the Japanese government may yet again adjust deductibles?  Well let me  I will let Kriss answer this but let me just say that its an accounting issue.
We cant prepay anything.
We have  we can only do it as we actually have the contract working on it and it takes time but I will let Kriss go into more detail.
Well as it relates to the so-called CVEP project I will make a couple of comments and then Id like Tohru Tonoike to make some additional comments on this.
John this is a multi-year project.
Its a significant long-term project that we have  we initiated several years ago.
For the first couple of years we were able to absorb the cost of the incremental cost that doing the project planning and some of the initial work within our operating expenses in Japan within the normal earnings increase to guidance.
We have reached a point though in the project where we have to ramp up the expenditures for a couple of years to be  to really make solid progress on both the administrative the marketing and the ITE aspects of this project.
I have identified what the ramp up is for 2014.
We expect to spend a similar amount in 2015 but that wont incrementally affect earnings.
So its not as simple as moving some promotional expenses in the fourth quarter of 13 to offset the anticipated expenses for the project in 2014 project simply too big.
Tohru would you like to make some additional comments on CVEP and then we probably need to come back to the sales question.
Yes.
As Kriss pointed out that we have been developing the program during the last couple of years but OECs of the program most of our jobs that are of  say what I call the planning and less implementation or a development of the program.
But during the 2013 we have increased the level of the program development of the program and then best activity will be higher in the 2014 and then it will be plateaued for the rest of the several years.
So yes and as Dan mentioned the timing of incurring the expenses is tied to the volume the work we put into the program.
So we discussed to move the timing accelerate that work to the extent possible but there arent too much say flexibility available to us on that.
So this is as much as we could have done.
But let me say one other thing one of the things thats driving this project to cost more money is as you remember how you all complained about we were slow in putting in rate increases.
Our systems couldnt handle it.
We now  this is part of this new project is it we can address that upfront and we are getting it done as quickly as we can for future not so much the past.
We feel fine now what we have done in the past.
But for the future and Paul is going to make some comments about sales because he has been over there he will be moving over there in January.
Yes.
John really quickly I will say that obviously the additional promotion expense is around pushing our third sector products.
We clearly deemphasized the first sector and emphasized the third sector.
And we are trying to push those products where we fill the launch of our new EVER plan has done at or above expectation and we feel strongly about where were going to end up the fourth quarter on the third sector side.
So overall I think the coordination of our communication and promotion is critical to the success of the sale and I feel very good about what were going to do in that marketplace.
And then my second question related to the outlook for investment for the investing of new cash flows you know I understand that 80% to 90% in JGB is you know for 2014 and Im guessing thats obviously going to reduce the new money yield pretty dramatically given where rates are right now.
But Im just wondering you know youre two years into this build-out of the new investment department with an eye toward a more balanced investment approach overtime.
You know and you spend a lot of money on that and it appears the outcome and maybe this is more market driven I would appreciate your comments but it appears the outcome you know after all that spending and build out is that youre still going to end up investing very similarly to the way you did a couple of years ago.
Well that is true right now for the short term but take into account all of the things that we have been doing so far.
We have addressed the issues with Europe we have done the colors [ph] we have sophistication now that we would not be able to handle have we not staffed up.
If the staffing up for us to buy 80% - 90% of our business in JGB the answer is no.
Our staff up is to have a diversified portfolio but we have to take what were dealt at the time we have been dealt and we felt the most important thing is to you know again hearing it loud and clear from all of you make sure you get the profits out of Japan and we have had to firm that SMR which cuts down the volatility with the JCB but dont take this that we like that.
We would much rather be much more diversified we would much rather being doing the things that we told you were setting up for but I promise you that this new department that we have setup has capabilities in monitoring that we have to have in place before we can take on some of these.
So Im going to let Eric talk about it but I didnt feel it was fair for Eric to have to depend what Im responsible for originally setting up and while we set it up.
Yeah I would just add to that thank you Dan.
When you think about the investment in the group it just simply cant boil down to as you return higher than it used to because Dan went over so many critical issues that were important to the health and the future of our balance sheet that we were able to address through these investment but I have also add when you look at these returns is a long term right? It's not what you did this quarter this six months it's the long term.
So I would offer to you since the build-out of the team the fact is we have instituted parts not all but parts of our strategic asset allocation.
We have $11.5 billion in what we call the hedged corporate bond program that was not there before and it's not for the build-out.
We probably would have had that money primarily NJGBs [ph].
So if you just look at that bucket and I will give you just a net estimate on annualized basis if you look at the incremental yield of those hedge corporate bonds taking out the price repaid for the forwards the incremental expense of the investment team which again is spread out over many different things were just focusing it on this.
Were looking at a net of about a 125 million or so an annuity stream of income and thats just after two years of building out not that I have got here and started with the 50 extra people we had to hire them.
Were in the middle of instituting a new technology platform and throughout that period we have addressed and reacted to things that have happened in the market that are critical for the overall company.
So I would offer we have accomplished a lot for that investment and there is more to come.
So from a taxable [ph] standpoint we will always be careful to the markets and the needs of the organization.
And Eric fair to say that you know the market gives you some opportunities over the coming months to tactically adjust that allocation and you will respond I assume.
Absolutely.
The teams are thinking about the markets and our different options all the time.
And one last comment as well and Dan touched on this it shouldnt be lost that the reduction in our private placements which is the biggest risk that we have is significant.
I think when I got here we were close to 50%.
We are now just under 30% of the overall portfolio.
And that docket of privates is in much better shape than its ever been which helps us to have confidence in the future health of the balance sheet.
No question.
Thank you very much for the full response.
Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar of Deutsche Bank.
Hi good morning everybody.
You touched upon the Japan post-deal again this quarter and I want to dig into that a little further if I could.
In maybe better understand the opportunity there and I understand that there are 20 000 branches that you now have access to but at the same time this is potential product has roughly 15% 16% penetration in Japan already you have a 50% market share of new sales.
So how does that opportunity really play out over the next few years if you could add some color to that?  Yes I am going to turn it over to Tohru here in just a second to talk to his perspective on Japan Post this is Paul but I will tell you that as Dan called it at the last conference call a game changer we want to make sure you understand that everything that happens in Japan happens at a methodical and very pragmatic pace.
We have amounts that we are opening up a 1 000 additional post office locations beginning in October.
And we believe that through the middle to end of next year we will potentially be looking at products and how we will enhance our cancer plans effectively sell through the Japan Post channel but we believe over time that product and that will be pushed through that channel in a highly effective manner and we believe its something they can be a benefit.
We are not ready to commit to any particular numbers based on what are continuing and ongoing negotiations with Japan Post about how that will both be rolled out in terms of the number of branches as well as what the sales targets will be but Tohru if there are any additional comments you want to make we just continue to believe that this is a significant deal for the company and we will have a material impact on our cancer sales.
Yes Paul thank you.
And one thing I would like to point out is that the Japan Post network is a huge network and that network happens to have the least say overlap with our existing distribution network.
In other words we have been very good after the promotion of the business in the large metropolitan areas but relatively not so good in the rural areas.
On the contrary Japan Post network is spread all over the Japan including very rural areas.
So we are hoping that having the Japan Post network will help us increase the sales in the areas which we have not been so strong in.
Okay.
And I have one follow-up on that if I could.
Looking at the guidance for 2014 basically you are saying without the specific headwinds that you discussed earnings growth itself having the mid-single-digit range.
And I guess I was a little surprised to see that that earnings would not have come in stronger than that given the new emphasis on third sector sales and maybe ACA being less of a headwind next year.
And just want to hear your thoughts on that?  Lets repeat that again please.
Okay.
So if I look at the guidance for 2014 my understanding is that without the specific headwinds that you detailed earnings or EPS growth would have been the 4% to 7% range.
And my question is why wouldnt it have been higher again without the headwinds given the fact that you are emphasizing the more profitable third sector products in Japan and maybe ACA becomes less of a headwind next year as well? Why wouldnt we see earnings come in a little higher than that?  Well it would have been in closer to 4% to 7% if not slightly higher than that.
As I pointed out last year it takes a little bit of time for the effect of the first sector products to earn their way through the financials even though we are writing about 60% to 70% less ways in the last three quarters of 2013 then we wrote in 2012.
We still wrote a fair amount in the first quarter of 2013 and were still writing a fair amount even though the percentage reduction is high as a percentage reduction is.
It's still a larger volume of business than the third sector products.
In addition youve got some persistency differences between the first sector products many of which were paid for with the so called discounted advance premium program and when people pay all the premium upfront they dont tend to laugh because they dont have to make any more payments but you still get premium earning out so that persistency on that first sector of business is better than still very strong persistency on the third sector business.
Fundamentally the guidance I gave that they will be meeting for margins and benefit ratios both between first sector and third sector is holding up well based on our experience so far and it's just a bit too early youve seen the change in margin toward the higher margin third sector products.
So it just takes it a while to play out the long answer to a good question but the 4% to 7% was kind of in-line with the 2013 initial guidance.
Again our guidance is usually on the conservative side historically and we have usually done a little bit better than that so Im not guaranteeing that but Im just saying thats historically being a factor in our guidance.
I would like to say one other thing about the life product sales.
Were revisiting caps on the sales because it's interest rates have gone down.
We think it's something we need to consider and we will know more about it but were certainly considering it for 2014 and we will let you know more at the time.
Our next question comes from Nigel Dally of Morgan Stanley.
Quick follow-up on the assistance cost.
I think a lot of investors are wondering why the CVP cost werent incorporated into your comments back at Investor Day.
If you can bring development in this program now for several years did you expect those cost that to be absorbed in the regular budget and youre giving that more precise and how much is it going to cost any color there would be very helpful and also just on another question on the U.S.
I understand your private exchange is in test mode but perhaps if you can also discuss a little longer term you plan to perhaps get your product on some other positive changes like that which say break us into steps.
Thank you.
Nigel I will make some comments on the CVP project as I said initially weve been trying to observe the cost of that into our general operating expense for as long as we could.
During the early to middle part of 2013 we basically finalized a plan that have been through a couple of iterations both with the project administrators and executors that were using as well as with outside consultants that were used in this program.
We finalized that plan pretty much during the middle part of 2013 and got a much better handle on the plan were going to use to proceed and so we had a more certain estimate of cost after we completed the plan and actually that was our replan that we went through.
So we have been doing a lot of work on this we have been doing a lot of internal cross examination to make sure we have the value proposition correct and that were committed to go on forward with it and now were at the point where we do believe we have a value proposition correct.
We do have good cost estimates going forward.
Let me see if Tohru wants to add anything to that but essentially thats it from my perspective.
Yes.
The only thing is that during the basically the planning stage we have been able to absorb the cost within our general expenses.
And as Kriss mentioned it was in the third quarter of this year when we finalized the plan for the whole program at which time we became able to communicate our plans more clearly to the outside world.
So yes and so like I said that until 2013 we were able to absorb the cost within the general budget but that asset the program going into the full implementation stage that is the amount of the cost to exceed the range we can absorb.
And Nigel I would add this comment we have constantly reassessed priorities and the ability to change the products and premium rates on the per sector products that became a much higher priority one that we felt like have the economic impact to justify the increased expenditure going forward.
So from an investment point of view we thought okay this is an investment we need to make to protect our future financial position.
Nigel this is Ken.
Let me comment briefly on your exchange related question.
Dan has indicated that we are in the process of piloting the Aflac private exchange which referred to as Everwell.
It actually just started last week.
So we have had several cases built in a very limited number of markets but we dont have enrollments occurring yet.
It was our decision when we began down this path to take a very conservative and pragmatic approach to the market with the rollout of the exchange.
We want to make sure that it meets everyones expectations the agents expectations the expectations of the employer as well as the employee and also us internally.
So we prefer to go a bit slower as we launch this.
So we are piloting in three states.
If all goes well we would expect a schedule rollout next year but the purpose right now is really for the 50 and under case size market.
So its a very targeted market for the Aflac private exchange into  a couple of years from now to likely go up to a 100 but the private exchange will primarily be for the small case market.
Your question about Aflac products appearing on other exchanges that is something that we are evaluating currently but its really taking for right now at least a backseat to the efforts we are taking to get the AFLAC private exchange rolled out properly.
Its great.
And those states Nigel are Texas Georgia and Illinois.
Great thanks a lot.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar of JPMC.
Hi.
I had a question first on the reinsurance agreement that you singed in Japan could you just discuss the mechanism of the contract how it works and I dont think it affects FSA or GAAP results but you could mention that as well? And then like you have the potential for more and under what circumstances you might consider additional contracts the only other one I had was on the U.S.
business and there has been a lot of talk about healthcare reform.
How much do you  longer term do you see this as more of an opportunity or a threat as it affects the supplemental products market in the U.S.?  I will take the first one.
I have always believed that with change comes opportunity.
What better example then we go back to 2001 with Japan and realized that everyone thought we were dead we were in trouble.
Cancer insurance was going to be taken away by the big life insurance companies.
Three months after the initial deregulation we were the number one seller of medical insurance and still hold that to this day and now have cancer insurance have continued to be number one.
We are positioning ourselves that we will be  continue to be the number one insurer with supplemental health insurance products.
I believe our ability to be able to do exchanges our ability to be flexible because of relatively low price products I believe it's going to stand out more because different plans that are being offered bronze silver gold and I think it's pretty clear the vast majority of people are going with the bronze plan it's going to be offered.
That means it's going to be a very defined amount of out of pocket expenses to consumers which plays well with us.
Also our brand our name recognition is now it's hit 94% no one that is in the market today even though there may be other companies that have reasonable brand awareness not to our level but they are not seeing as being supplemental health products. So I think were in a great position Im excited about it there is uncertainty make no doubt thats out there today but that too will pass and when it passes we have to be ready and to go in a way that I think will accelerate growth for us and were counting on that.
When and where and how it will do as I mentioned consumer confidence is down that hurts us.
Other areas people that want to procrastinate are always looking for excuses they can use right now.
I want to wait till everything is finalized with national health plan but all in all I dont think I would swap places with anyone in the industry in terms of being prepared for healthcare as we are right now.
Now the other question who wants to take that?  Ill take that thats all about the structure of the co-insurance agreement and some related questions.
Jimmy the reinsurance agreement is co-insurance in nature with a third party reinsured thats authorized for reinsurance in Japan.
We co-insured portion of one of our more established predictable profitable blocks of business.
It's a no-cash transaction upfront going forward we will see the portion of the premium income from that block net of an expense allowance we receive from the reinsurer and reinsurer will reimburse us for the proportionate share of the claims on the business.
So it's a pretty straightforward agreement.
But because the reinsurance is permanent in nature were allowed to take a reserve credit in say financials for the pro rata share of FSA reserves on the block and the amount of those reserves we get a credit for is approximately a 100 billion yen.
You know based on the difference between the premium we pay and the claims we expect to receive there is a net cost associated with agreement and I indicated what that is it's anticipated to be about a nickel a share in the 2014 GAAP financials.
As far as U.S.
statutory treatment the reinsurer is not an authorized reinsure in the U.S.
so we will report our U.S.
statutory earnings based on the co-insurance being an effective agreement in terms of stated premiums and claims but we will not admit the reserve credit.
So we won't get any surplus relief on the U.S.
statutory statement or the risk based capital measure but that didnt trouble because our RBC is already strong enough and we didnt feel like paying the extra cost of you know that it would take to get the reserves backed by letters of credit and authorized for you know surplus recognition in the U.S and on a GAAP basis nowhere I mean were releasing some reserves but were putting but a deferred profit liability amortizing the cost in accordance with the accounting requirements and you know again the net cost is what I indicated.
Okay thank you.
Going forward you ask again about additional capacity we believe we do have additional capacity but I will say that I view this as a sale of a portion of our business and its not an action we would enter into lively compared to say a financial reinsurance transaction where you are basically getting a loan and paying it back over a period of time.
This is more of a permanent transaction and not something that I would enter into routinely.
Regarding capacity I think we do have additional capacity but its not something we are going to look at quarterly and see where our SMR is and say okay do we need another $2 billion reinsurance this quarter? Thats not what we are going to do.
Got it thanks.
Our next question is from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
First question is Dan did I hear you correctly that you said you were reconsidering the limits that you have on (indiscernible) sales just wanted some clarification on what you had mentioned there  That is correct.
What I have said is that with interest rates moving lower we adjusted put limits last year and this year.
We are looking at them again now for 14.
So even though our productions weigh down we still could have limits even more so.
So we are monitoring that and seeing what we need to do.
And we are not the only ones in the industry doing that.
So its not limited as this does.
Other companies are doing that as well.
Basically this is Ken the price increase that we implemented for first sector products in effect became a production cap because they were the primary distributors moved out our products but with interest rates declining again in Japan we dont want to repeat a 2011 where our other companies put in production caps and all of a sudden we have become more attractive product in the marketplace.
And so you can still make this a good profit margin product investing in JGB so I assume the pricing has been dramatically altered then.
Well it was dramatically altered April 1 when we increased the pricing of the product to recognize the 1% standard valuation interest rate in Japan we basically re-priced first sector products at 1.25% but still even at that level though we have got profits in it we are trying to minimize the low margin products emphasizing the higher margin third sector products.
And since April the deals in Japan have declined further.
Thats correct.
Great.
And just one question related to your capital return program Kriss when we think about the I guess what annualized you are almost at a $700 million level for common dividends and the buyback for next year expected to be $800 million to $1 billion should we think about that being a level as you move forward into 15/16.
Is that just based on the way you have optimized things? Is that  should that be a fairly consistent amount of capital return? Do you think thats going to go up materially or you are kind of overspending how  can you frame how we should think about what you have done now and what that would mean more prospectively?  I wouldnt say its overspending at all Tom.
We are not pulling down additional capital from Japan to invest in share repurchase.
You know that historically our profit repatriation from Japan has been somewhat highly correlated with the FSA basis earnings and we have been trying to make sure that we achieve some stability in those FSA basis earnings.
On average probably over the last 10 years we have taken out about 80% of our FSA basis earnings as profit repatriation and lot of that gets allocated to the share repurchase activity.
In various specific years we have gone around 50% or 60% of FSA earnings.
And in one year we took out 100% but in general there is going to be high correlation between profit repay creation and FSA basis earnings and our guidance is based on the notion that were going to be able to stabilize FSA earnings and the increased repay creation would kind of be a normal increase associated with recognized FSA earnings you know and then the common dividend and the share repurchase it roughly you know approaching 2 billion a year is what I would consider kind of a normalized run-rate not excessive or not supplemented in anyway but other than normal earnings.
So approaching 2 billion meaning you could have another 500 million or so of upside as you think about it going forward?  Well we have given the 2014 guidance but you know as you said you know thinking about round numbers I mean were between a 1 billion and a 1.5 billion and what comes next which in my mind is 2 billion so as I think about 2015 2016 youre probably heading in that direction.
And lets be clear no one has to make it clear to us that thats what our shareholders want us to do.
We got the message and thats what were doing.
Were moving that way and thats why this call and these things that were doing.
This is our number one priority because thats what our shareholders believe will ultimately enhance the value of our shares.
Our next question is from Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
I just wanted to ask if you could just clarify the last statement that you made Kriss in terms of the profit repay creation.
Did you just say that you were moving towards 2 billion?  Not all profit repay creation by itself but I was including the payout to shareholders including common dividend which is approaching 700 million and you know a $1 billion say of share repurchase in 2014 which be expected to increase somewhat over the next several years.
And we should have said the number but in my mind it's kind of in the range of where Im shooting for.
Next question on the U.S.
sales and Japan sales I guess in the 2014 guidance there was no guidance for what youre looking for in terms of sales growth and either the U.S.
or Japan.
With the weak sales in the U.S.
in the third quarter I was somewhat surprised that you did not change the 0% to 5% target for the full year and with the pick-up in sales in the third quarter in Japan Im little bit surprised that you haven't gotten more comfortable providing guidance for 2014.
So can you just address those issues please?  I will let Paul do Japan then Ill cover the U.S.
Overall you know obviously we dont know where were going to finish this year with the strong momentum that we have in the third sector due to the new product launch in the middle of August.
It's hard for us to tell exactly how were going to finish the end of this year.
However we do believe it's going to be at the high end of the range that we have given 0 to 5 but at this point as Dan mentioned there are quite a few factors going on all the sales projects for next year whether we put in caps on first sector products whether we you know what products were going to launch in terms of next year and having in the third sector.
We do feel third sector is going to be continue to be the emphasis but at this point we just cant give you a strong range what we will do though is in the fourth quarter at least give you those numbers and thats what we have traditionally done even though we have given you the earnings release previously we have given you the sales projection at the end of the fourth quarter and thats exactly what we plan to do to remain consistent with years passed.
And as far as the U.S.
goes I never like to say were not going to achieve an objective but I think the headwinds that we have had regarding uncertainty in this fourth quarter gives me pause [ph].
So I would not say that Im optimistic but I do believe once this calms down that again where there is change is opportunity and I believe that were going to get it together.
The main thing Im trying to do right now is to concentrate on getting it right for healthcare reform.
And Teresa who is our Chief Operating Officer at Columbus and Dan Lebish who we put as the Chief Operating Officer of Columbia with group insurance and Ken overseeing all of it.
We are coordinating to make sure we do these things right to handle and be ready.
And so that has been my emphasis for the remaining of this year.
Our director sales their quotas are still based on the numbers that we set.
There is no lowering or anything.
So they are all pushing as hard as they can but as I said I am not as optimistic we will achieve that but I am going to say never till the end because with group insurance and other things big things can come through so we will watch it and see.
Okay.
And then just one last final question and that is on the deductible in Japan what level of confidence do you have that there is going to be structural changes that occur in Japan and that would include an increase in deducting the deductible on the national healthcare programs? And what kind of timing would you be looking at?  Well you remember that I said it was going to 50% 10 years ago.
I said well if it went to 0% to 10% to 20% to 30% I didnt see any reason it wouldnt eventually go to 50%.
Well my answer is I am already behind because I thought it would have happened by now on some of it.
Now Paul is over there and maybe to (indiscernible) comment on.
I would just say that obviously its the third pillar of (indiscernible) he has had great success in some of the implementations thus far.
And I think its difficult to ever predict whats going to go through a political system whether its here in the United States or in Japan.
The fact is however the population demographics continue to push in such a direction as well as the overall Japanese consumer sentiment about the healthcare program in general.
And you have seen them already talking specifically about raising the co-pay for ages 70 to 74 I dont know if Tohru wants to chime in on this but I think in general its very difficult to us to commit anything thats outside of our control.
Obviously if it were to shift to a 40% or 50% it would be a positive tailwind for us.
Tohru?  Yes this is Tohru.
I think I agree with Paul about the prospects of the co-pay for the elderly people between 70 to 74.
Okay thank you very much.
Our next question is from Randy Binner of FBR Capital Markets.
Hi okay thank you.
I will keep it brief since we are at the top of the hour but just on the buyback this quarter now is pretty significant at $500 million so just want to clarify that you have not executed on any of that so far when the blackout period for that is over and if you have any special execution plans to get that done this quarter given the size?  Randy this is Ken.
We typically move out of the blackout period after in the afternoon of the daylight today after the conference call when we know all of the news has been properly disseminated.
We have evaluated not only our capital position but trading volumes and restrictions that we have for purchasing on a daily basis and we are confident that we can execute those purchases in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
So we hadnt bought any so far and after 12 oclock today 1 oclock we can be in the market.
Okay great.
Yes that would be good.
And then just one other quick one just a follow-up on the reinsurance transaction is it  when you say its prominent how prominent is that? I mean can you get out of it or is this I am just kind of curious what the definition of permanence is there?  Well there is recapture provision in there.
I suspect if we negotiated with assuming company we might be able to do something but thats not our intent.
We intend to let it play out over time as I said albeit more as a sale of a block of business than I do shorter duration reinsurance arrangement that can be recaptured.
And is this counterparty can we take it as the Japanese insurance company?  Its an international insurance company that operates in Japan.
Okay.
And then one last one just detailed question you outlined there is $0.05 of EPS cost for the reinsurance deal where does the hedging piece such as the rate collars fit in is that in that $0.05 or is that somewhere else?  I dont have anything to do with that.
This is strictly a claims reinsurance didnt have anything to do with interest rate hedges on assets.
There is no asset transfers involved.
We remain responsible for all the exchanges and the investment income on assets back in the block it's strictly claims released and exchange for the payment of gross premium net of an expense allowance.
I guess what Im trying to say what is the callout then on the interest rate colors is there a cost in the kind of the list of headwinds to 14 EPS?  There is zero cost color but there are settlements depending on where rates move to.
But the estimate is zero.
Okay Marianne as Randy pointed out were past the top of the hour.
Were going to take just one more question.
Thank you.
Our final question comes from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Can we revisit CVPs follow-up CVP the $0.12 that youre the increased $0.12 what is the total amount that youre spending on this in 13?  Tohru might be able to answer but what were addressing here is the incremental cost over 2013.
Actually you know the way you measure cost we have had a lot of discussions with Aflac Japan personnel and you know it's whether you go through a fully absorb cost and all that kind of thing and I dont want to get into that on accomplished goal.
So I will just say that EPS the guidance is the excess direct cost that we intend to invest in the CV program over what we invested in 2013 however that number was derived.
A question on the reinsurance in the long run does the historical ratio of the amount that you repay relative to FAS earnings does that change it at all because of this?  Well were not we will get to count the reserve release as part of FAS earnings.
However we are leaving the reserve release in Japan as part of our capital base.
Were not going to repay three any portion of the profits triggered by the reserve release associated with the reinsurance agreement.
So if you just look at reported FAS profits they will be significantly higher well by about a 100 billion yen than they would have been without the agreement and we dont plan to take any of that out.
We plan to generate capital with this transaction and we couldnt achieve that purpose if we repay created that portion.
Okay how about in 15 and 16?  Im relying pretty much on routine FSA operating earnings which will not be benefited in any extraordinary way by the reinsurance agreement.
There will be a routine cost in the FSA earnings approximately of the same amount that impacts U.S.
GAAP earnings as I indicated.
There will be a difference between the premiums net of allowance is paid and the benefits received that will probably a net cost of reinsurance that will go through 2015 FSA earnings in addition to GAAP and staff [ph] but thats not material compared to you know what were talking about on the initial reserve release associated with the transaction.
Okay and then one more if I may with Paul moving to Japan what is the chain of command in Japan these days?  Well the operating will still be run by Tohru.
He is still the Chief Operating Officer and in charge.
Paul is not going to be living there for the rest of his life.
He is just moving over there for a period of time six months to a year whatever it ends up being just to better understanding Paul speaks Japanese.
He will just be over there learning the culture more being associated with them building relationships with them and giving him a better understanding of exactly how it works and they all get along very well and I am very pleased with how thats going just as I am pleased with Ken and whats going over there and the job that Teresa is doing.
I think all-in-all this has been a very smooth transition and just allows flexibility for you to understand our management team and let them be able to be able to do cross jobs and do different aspects up.
Okay thank you guys.
Marianne thank you very much for about 15 after the hour if anyone wants to follow-up after the call please call Investor Relations and we appreciate your participation on the call.
Thank you.
This does conclude todays conference call.
You may disconnect your phones at this time.
Welcome to the Aflacs Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
Id now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Ken Janke President of Aflac U.S Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO of Aflac Incorporated; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us today from Tokyo are Paul Amos President of Aflac; and Tohru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Before we get started let me remind you that some statements in the teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because theyre prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and the year as well as our operations in Japan and the U.S.
I will follow-up with a few financial highlights for the quarter and the year and then we will be taking your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin and good morning.
I am pleased that we met and in many cases exceeded our financial targets for the quarter and for the year.
Let me begin today with an update of Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
Pre-tax earnings in yen were up 16.9% for the quarter and 13.6% for the year reflecting a stronger dollar.
Sales of our third sector products were up 15.7% for the quarter and for the year third sector sales increased 4% which was at the high-end of the annual sales target of flat 5%.
The increase in third sector sales largely reflects a favorable response to our newest ever medical product introduced in August and innovative advertising promotions of this product.
As anticipated our largest medical policy has proven especially popular with consumers in their 20s to 40s.
Even our under penetration of this demographic Im especially pleased that these efforts do appeal to consumers in their 20s to 40s that yield very positive results for us.
Consistent with our expectations Japans new annualized premium sales in the fourth quarter declined 33.3% for the quarter and 29.1% for the year.
These results are largely attributable to the significant decline in the sale of WAYS product following the repricing of first sector products in April.
Reflecting on the expansion of our distribution channels were pleased with our agreement with Aflac Japan and Japan Post Holdings.
I believe that in the coming years cancer sales through Japan Post will steadily benefit our business.
If you recall the first sector sales particularly WAYS were very strong in the first three months of last year leading up to the premium rate increase that took effect in April of 2013.
As a result we expect first sector products to be down 60% in the first quarter of 2014 due to very difficult comparisons to last year.
However the second through the fourth quarter of this year we expect the sale of first sector product to be slightly down compared to last year.
Most importantly though our focus this year will remain on growing the sales of third sector products.
As such we anticipate third sector product sales to increase 2% to 7% in 2014.
Now let me briefly discuss U.S operations.
Pre-tax earnings were down 1.3% for the quarter but up 4.1% for the year.
For the year Aflac U.S pre-tax operating earnings were ahead of our target.
In the fourth quarter which typically generate our largest sales production Aflac U.S annualized premium sales had a disappointing 10.4% decrease.
This results contributed significantly to our full year sales decline of 4.3%.
In recent quarters weve acknowledged the impact of healthcare reform especially to the accounts less than a 100 most notably accompanying confusion and problems associated with the federal exchange.
We believe this kind of reoccurring uncertainty is linked in the sales process as small businesses especially are more hesitant to engage in changes to healthcare reform.
They want to gain greater access and -- regarding the implementation of affordable healthcare act and how its going to affect them.
Saying that a sales decrease of 10% in a quarter is unacceptable to us.
The one constant has been and continues to be the need for our products.
There is no plan not even the best major medical plan that is designed to cover all out-of-pocket expenses.
We will continue to drive home the need for our products to businesses and ultimately their employees.
Youve heard us say many times in the past that part of our job is to gain access to employers to ensure our products are conveniently available to consumers.
I'll remind you that about 98% of our products are sold for the work site and more than 90% of those sales come through smaller employers with a 100 employees or less.
As such were working on several key initiatives in 2014 that support our multi-faceted distribution network in reaching out to business of all sizes.
With respect to our career agents first were focusing on recruiting and training.
Second we're concentrating on performance management for the territory directors and sales coordinators.
Third were in the process of piloting Aflacs proprietary exchange which is geared to employers of 100 employees or less but those of 50 or less are our primary target.
Fourth were incentivising the management of our career sales agents to focus on smaller businesses while working with brokers to write larger businesses and to that end in October were putting a strategic and tactical focus on businesses with less than a 100 employees by aligning our recruiting training compensation and market incentives to encourage specific activity and sales in that segment.
Additionally were continuing to focus with brokers on a regional and national level to give us better access to mid and large markets.
We have already represent more than 60 benefit administration platforms sometimes referred to as exchanges with various brokers.
I believe 2014 will be a good year for broker sales as we continue to push to segment our distribution.
Finally we will continue to seek opportunities to leverage our strong brand and relevant product portfolio in an evolving healthcare environment.
While some facets of the U.S economy has shown signs of improvement we continue to see a challenging economic environment in the U.S.
Many small employers are still very guarded with respect to their business outlook including their hiring plans.
This can impact the universe of potential policy holders weve access to.
Taking into account all the strategic initiatives design to empower our sales force in 2014 along with the challenge in economic environment we expect the Aflac U.S sales in 2014 to be flat to up 5%.
When we look back over our investment performance in 2013 our decision to enhance and protect our SMR by allocating more new money to JGBs suppressed our new money yields.
But despite taking a more conservative investment path last year our average new money yields of 2.47% in 2013 was still slightly higher than 2012 results.
As we enter 2014 were reviewing our asset allocation strategy related to Japan new money investments.
Based on current capital position and market outlook weve resumed purchasing U.S dollar securities for Aflac Japans portfolio within ranges consistent with our asset and strategic allocation plans and product needs.
We will continue to evaluate the allocation strategy based on investment market dynamics and capital and make tactical changes consistent with our outlook.
Turning to Aflac Incorporated our consolidated financial performance was strong for the quarter.
Excluding the impact from foreign currency operating earnings per diluted share rose 6.8% for the quarter and 5.2% for the year.
This result puts us slightly ahead of our annual expectation of a 5% increase in operating earnings per diluted share before the impact of foreign currency.
While policyholders are top of mind we also strive to enhance shareholder value through repurchasing our shares and increasing the cash dividend.
We believe these are important  the most attractive uses of capital and those are the avenues we will continue to pursue.
For the full year we purchased $800 million of shares which greatly exceeds our original target we set at the beginning of the year of $400 million to $600 million.
As we said in the third quarter we expect share repurchase in 2014 to increase over 2013 levels to be in the range of $800 million to $1 billion.
Our advice for 2014 is to frontload our purchases as such we expect to purchase $400 million to $500 million of our shares in the first quarter.
I'm also pleased that we increased our cash dividend to shareholders last year.
2013 marked our 31st consecutive year in which we've increased the dividend to shareholders.
Our objective is to grow the cash dividend at a rate generally in line with our operating earnings before the impact of the yen.
Finally taking into account the headwinds and tailwinds we've covered I want to reiterate our primary financial objective in 2014 which is to increase operating earnings per diluted share 2% to 5% on a currency neutral basis.
We continue to believe that we are well positioned in the two best insurance markets in the world.
We're fortunate that we have the privilege of providing financial protection for more than 50 million people worldwide who count on us to be there when they need us most.
Now I'll turn the program over to Robin.
Robin? Thank you Dan.
I'd like to get through some fourth quarter and annual numbers this morning especially as related to the yen impact which was strong and I'll start first with Aflac Japan.
Beginning with the currency impact for the quarter and the year during the quarter the yen weakened against the dollar 19.5% and for the year the yen weakened 18.2%.
In reference to top line in yen terms revenues as reported were up 4.1% for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of currency revenues were up 2.6%.
Investment income as reported increased 15.7%.
Excluding the weaker yen in the quarter Aflac Japan dollar denominator and investment income net income rose 5.5%.
In terms of quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio to total revenues declined over last year going from 63.9 to 61.2 in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact from the reinsurance agreement initiated in the third quarter the benefit ratio for the quarter would have been 60.8%.
Additionally if you exclude the impact of the weaker yen the benefit ratio for the quarter would be 62.1%.
Now looking at the expense ratio it was up 18.9% up from 18.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.
This increase reflected additional spending in line with our expectations.
Reflecting the improvement in the benefit ratio the pretax margin increased during the quarter going from 17.7% to 19.9%.
Excluding the impact on currency the pretax profit margin for the quarter increased 18.8%.
With the expansion of the margin pretax earnings increased 16.9% in yen terms.
Excluding the impact of the yen pretax earnings in the quarter increased 9.3%.
The reinsurance agreement from the third quarter had approximately an $8.2 million pretax income on earnings and a $5.4 million impact on an after-tax basis.
Now let me turn to Aflac U.S.
total revenues rose 1.4% for the quarter.
Persistency for the year was 76.8% compared to 77.1% a year ago.
Looking at the operating ratios the benefit ratio for the quarter was 52.7% compared to 50.8%.
This reflected various reserve adjustments made in the fourth quarter.
The operating expense ratio improved going from 34.6% to 33.1% reflecting less than anticipated spending in the quarter.
The profit margin was 14.2% compared to 14.6% a year-ago.
Reflecting the increase in the benefit ratio in the quarter pretax operating earnings decreased 1.3%.
Now turning to investment activities for the quarter let me first start with Aflac Japan.
Approximately 94% of new cash flow was invested in JGBs for an average yield of 1.37%.
As a result the total new money yield in Japan for the quarter was 1.5% down 48 basis points from September 30 and down 121 basis points from a year ago.
Portfolio yield was 2.8% at the end of December down 18 basis points from the end of September and 7 basis points lower than a year ago.
In terms of U.S.
investments the new money yield for the quarter was 4.32% a decline of 19 basis points from September 30.
The yield on the portfolio at the end of December was 6.01% down 5 basis points from September 30.
Turning to a few other items in the quarter non-insurance interest expense was 51 million compared with 50 million a year ago.
Parent company and other expenses was 17 million compared to 6 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
On an operating basis the tax rate was 34.4% compared to 34.1% a year ago.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share declined 5.4% to $1.40.
The significantly weaker yen decreased operating earnings by $0.18 per diluted share for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the yen operating earnings per share for the quarter would have increased 6.8%.
Lastly let me comment and reiterate some of the statements that Dan's already made.
We have reaffirmed our objective for 2014 in the 2% to 5% increase in operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of the yen.
This year we estimate that 1 yen move on the average annual exchange rate will equal approximately $0.03 to $0.0325 per diluted share.
Assuming the yen dollar exchange rate remains at the 2013 full year average rate of 97.54 we would then expect 2014 objective of a 2% to 5% growth to be in the range of $6.31 per diluted share to $6.49 per diluted share.
Now we're ready to take your questions but first let me remind you to be fair to everyone limit yourself to one initial question and only one follow-up question that relates to your initial question.
Now we're ready to take the first call.
Do we have a caller on the line? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question is coming from Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
First question just around the outlook for third sector sales in Japan and I guess I'm wondering why the target isn't higher given the momentum you've seen with the medical product and how underpenetrated that younger age cohort is? And then really no benefit at all to-date from cancer and my understanding is you should the post specific product kind of on-boarded here in the second half of the year? This is Paul.
I'll tell you first of all we do expect strong momentum in the first quarter and the second quarter and that will be a continuity coming from the EVER launch in the second half of last year that drove extremely strong third and fourth quarter third sector sales.
It's because of that strong third and fourth quarter that were up against difficult comparisons of course medical product is going to sell in a higher level than the cancer plan in general as well as the market is growing at a faster pace.
That being said we remain confident about our Japan Post partnership and are continuing ability to grow that.
As we said it is a long partnership that is focused on growing it steadily.
We have continued to expand the number of post offices but doing so slowly and it really been a later half of the year before we see a significant number of post offices begin to come online.
As you stated the cancer plan is something we are focused on revising at this point pending approval from the government and focused on selling that plan with a specific plan for the Japan Post system.
At this point however were still in the process of developing that plan with Japan Post.
I cant go over the specifics of that but we feel very optimistic about it.
That being -- all of that being said all of that is modeled in the 2% to 7%.
And were -- I think that's where were and I think were confident about the numbers and what we're going to see for this coming year.
Okay and then maybe one for Eric.
Can you talk about the decision kind of to get back into the U.S securities asset class and then how we should be thinking about with rates kind of back down here managing the volatility of the SMR when rates should rise again since this -- clearly isnt eligible for that PRM category? Sure.
My pleasure.
Well going back in the last couple of quarters when the volatility hit last year and we change the asset allocation you will recollect I had said that we were going to spend significant time on recalibrating our SMR given the reinsurance how the capital position went up to the risk factors were exposed to in particular in the AFS category.
And those risk factors being yen interest rate dollar interest rate currency and credit spread.
So a great body of work has been completed on that which was our goal during the fourth quarter so that we could go into the year with a much clear path.
And given the higher capital levels that weve and all of our modeling we can sustain if rate should increase that negative impact to SMR of credit spread should rise yen yield should rise.
So we could still be within the SMR levels that management wants us to be in.
So SMR is now at a comfortable level where when those things happen in the market we can absorb an SMR that those impacts from unrealized gains and losses.
The other thing I would comment on as well there is a correlation effect between these factors.
So when U.S rates are going up suggesting a strong economic growth here the dollar is strengthening the yen is weakening.
But weve currency exposure in our SMR.
So those are risk factors that kind of offset each other.
So with all of that modeling and our view of that capital market that allowed us to go into the year with a view that we can get back on our path of the original strategic asset allocation from Goldman.
However were going to be much more tactical on how we implement that.
So the second part of your question is as were looking at the year a few things with respect to our U.S allocation that are based on today's outlook and the capital position.
One weve turned on the program.
Secondly were not going to think of it just as corporate bonds.
Its a bucket of U.S assets and we will use our discretion within my investment group to swap if you will between maybe U.S treasury securities and corporate securities based on typical relative value analysis.
So as an example as you all know in the corporate world the fundamentals are very rich.
On corporate theyre very healthy but credit spreads are at their tightest almost at all-time lows.
So were not expecting a lot of tightening.
We're also not expecting this year given our economic outlook for the U.S.
the credit spreads are going to (indiscernible) a lot.
But I don't really want to overweigh the corporate allocation when corporate spreads are so tight but I like the yield differential between U.S rates and Japan rates.
So within that U.S bucket throughout the year we will use our discretion from a relative value standpoint on how to allocate within the U.S bucket.
And the other thing I should mention as well the U.S program last year was targeting more or less at 10-year duration.
Were targeting a lower duration now in light of the fact that our view is throughout the year rates will rise and certainly in January we saw rates come down quite a lot because of the volatility in the emerging markets.
But by putting any new money into a shorter duration bucket of U.S assets were in essence building up protection for the event that rates rise so our unrealized losses wont be as great.
But over the long-term from an economic perspective were very bullish that these are very positive to the long-term health of our balance sheet and our earnings stream.
Great.
Thanks for the thoughts.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hi everybody.
Dan I think you briefly mentioned progress on the Everwell platform and on to broker exchanges in the U.S.
I was wondering A if you could give us a little more color on the Everwell progress? I think on the last call you talked about it has been 68.
So where does that stand today? And then on the broker exchanges I think you had mentioned being on 60 today which seems significantly greater than where you were a quarter ago.
So if you can give us any thoughts on both? Let me make a couple of statements and then I will have Ken talk a little bit more detail as were all working together to do this.
The one thing I think is important that all of you understand is we introduced a major change with our field force.
As you know were probably the only Company out there that is concentrated so heavily on accounts of 100 or less.
Its always been our bread and butter; its always worked very well for us.
Our agents have also rolled the accounts of 100 or more.
But what weve seen here as weve seen those accounts of a 100 or more shift more to dealing with brokers.
So as we started several years ago we started seeing the brokers coming in and we started to put them in our market to some degree.
But what we did in October is we made a conscientious decision to introduce to our whole management team that we were going to pay for performance by trying to get our agents to concentrate more on the accounts of 100 or less.
Well 90% was already there.
So it wasnt that big Now were not saying you cant do it were just paying to move you that way.
Were then working with the agents to where these agents will work with brokers to try to enroll what I would call the local brokers more and they end through our plans with Aflac group were doing the national brokers.
So this is a major shift that all occurred in the fourth quarter.
And at the same time were now getting ready as you talked about to move to Everwell with the small businesses which especially will be 50 and less.
And of course we got the delay with the Obamacare that now it wont go into effect till next year.
So all those things kind of hit at the same time which I think accounted for part being our problem part being that we arrive more small business but all in all unacceptable numbers in my case.
So I will let Ken talk a little bit about specifically your Everwell and what we're doing there and then if Teresa wants to follow-up with any comments she is welcome to.
Ken.
Yes.
Let me start on the Everwell exchange.
Were right in the middle of the pilot.
We had orchestrated an extended pilot from October 1st through the end of March of this year.
It's actually in three states one of which weve our appointed agents in that area have access to not only our products but major medical as well as vision dental and life and then the other two test states right now.
Theyre limited to all the products -- theyve all the products but not a major medical because it is such a sweeping change in how we maybe enrolling the small businesses in the future we wanted to take a very pragmatic and conservative approach to this.
So well evaluate after we finish the pilot in March.
Well evaluate our rollout plans.
We currently anticipate that well be rolling the platform out to the majority of our states throughout the balance of this year but the exact timing of that rollout is going to be dictated by our assessment of the pilot and we're not quite done or in a position to make that assessment.
I can say that generally we're pleased with what we've seen so far.
We have seen higher penetration rates than we've seen in our traditional business for accounts of the same size which was one of the success metrics that we're focused on.
Over the longer term we'll focus on things retention of accounts as well as distributors.
But we do expect that it will go well and that we will be a position to rollout.
That said we don't expect for it to have much of an impact on sales in 2014.
But if our rollout plans meet expectations and we're able to roll it out as we currently anticipate we should start to see an impact in '15 and beyond.
With respect to the benefit administration or exchange platforms that you referenced we've actually had those in place for some time now but they're basically I'd call it one-off arrangements with distributors and accounts and their overall impact to sales last year was not really material.
But in thinking through our exchange strategy for the larger case market that's something that you'll largely see come out of the core broker and then our large national broker efforts through Aflac Group in Columbia South Carolina.
The first step of which and our major focus right now is to build out distribution in Aflac Group.
We're in the process of expanding the number of employed sales people that we have that will bring relationships to us with brokers or establish relationships with brokers so that they can convince those national brokers on the case for voluntary products and more specifically that we should be the provider of choice for those voluntary products.
And then we'd look at the most efficient way to enroll those clients and that would likely be through an electronic platform like an exchange.
But the first step right now we're really focused on building out the sales capacity at Aflac Group so that we are in a better position to reach the brokers and then get on those exchanges.
And Ken is concentrating of course on combining the two both Aflac Group and Aflac Columbus but Teresa maybe want to make a couple of comments on Columbus because that's still 90% of our sales.
And so Teresa you have any comment.
I'll just echo what Ken said with regard to Everwell.
Currently we have a couple of other platforms that we use today; our SmartApp unit that you all are familiar with.
The majority of our activity is basically driving the multi distribution strategy handing the sales operating guidelines making sure that we have all of the alignment with compensation and sales targets so that we can migrate everybody to this new Everwell exchange.
It does.
And one quick follow-up on that if I could.
On the national exchanges with the national brokers do you think that the investments you're now making in sales and in the platform will be ready to bear some fruit for 2015 enrollment; come in in October November of this year? Well we're really positioning this for better growth out of the large case markets for group products in '15.
This is really a build-out year of sorts.
Again we're increasing our ability to reach those broker distributors.
As you know there's a very long lead time to large cases so we're really positioning this for  while we would hope expect there'd be much growth in the group platform in 2015.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Mr.
Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Sir your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
On the U.S.
business maybe if you could talk about just recruiting and growth in the producing agent count because it's been weak for a while and I'm not sure if that's just lack of finding good candidates or are people not willing to give up unemployment insurance or what's going on that you're having a difficult time finding recruits in the U.S.? And then there was a question earlier on  new money investments in Japan.
I don't know if you mentioned how much of your new money you're intending to deploy in the U.S.
securities whether it's corporate or treasuries? Jimmy let me start on the recruiting.
We are really focused as Dan suggested in his comments.
We're focused on a few very basic activities for our traditional sales force this year.
We really want them to focus the majority of their efforts under 100 accounts size.
We're also focusing on what we referred to as core brokers it's really the local and regional brokers that Dan has mentioned we're focused on asset management which is a fancy way of saying we want our career sales force to make sure they're getting the most out of their book of business so that in effect they're not leaving business on the table by really calling on their accounts and managing their business properly.
And then the other one is recruiting.
Recruiting has always been a core component of how we build our sales force.
Newer agents tend to be the ones that bring us the newer accounts where we have opportunities to really grow the business.
I think one of the things that we've not only focused the activities squarely on recruiting but also on the type of individuals we'd like our sales force to recruit because I do believe that there was some effort on our sales force that rather than recruiting the career agent that we typically built this business on there were trying to recruit brokers instead.
So we've really refocused their activities this year.
On referral recruiting nominations and getting the type of sales associates that have long been known to build this business.
We have seen a bit of a turn.
I think it's too early to comment with certainty but so far this year with that new focus we're pleased on the kind of recruiting activity that we've seen.
It's still down year-over-year but at a significantly lower rate of decline than what we'd seen throughout 2013.
So we are focused on that.
By focusing on that and also the training and getting those new agents to focus on the small business area the accounts fewer than hundreds lives we think we'll also be successful in pulling up the numbers of producing agents.
I'll just follow-up with three areas of focus.
One area of focus really trying to make sure that our people who are recruiting in our career channel that those folks don't compete with trying to recruit brokers as well so we basically focused the career recruit channel on really recruiting people for that career channel and then we moved a lot of the market the people who were recruiting for brokers into a core broker channel which really supports the distribution channel or the channel segmentation and it also supports how the market has shifted as well.
The other thing that we're doing is recruiting ads and you'll see some of those recruiting ads there were very successful in the past for us with really getting interest for Aflac and with regard to recruiting.
And so we decided to bring those back.
The last thing is making sure that all of our goals for recruiting are aligned within the hierarchy.
So any contest any compensation is aligned across the hierarchy with regard to recruiting as opposed to one or two people holding the goal for recruiting.
The comp is tied to it.
It's Eric to answer the second part of your question around the percentage allocation of new money.
Just a couple of factors that go into that allocation.
One is when we discussed new money what we're discussing is cash flow from operations and maturities and interest from existing assets.
But we also consider sort of the target balance of our asset classes at year end which ties back to the strategic asset allocation work.
So with regards to U.S.
assets if you will as a target not necessarily meaning we're going to get there 25% of the Japan assets would be our target for U.S.
assets at the end of the year.
When we calibrate what I discussed earlier the new money statistics that we expect SMR we would currently expect no less than about 40% of our cash flows to be in U.S.
dollars but again that would depend on market factors SMR.
And one other factor is during the year which has already happened this year we may dispose of some securities like you know about Israel Electric for instance.
Those proceeds came in January were invested into the U.S.
program but that's not counted as new money but it would count towards our year-end target.
So there's a variety of factors that go into that.
And then finally I would remind you I can give you some of these estimates but as I said earlier we will be more dynamic with respect to the risk factors in the market what's happening with spreads what's happening with rates.
So I think youll see us be more opportunistic as well as conservative from a safety standpoint depending on what's happening in the market but certainly well report throughout the year on how it all panned out relative to our expectation.
And the U.S.
investments those dont qualify for policy reserves matching accounting treatment rate? Thats correct.
Those go into AFS.
Good.
Thank you.
Let me point out that on a U.S.
statutory basis the assets are held at amortized cost as opposed to mark-to-market so it's not a big factor in RBC.
It's more the SMRs would have changed though right? Yes the SMR for Japan is sensitive to fair value.
Got you.
Thank you.
All AFS securities but in the U.S.
were not on RBC for the U.S.
operations.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Sir your line is open.
Hi good morning everybody.
Just a quick follow up on the investment side.
I dont remember the exact amount out of Japan in terms of the new money investments in total from 2013.
If memory serves it was effectively an all time record given the very strong sales in the first sector channel.
How much is that overall new money investment going to decline in 2014 given the continued shrinkage of the first sector the fact that third sector sales clearly require less from the perspective of investment income? It's Eric.
I can give you the numbers from last year and the projections this year in total cash flows and then perhaps one of my colleagues wants to discuss at that second level between sales.
But to your comment earlier last years cash flows were 1 118 000 000 000 yen but thats cash flow from operations maturities and interests from the portfolio.
So theres a lot of attribution within it.
For this year again in total the projections are 771 billion yen.
Got it okay.
And then I think the only other real question I have is as youve done all this work around SMR sensitivity in calibrating especially post the shift to the PRM classification; can you give us some sense for how much the sensitivity of the SMR has come down especially relative to changes in interest rates? This is Kriss; let me say that we have done a lot of work on that we intent to go into that in some depth at the FAB meeting.
I didnt want to do it on this call.
But let me just say that with our SMR at its current level in the mid 700s we believe that were well protected against the fall below the 500% to 600% which is kind of our overall low level operating objective.
The way I am looking at SMR right now is that we dont want to broach our fallback position which Ill say is 500% to 600%.
We clear like about staying at about 750% in today's market environment.
There are very few scenarios where were going to pierce below 500% to 600% for changes in U.S.
interest rates changes in Japan interest rates changes in currency rates.
So what weve done is to insulate ourselves against the low side of the SMR exposure due to volatility in those macro factors.
And we believe that enhances our ability to give the investment team flexibility to pursue their plans without significant concern and it just gives us more assurance that well be able to manage SMR levels in a way that will allow us to achieve our plans for profit repatriation policy holder security and the like.
So we feel like the work we did between the third quarter and fourth quarter last year has well positioned us to manage in a very flexible way in response to significant changes in macro conditions.
I mean one our main objectives here is to never act like we had to do one time on share repurchase to constantly be increasing it every year.
And by having this bottom set we feel comfortable that we can continue to increase it unless something just unheard of happens.
Hey John this is Ken.
Let me just add if you just look at the SMR sensitivity to yen interest rates our -- as Kriss said we will talk more about it in our analyst meeting.
It is significantly less than it would have been a year-ago for a couple of reasons.
Number one is implementing the PRM category which insulated us from some yen rate risk.
The other is that now weve more dollar assets [proportionately] [ph].
So what does that mean while as weve got more exposure to dollar rate risk? So and weve taken some actions to try and mitigate that risk on SMR as well.
When you think of the market risks that influence SMR were exposed to yen rate risk dollar rate risk credit spread risk and currency risk.
And the problem is those are somewhat correlated.
You cant just aggregate one risk on top of the other to come up with an overall sensitivity and thats why were doing a little more work on it to give you a better indication of what kind of buffer we feel we should be maintaining to accommodate those risks.
Perfect thats really helpful.
If I can sneak one last one in because it's related it's just -- have you done any incremental hedging particularly around yen versus dollar as you look out to 2014 and beyond to insulate your expected profit repatriation from potential currency moves? Yes let me update you on that.
Our current expectation is to repatriate about 97 billion yen.
The last time we spoke we had hedged 47.5 billion yen at a little over 100 yen to the dollar.
We have added incrementally another 5 billion yen.
So we have roughly 52.5 billion yen hedged again a little over 100 yen to the dollar.
Weve elected to take -- use our yen cash flow from repatriation this year to service the 34.2 billion yen debt that we have maturing.
And so what that does is that frees up about $400 million that we had on the balance sheet that we had previously year marked for share repurchase.
So when you look at the 52.5 billion yen plus the 34.2 youre roughly 10 billion yen or so that it remains un-hedged.
And I think it's unlikely that well do much more for this year but we have already started thinking about 15 and taking actions to insulate against currency risk on that repatriation.
Perfect.
Thank you so much for everything.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Steven Schwartz of Raymond James.
Sir your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
I guess this all ties in but I do want to ask about what is going on or what can possibly be done in reinsurance.
I know I mean you kind of started it in -- I think it was May at the FAB meeting Kriss stated that he thought that the FSA was really against doing enforced block types of transactions to free of capital.
But youre sitting there with an SMR of 750 youve got PRM and youre doing some interest rate hedging.
Theres a lot of protection there.
The reserves are way way overstated in Japan relative to the U.S.
which is probably overstated relative to reality anyway.
Youve got one competitor thats done -- an American competitor that announced that they did a deal.
RGA is saying that theyre seeing a lot of companies do this.
Im wondering Kriss if you thought more about this or looked at this more? Yes were continuing to evaluate Steven.
I dont necessarily agree with all your comments you leashed maybe I do but maybe not in order of magnitude.
But let me just say that the -- the reinsurance we did at the end of September allowed us to achieve our objective of increasing the solvency margin substantially.
We dont feel like we need to do additional reinsurance to accomplish that.
Right now we've got it in reserve in case we ever need to do it.
What I do have my team exploring is the notion of doing a continuous program of reinsurance of this nature to alleviate to some extent the surplus drain we experienced relative to new business.
And what I think that would do  what it will do is to minimize the volatility of FSA earnings in responses to changes in production levels.
And it would also allow us to monetize to some extent some of the differences between the economic reserves which is how I'd characterize what you're trying to get to and regulatory reserves.
Keep in mind though that reinsurance of the nature we did those have a cost.
You are selling a block of business in exchange for a premium and it does have a cost and I've quantified the cost for reinsurance in 2014 at about a nickel a share about $30 million or so after tax.
So it's not like it's free.
Now let me say that relative to other companies we don't have an internal reinsurance subsidiary where we can do this program on an intra-company basis.
We've never been a reinsurance user to any great extent we haven't needed to we don't have a reinsurance subsidiary that deals on an arm's length basis with other companies which many companies do.
So that's kind of negative for us.
That being said we do recognize the possibility that we could establish captive reinsurer and that's one thing that we're going to look at.
That's not a short-term thing something that's easily achievable in three months but it could be a cost effective or cost efficient way to do some reinsurance and we're going to investigate that further.
So let me just say we intend to evaluate the use of reinsurance.
We can do more.
We're going to use it to again protect  probably repay for any addition and the like and there will be more to come on that.
But we're not just ignoring it Steven.
We're going to be using it effectively.
All right great.
And then as follow-up to  on the very very large cases I want to try to get a handle on what's changed here in the U.S.
with the exchanges you see around the platforms but you've been on the platforms for a while.
I mean my understanding has been at least for a year maybe two years all the big alphabet houses you've been with them but the issue seems to have been then getting their people to use you.
Is this really just the same situation they may be selling it in a different way but it's still the issue of getting the rep at Aon or Marsh &amp; Mc [ph] to use you is that still the issue? This is Teresa White.
Really the issue is making sure that we build out as Ken said that W-2 sales force that Dan Lebish is responsible for.
We're building out because most of these large broker channels which you may know they really go to market differently and it's not a product sale it's really understanding how they go to market.
And so the importance of those relationships is to really understand how each broker channel deals with the market and then how Aflac fits within the context of that.
And so the initial relationship or the initial interaction is more us understanding Aflac understanding their go-to-market strategy understanding and educating many of the brokers on voluntary product and then there's a process of selling.
What Ken referred to a while ago was a lot of the plumbing that was built for the six-year or so exchanges our platforms that we have today there were specific cases that wanted Aflac.
They asked for Aflac and they happened to have brokers involved.
Now that's some of it but others are really where brokers have brought us in and utilized us against other competitors.
So right now that's why Ken is saying right now what we've got to do is establish that  work that sales force at Aflac Group so that we can ensure that  and we call those sales people BDEs broker development executives and they'll be regional vice presidents managing that process.
But at the end of the day the relationship is what's important and Aflac understanding their go-to-market strategy and how Aflac product fits.
The one thing I would say that's very important here is it was somewhat murky in our organization of how brokers and agents and the new things we're all bidding together.
Now what we did in October is we defined exactly the direction we wanted everyone to go.
And we cut out certain things like for example these big brokers.
They don't want our agents calling directly on them.
That irritates them and they control the account and we've defined that better to stop that from happening.
So these are things that are major in terms of how we handle it in terms of emotional and trying to motivate our existing field force and we've done that through more commissions and shifting them.
And so all of this is just part of something that's unfolding right now that I'll ultimately think will enhance our sales.
I think we're going to be much stronger.
I think anyone that thinks that we're not going to be strong in the small market is mistaken because we've done so well.
I think anyone things that with the big brand we've got which everyone knows us in the supplemental industry in the United States will be mistaken when it comes to how well we're going to do with the brokers going forward.
We just got to let them know that we understand their needs and we're going to fit products accordingly and that's where South Carolina will come into play with our new president over there our new executive vice president over there and how he handles it.
And Ken will be coordinating those two efforts.
Steven Id actually argue.
I think the exchange part is the easy part because that's enrolling the business.
The hard part what we have to work on is we have to have the relationships we have to demonstrate to those large national brokers the value proposition for supplemental products again why we should be the provider of choice and how we can effectively enroll that business and service that business and get them paid quickly to have a pain-free experience.
So the enrollment itself through an exchange I don't see that daunting.
It's everything that's leading up to the enrollment that we really are working on.
Okay.
All right thank you guys.
Steven one other thing I want to comment on since we're talking about this new distribution strategy as Dan referred to it we're going to do a spreadsheet and try to outline the various aspects of this.
It will be available online just like we have other spreadsheets out there on investments and the such to help you better understand the market segments the channels the products within those channels that they'll be offering enrolling conditions et cetera.
So that should be available on the website sometime this afternoon we'll have that up there and I think it will help everyone understand better this new strategy in the U.S.
All right I'll take a look.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from Mr.
Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Sir your line is open.
Thanks.
Kriss I wanted to come back to the comments you were making about exploring captive re and I think the comments you used were to potentially stabilize J-GAP earnings and then dividend repatriation.
Should we be thinking about this whole evaluation more as making sure you have stability or would there be a significant enhancement opportunity? For instance the 1.3 billion to 1.4 billion or J-GAP earnings that you guys are run rating right now.
I mean if there is the possibility from this kind of transaction that you could increase that 50% if you structured it the right way or is that not the right way to think about this.
Is this more of a stability exercise than an enhancement exercise? No theres an opportunity for enhancement Tom.
I think you have to be measured in thinking about how much enhancement were going to have to balance cost and the overall results and we always manage the business for the long-term as opposed to the sort term.
So Im not looking for a quick pop on profit repatriation and a quick pop on share repurchase.
Im more interested in what we can sustain over the longer term.
But there is an opportunity for enhancement and thats one of our objectives.
Got it.
But we shouldnt be thinking about as you said  (Indiscernible).
Yes.
Okay got it.
So more of a measured enhancement? Yes if we got a 50% it wouldnt be achievable year-to-year.
If we went up 50% it would probably have to stay at that level assuming we could even get there which it might be achievable but I doubt that Im going to go that far.
Got it.
And then just a follow-up for Eric.
Your comment that you were positioning into shorter duration securities I guess.
I think that was just related on the USD allocations not sure if that also applies to what youre doing on the JGB side.
My follow-up on that point though is should we be thinking about this more a short-term tactical because ultimately you have to match your liability and you have very long duration liability.
So if youre shortening the duration today how long would you be willing to deal with tolerance of the mismatch? Sure.
Now thank you good questions and to your first one yes.
That was with respect to the U.S.
securities not our JGBs which are long -- the JGBs are longer in duration and more closely matched to the liabilities.
The second part of your question yes.
This is more tactical and keep in mind that shorter duration is for the new money to the existing portfolio which is quite large particularly when you take the U.S.
corporate program that we started as we called it and what we used to call the Japan dollar portfolio.
Were now thinking of that as one big bucket.
So that big bucket is it approximately a 10 year duration? And were not changing the duration of that bucket but the incremental new money is going in tactically the shorter duration which will bring the overall duration slightly down but we certainly have to have that focus on ALM and matching assets and liabilities.
So it is more tactical for this year at this point in time.
Okay thanks.
Well weve reached the top of the hour.
If anybody has any follow-up calls David and I will be in the office.
So please give us a call.
Otherwise we look forward to seeing everyone at our FAB meeting.
The information is out there for you to register and thank you so much for joining us this morning.
That concludes todays conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Aflacs First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Good morning and welcome to our first quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO Aflac Incorporated and President of Aflac US; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us from Tokyo are Paul Amos President of Aflac; and Tohru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Before we start this morning let me remind you that some of the statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because theyre prospective in nature; actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter as well as our operations in both the U.S.
and Japan.
And then Ill follow-up with a few financial highlights for the quarter and then well take your questions.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I am pleased that we met and in many cases exceeded our financial targets for the first quarter.
Let me begin today with an update of Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
Pre-tax earnings in yen were up 4.6% on a reported basis and 1.5% on a currency neutral basis.
Sales of our third sector products in the first quarter were up 1.8%.
This result is just slightly below our annual sales target and somewhat disappointing.
Our focus this year remains on growing the sales of the third sector products.
Last quarter we communicated our expectations that sales of first sector products would be down significantly 60% in fact in the first quarter of 2014.
This was based on difficult impact in the first quarter of 2014.
This was based on difficult comparisons to prior year for sector sales which climbed considerably ahead of the premium rate increase in April of 2013.
This quarter Aflac Japans first quarter product sales of first sector products were down 67.6% which significantly contributed to our overall and new annualized premium sales decline of 48.7%.
However we continue to expect that for the second through the fourth quarters of this year the sales of the first sector products will be down slightly compared to last year and we still believe that will be the case.
Looking at the long-term sales growth opportunities we remain encouraged as we continue to expand and develop distribution channels.
This includes an agreement between Aflac Japan and Japan Post Holdings which I believe will gradually but steadily benefit our cancer insurance sales in the coming years.
As we ramp up the sales representatives at the 3 000 post offices that sale our products I believe our 2014 expectations for Aflac Japan third sector sales to increase in the range of 2% to 7% is still reasonable.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operations.
In the first quarter Aflac U.S.
pre-tax profit margin was 20.8% and pre-tax operating earnings were up 7.9% for the quarter.
Aflac U.S.
sales declined 4.4% which was discouraging considering our results last year uncertainty around healthcare reform implementation has prompted many business and consumer to postpone the decision related to healthcare coverage specially with the groups 50 or less.
However amid this doubt and uncertainty we believe the need for our products is just as compelling if not more than ever before.
Thats the message we will continue to convey to businesses and to their employees.
Additionally I believe we have also executed -- we have not executed as well as we should have.
This year were taking several steps we think will help sales overtime this includes a focus on recruiting and training in addition to performance management and improvement of our sales coordinators.
At the end of the [launch] we completed the initial test works of Aflacs exchange called Everwell.
We are analyzing the first phase of the pilot program and are making adjustments to the platform based on those insights and field sales input.
Taking into account the strategic initiatives along with the challenging economic environment I continue to believe that Aflac U.S.
sales will increase in the range of flat to up by a percent for the full year for 2014.
Turning to investments; I am pleased with the progress in the multi-year strategy to build out our investment division.
Additionally we are on track to complete this build-out by the end of this year as we continue to make strides with the infrastructure the people the processes and the technology we are putting into place.
Now Im going to provide you an update on the consolidated financial performance which was strong for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency operating earnings per diluted share rose 5.9% for the quarter.
This result puts us slightly ahead of our annual target of 2% to 5% increase in operating earnings per diluted share before the impact of foreign currency.
However as the year progresses we expect to see increased spending and higher benefit ratios than we experienced in the first quarter.
As a result we continued to believe well generate operating earnings per diluted share in the range of 2% to 5% on a currency neutral basis.
On an operating basis our first quarter annualized ROE was 22.7%.
Keep in mind Aflacs ROE is sensitive to currency fluctuations because we are largely hedged our equity into dollars but not all of our earnings.
That means when the yen weakens our ROE declines.
Had the yen remained unchanged since the end of December operating ROE would have been 26% in the first quarter.
Based on our year-to-date returns we expect to meet our ROE target range of 20% to 25% excluding the impact of foreign currency for the full year.
We remained committed to generating strong capital ratios both RBC and SMR on behalf of our policyholders and our bondholders.
Although we have not yet finalized our statutory financial statements we estimate that first quarter 2014 RBC ratio will exceed 775%.
Additionally we expect that Aflac Japans estimated first quarter SMR will be above 750%.
You will recall we anticipated repatriating approximately a 100 billion in 2014.
Given our strong capital ratios and risk mitigation strategies we now anticipate repatriating 127 billion yen this year.
This increase in repatriation bolsters our liquidity and flexibility and gives us the utmost confidence in this years plan to repurchase $800 million to $1 billion for our common stock.
It also allows us to focus more on positioning the SMR repatriation and repurchase for 2015.
For nearly six decades Aflac has been delivering on our promise we made to be there for our policyholders when they need us most by paying clients fairly and promptly.
We continue to believe were well positioned in the two best insurance markets in the world.
Our success in these markets has presented us with the privilege and the responsibility of providing financial protection to more than 50 million people who count on us to be there when they need us most and we have delivered on that promise.
Now Ill turn the program back over to Robin.
Robin? Thank you Dan.
Id like to go over some first quarter numbers this morning especially those related to the yen impact which was notable.
I will start first with Aflac Japan beginning with the currency impact for the quarter.
During the quarter the yen weakened against the dollar 9.8%.
In reference to the top-line in the yen terms revenues as reported were up 2.2% while excluding the impact of currency; revenues were up 1.5% for the quarter.
Investment income as reported increased 9.4%.
Excluding the weaker yen in the quarter on Aflac Japans dollar denominated investment income net income rose 4.5%.
In terms of quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio to total revenues declined over last year going from 61.4% to 59.9% in the first quarter.
Reinsurance impacted the benefit ratio by a negative 0.5% in the quarter.
The improvement in the benefit ratio reflects typical seasonality as it easily increases as the year progresses.
Excluding the impact of the weaker yen the benefit ratio for the quarter would have been 60.3%.
The expense ratio increased in the quarter to 18.1% up from 17.1% in the first quarter of 2013.
Reflecting the improvement in the benefit ratio the pre-tax margin increased going from 21.5% to 22.0%.
Excluding the impact of currency the pre-tax profit margin for the quarter would have been 21.5%.
With the expansion of the margin pre-tax earnings increased 4.6% in yen terms.
Excluding the impact of the yen pre-tax earnings in the quarter increased 1.5% Now let me turn to some numbers for Aflac U.S.
Total revenues rose 1.2% for the quarter and persistency was 73.8% compared to 74.7% a year ago.
And looking at the other operating ratios the benefit ratio for the quarter was 47.1% compared to 48.0% last year.
The operating expense ratio improved slightly going from 32.5% to 32.1%.
The profit margin was 20.8% compared to 19.5% a year ago.
Primarily reflecting the improvement in the benefit and expense ratio pre-tax operating earnings increased from 3.6% last year to 7.9% this year in the quarter.
Now turning to some investment activity for the quarter let me first start with Aflac Japan.
Approximately 74% of new cash flow was invested in JGBs for a weighted-average yield of 1.51%.
During the quarter 26% or $1.1 billion of new cash flow was invested in U.S.
securities for a weighted-average yield of 3.37%.
As a result the total new money yield in Japan for the quarter was 1.99% up 47 bps from December 31 and down 104 bps from a year ago.
The portfolio yield was 2.86% at the end of March up 6 basis points from the end of December and 15 bps lower than a year ago.
In terms of U.S.
investments the new money yield for the quarter was 4.33% up 1 basis point from December 31.
Turning to few other items in the quarter non-insurance interest expense was $50 million compared with $48 million a year ago; parent company and other expenses $16 million compared to $17 million in the first quarter of last year.
On an operating basis the tax rate was 33.8% compared with 34.4% a year ago.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share were $1.69 in line with a year ago.
The significantly weaker yen decreased our operating earnings per diluted share by $0.10 in the quarter.
Excluding the yen impact operating earnings per diluted share would have increased 5.9%.
Lastly let me remind you as Dan said were reaffirming our objective for 2014 of a 2% to 5% increase in operating earnings per diluted share excluding the impact of the yen.
In this year we estimate that 1 yen move on the average annual exchange rate will equal approximately $0.031 to $0.037 per diluted share.
So if the yen averages a 100 to a 105 for the full year we would expect operating EPS of $6.06 to $6.40 per diluted share this year.
For the second quarter using the same currency assumptions we would expect operating earnings to be somewhere in the range of $1.54 to $1.68 per share.
Id also like to take this opportunity to remind everyone that our Annual Financial Analyst Briefing Meeting will be held in New York on May the 22nd and we hope to see you all there.
Now we are ready to take your questions but first let me remind you that to be fair to everybody limit yourself to one initial question and only one follow-up that relates to that initial question.
Now were ready to take your questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Jimmy Bhullar JPMorgan Chase.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
I had a question on Japan third sector sales so obviously they slowed a lot from the roughly 16% growth you had in the fourth quarter and the big part of that is the slowdown in the medical products.
So maybe if you could discuss whats going on there? And then related to that how do you feel about the Post relationship and how thats taken off and that just what your expectations are for how fast you can ramp up cancer sales by the Post?  Tohru?  Yes let me begin with our sales of the medical products.
We started we offered the new medical product in the August last year and have been selling pretty well for basically the full year.
And it continues to sell well even in the early part of this year.
It is true that it does not sell as much as it used to be but its just still maintaining the momentum.
And the first quarter is always a little bit slow quarter because every year our agents tend to slowdown a little bit after that busy fourth quarter.
And so but we are feeling pretty confident with the expectation of our medical sales going forward.
And also that you asked about our expectation about the JP Japan Post cancer product build up.
And I can tell you that since October last year when we expanded our operation with Japan Post Japan Post and Aflac have been trying to build up the new level of the cancer business and we did it together and we have talked to each other and made an agreement how to do it and both Japan Post and Aflac are doing exactly what we have agreed.
So the basis is building up as we have planned.
But because of the magnitude of the organization of the Japan Post the rollout has been slower than we had expected but we are working on that.
And now that April is the first month of their financial year so they have entered into new stage in which the new things are started.
For example sale of the cancer product Aflac cancer product now clearly defined as an important part of the Japan Post as business plan so they have more clear vision of the importance of that cancer product among the Japan Post.
And also we expect that in addition to the Japan Post and the [compositions] company will start working for us as soon as their application for the new arrangement with Aflac is approved.
So we are -- many good things were expecting many good things in the near future.
But I cant tell you how soon we can do it but were feeling pretty comfortable about the way its going.
Thank you.
John Nadel Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everybody.
Really a question for Kriss.
Kriss youve been if Ive been following this correctly I think youve been trying to shift our focus on repatriation from Japan from what used to be more of an earnings driven level of repatriations to one thats more of a function of the capital ratios or SMR.
So I guess the question is this with the increase in your expected repatriation how should we think about what you guys are targeting for an SMR ratio if you allow for some stress and maybe more specifically the incremental 27 billion how do we think about that in terms of the impact on the SMR in points? Okay.
So youre correct.
I am trying to refocus the orientation of repatriation from FSA earnings toward the absolute level of the SMR.
Its not to say that we ignore FSA earnings at all John but.
Yes understood.
In making the decision to target a higher repatriation then originally projected specifically a 127 billion instead of about a 100 billion house in Japan week before last and looking at projected SMRs as of the end of the first quarter and alike and concluded that if we kept about the same SMR that we had at December 31st which was around 777 specifically not in the 750 to 775 range we could bring back about 25% more than we expected or the 127 billion number and still achieve that level of SMR.
Now you made the observation that whats our kind of risk adjusted SMR target I forget what the exact words you used were but its not the 775 is our target SMR and thats got a cushion in it to allow for the fact that unrealized gains are substantial at the moment what would the impact on the SMR be if interest rates went up some what happens if we have some currency changes what happens if credit spreads increase.
And so we can absorb fairly a significant change in those factors and still stay above the what Ive called the core target which is going to be closer to 600%.
Perfect.
It might be even a bit below that.
Now were going to build out some of that John at the FAB meeting with the presentations Todd Daniels our Chief Risk Officer is going to make and Ken and Ill offer additional comments.
But youre right on were trying to produce an appropriate level of repatriation primarily in relation to where our capital ratios are.
Very helpful.
Thank you Kriss.
And then just one quick follow-up on the level of investment spending in the quarter and for the year.
If memory serves you had expected about $0.12 or $0.13 of incremental investment spending in 2014 over 13 can you give us some sense for how much of that was in the 1Q numbers it doesnt seem like much? Well let me start and Eric may want to follow-up the $0.12 you mentioned was what I categorized as our headwind to increase in operating earnings per share on account of several investment related matters.
One was lower yields than we started with at the beginning of last year because at the beginning of last year we put a lot of money into U.S.
corporates in the first half of the year so we had a very good start on yield.
This year we pulled back the second half of the year to invest more in JGBs we restarted the U.S.
corporates in the first quarter and I want Eric to comment on that.
But a combination of lower investment yields in the first part of the calendar year 2014 compared to 2013 of somewhat lower level of new cash flow because of the decline in the first sector sales also impacted that $0.12 estimate and a very little of it related to investment operating expenses.
I appreciate that.
I was actually referring more to this modernization type project youve got underway particularly in Japan Im sorry.
All right.
The so called CVP project yes I had estimated about $0.12 a share for that one also.
So thats where I got confused but Yes sorry.
And my only point is it it doesnt look like expenses really picked up very much at all in 1Q and just wondering if there was any portion of that $0.12 already incurred in 1Q?  Yes there was.
What we budgeted in estimating the $0.12 for CVP was in fact incurred in the first quarter of 2014.
So our spending is inline with the budgets that underlie the financial estimates.
Okay.
But is that more back half of the year loaded like is it $0.03 a quarter it doesnt seem like its $0.03 a quarter?  I think it ramped up some I don't specifically remember what it was by quarter.
But I believe spending was scheduled to ramp up some throughout the year of 2014 but it was going to level out in 2015.
So it was like zero in the first quarter and $0.04 in the second third and fourth.
Okay.
We have some in the first.
Okay.
Thats helpful.
Thank you Kriss.
Okay.
Tom Gallagher Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Hey Kriss one quick follow-up for you and then I had one on U.S.
margins.
So the increase repatriation amount can you just talk about planned uses of that? Is there the opportunity potentially upsizing the buyback for this year or should we think about that more for paying an upcoming debt maturity? No weve already provided for the upcoming debt maturity.
We took care of that with the bond issue last year.
This additional repatriation increases our financial flexibility I thank it gives us more confidence; were likely to hit the high-end of the target on the share repurchase this year.
But quite frankly we just decided it last week and I really hadnt had a chance to simulate it with treasury team here.
But it increases our confidence; we can hit the upper-end of the share repurchase target.
We already did for $15 million worth of $800 million to $1 billion target for the year.
And we could have done more in the first quarter but we want to keep some dry powder in case of market developments later in the year.
So I dont know Ken do you have any The only thing Id add to that its more likely that the additional repatriation will be warehoused in Columbus in the U.S.
segment but we have more than adequate dividend capacity if we elected later to send it to the parent company.
And the only other comment that I want to make is that were well aware of how much shareholders feel about additional capital and that theyd like to see it in the share repurchase.
So balancing that with what weve always said about the dividend will be continued the way we operate going forward.
Okay got it.
And then my question on the U.S.
is margins are strong there looks like it was coming from the reduction in the size of future policy benefit reserves meaning there were some kind of reserve drawdown.
Was that related to lapses or can you provide some color on what happened there? Yes this is Ken.
It was related to the change in persistency thats what largely drove it and you saw that also reflected in higher debt amortization.
We also had lower operating expenses particularly general operating expenses and you know weve commentated last year in the third quarter that were undertaking some initiatives here to enhance our operations particularly in an enrollment initiative right now.
And we haven't seen a lot of expenses associated with that yet.
So you will see that increase as the year progresses.
And the other thing that Id note in there is you may remember last year we made some changes to our retiring medical and to moving from a defined benefit to a defined contribution plan for new hires.
And as a result a lot of that savings flows through the U.S.
segment and its actually those savings that we had anticipated using this funding the initiatives that we are working on the U.S.
So again our expectation would be that we would see higher benefits in the next several quarters which is typically our seasonal pattern and we would also see greater spending on some of the strategic initiatives that we have outlined.
The two highest priorities within those initiatives I would say other than the enrollment that I mentioned are the Everwell exchange platform and then building out the sales distribution at Aflac group so that we can better penetrate the large case market.
Thanks Ken.
And just one last follow up is the expectation that the higher [lapse] is that some you view that is a one off or are you seeing any evidence that thats going to remain alleviated for a while? So we always see at a bit its always a bit lower in the first quarter but its something that we are carefully monitoring.
We continue to see some mixed economic data and we dont know to what degree that maybe driving but its something that we are watching very closely.
Okay thanks.
(Inaudible) I am sorry Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Hey good morning.
I have a question on excuse me the U.S.
sales data and the change in recruiting agents and producing agents.
So I believe this is the first quarter and about a year and half youve got an increasing recruiting agents but the producing agent count continues to decrease rather sharply.
Could you just comment a little bit on the dynamics of the producing and recruiting agents thank you? Let me start and I am sure Dan is going to want to add something to this as well.
We have really been focusing the carrier side of our sales force meaning our sales management throughout the country to focus on the recruiting activity and the 3% increase that we saw in the first quarter I think is just the reflection of really our redoubled effort on recruiting.
What we need to do is the process is to bring new recruits in and then have them convert to producing agents then you get that through training and mentoring through the coordinator system.
And thats the number that we are really focusing on turn.
And we havent seen it yet but we have seen other activities for instance improvements in the number of new payroll accounts that we think will lead to better our producers as we go forward.
Yes.
I have been now watching the U.S.
and getting very actively involved for the last nine months or so.
And we have created some short term disruption for what I believe will be long term growth.
The segmentation of the why we do business to where our field force is concentrating on a 100 or less our core broker which is more brokers to deal with what I call community brokers and then national brokers.
And our ability to pay higher commissions to the management team for 100 or less I think it is going to be very positive now.
The way we do it is not on first year commission and some renewal commission.
So they actually wont see the benefits until January of next year I mean you just call out me telling I am going to give you $100 versus hand it to you.
And so it has a little slower impact even though we are (inaudible) statements of whether it will be and things of that nature.
It takes a little while but I do believe that there is great opportunity there for us.
And I think the second quarter will still be down slightly I want to be clear on that.
But I think the second half I am expecting it to be up.
All that being said we have got to execute well we have got some problems on our own that we are working on but I am encouraged because I believe with change comes disruptions but it also offers opportunity.
And I believe there is lot of opportunities for us and we are working hard on doing that.
And I believe ultimately we will prevail and see stronger growth especially in the larger than 50 accounts because I think our individuals will continue to grow that business for us but it would be actually easier to grow accounts 50 or more if we didn't have the field force but Ive got to deal with the field force who are so important to us and they are key to our growth.
But I have to work that through and its just taking sometime.
But I have been in talk to the vast majority of our field force Id say 80% to 90% of the field force I have been in front of talked to and Im encouraged by what Im seeing but its slower than I wanted to be.
Im frustrated that its taking longer than it is.
But I do believe the fundamentals are there.
And I could talk on and well cover it in more detail at the FAB Meeting but just because of a lot of financial questions you want Ill limit to that but if you want to ask more Ill be glad to answer.
Okay thanks Dan.
And I appreciate that commentary.
If I could just ask one follow-up maybe just on Japan and Japan Post.
And I believe this quarter in terms of talking about the Japan Post ramp up this is the first time that just in your prepared script youve linked the 2% to 7% increase in sales with the ramp up of sales representatives in the 3 000 Japan Post offices.
Im just trying to reconcile those comments with Tohrus comments that the roll out was slightly slower than expected.
So maybe if you could comment on that and if there is actually specific number of Japan Post cancer sales thats built into that 2% to 7% guidance number? Thanks.
Absolutely there is a number built in to the 2% to 7% with Japan Post but they have specifically asked us not to discuss that and we have to hear to their request.
But most definitely and I believe they will achieve what theyve told us.
I generally found that to be true with all Japanese corporations.
I saw it with [Daechi Life] I saw it with the bank channels Ive seen with all the groups that weve dealt with that they come very close to meeting or exceeding the objectives that they set forth.
Saying that remember all the new objectives were reset effective April the 1st with it being New Year for them.
And so I do expect them to make those numbers because they are committed to it.
They see it as a positive for them not just for us as they make decisions on what they are going to do in terms of going public or whatever.
Its a big benefit to both us and to them.
So go ahead.
And I would also remind you that the number of post offices almost doubled in March.
So thats just occurred where we went from 1 500 post offices to 2 980.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Good morning everybody.
Going back to that last discussion about the cancer product sales in the Japan Post I guess Im still having a little difficulty reconciling a few of the previous statements where on the one hand we have the 2% to 7% growth guidance sale impact.
On the other hand I think what was there in the past was that the Ever product and the impact from the August launch would bring by the second half of this year.
And I believe Dan you also said that the cancer sale roll out would be gradual.
I just I have a very difficult time getting to the midpoint of it 2% to 7% growth range without much more substantial growth in cancer products.
And I would be thankful for any additional color you could provide there? Well what I would say is the actual number of counts or post office does not totally give you a number because one office in (inaudible) is bigger than a 100 offices in other location.
So total number of offices wont directly tell you but symbolically it begins to set the pattern for what we're talking about that we have doubled and that were on the road to do this.
So the other thing that Tohru mentioned is it is not just the post office but also the sales organization of the post office eventually selling with us.
And when it will come online and how they will do it.
Theyve got which is compo; they have any normal sales force that is very very strong in dealing with the consumers and exactly how that will come on.
And all I can really tell you is that what Ive said in the fourth quarter is is that we absolutely expect to achieve that number.
And I wish I could give you more color on it but thats part of doing business in Japan.
As you may know or not know one time people of other companies discuss something that was told not to do and it created enormous problems between the two companies.
So we dont want any problems because we are working so well with them and appreciate.
But we let me be clear we dont get to go at our pace we have to go with their pace but their pace and our pace are the numbers reflected in the sales target that I gave you.
Okay.
And then one follow-up on U.S.
sales and persistency usually when I look at persistency coming down its some indicative of more of your shopping around in the turnover and you got sales hoping to be a bit lower because youre not benefiting from lower persistency on the other hand.
Could you maybe add some color there on whats hindering sales at this point?  Say that one more time?  Sure.
In the U.S.
Im looking at persistency rates come down a bit even one year just for seasonality.
Usually when you see some lower persistency it often comes hand in hand with a bit more sales just because you see more turnover in accounts and more shopping around and we havent really seen that in the sales number this quarter.
So I was curious maybe you could give us a little more color on whats been holding back sales?  Well part of it is recruiting from the year before.
There is no doubt in my mind that the recruiting has hurt us to a great degree because there is enormous correlation between the number of new accounts I mean the number of new recruits and the number of new accounts they open.
And so Tom our Director of Sales has really been concentrating on ramping up the number of people that we hire.
Also one of the things is simply putting in these new programs in the separation; weve had meetings that have disrupted us to a degree in terms of just short-term sales.
But putting excuses aside I just dont think weve done a good enough job and we got to do better.
Im not going to go blame a bunch of stuff except us.
And were going to pick it up and weve got little problems here and there on everything but I believe the economy is no worse than it was if not a little bit better.
I believe the accounts over 50 theyve adjusted pretty much and there is no major change there.
It seems to be a little bit of a problem with the accounts of 50 and less because they are uncertain to some degree and of course thats where we write the majority of the business.
But overall I think we should be doing better and Im going to be expecting more in the second half.
Okay.
So there is 0% to 5% growth target or guidance youre selling to?  Im still believing that.
And as I said Ill live for the fourth quarter; I mean second quarter to be down slightly.
So I dont want to mislead you.
But I will be hard lived with it and end up saying I warn you now you dont have to tell them they know it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Eric Bass Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Just had a couple of follow-ups on sales in Japan I guess first could you talk a little bit about the product cycle in Japan and if thats shortening at all? And I guess I was surprised a little bit by the sharp sequential drop off in medical sales I would have thought this product in many ways is opening a new market for you you still might have had a little bit of a longer sales cycle? And then secondly just on Japan Post do you get any sense that agents maybe waiting to push the cancer product until the post exclusive product is rolled out later in the year? I can answer these but Im going to let Japan answer whoever wants to.
Yes.
So first about the medical products of U.S.
instead the product cycle is shortening in Japan.
And yes that doesnt but might be true to some extent but we dont see the big difference in the paired which the new product continues to be successful though.
I think we are still within a period in which the sale is still good.
Like I said we see some decline from the fourth quarter last year to the first quarter of this year but still close to 20% of the growth is a good number and we will be maintaining that growth rate as long as possible.
The competition is very hard.
That is true.
But I think we are very competitive in that and we will be able to maintain our share in that.
And those are the -- Japan Post if its true that Japan Post wants to see the special product for them but that doesnt hold them back from selling the existing products now.
They now as I told you before that from the April 1st the sale of the cancer product is included in their annual business plan.
So they have a good reason to say make efforts to the sales of cancer plant today.
So if we can offer them the new product specific to them that will be nice.
But even now theyre working very hard to expand their cancer business within their network.
Yes.
And one thing this is Paul one thing Id like to chime in and say were spending a good bit of time and resources on helping Japan Post get up to speed.
As you remember back when we did the bank channel years ago they took extended effort and that was for a smaller roll out in terms of total number of branches in the initial roll out.
Here were rolling out a massive number of larger offices in a short period of time.
In fact as of April 1st weve shifted 52 people over to work full-time on helping the post offices get up to speed.
Now we know thats going to be a gradual ramp up.
Were continuing to stay in front of each of the post offices and their sales staff to make sure its most effective process.
In terms of product development the reality is that we continue to keep our product development cycle moving as fast as possible.
As you think about weve launched our medical plan last year we planned to launch another third sector plan this year if at all possible and we continue to negotiate with the government and other people to make sure that happens potentially in the latter half of this year.
Great.
Thank you for the color there.
And if I could just ask one quick one on the investment portfolio just what are you targeting now as a percentage of Japan cash flows to invest in U.S.
dollar securities for 2014? And then should we still assume that thats primarily corporates at this point or are you expecting to broaden asset classes over the course of the year? Before Eric says that this is Dan I want to make one other comment.
With products changing so fast which they are faster thats the reason we need these additional funds for the computer update because things are changing new builds and whistles on products new ways of doing things.
So I just want to reiterate as you talk about these changing products and moving faster thats one reason the expenses have gone up in our IT systems to be able to do that.
So now Eric sorry.
Thank you Dan.
No problem.
Relative to 2014 looking at the entire year and primarily focused on the Japan portfolio we would expect as a percent of all Japan cash flows the U.S.
dollar allocation to be in the 35% to 40% range.
It could go higher depending on market conditions and our tactical decisions but we would expect that and the remainder to be in JGBs.
Relative to new asset classes we are ramping up those efforts.
Thats always been part of our plan.
I would acknowledge because of the volatility last year particularly with interest rates we focused most of our resources and attention there.
So the concept of the outsourcing in new asset classes did get slowdown but were ramping up those efforts again this year.
Having said it takes much of research of different asset classes the ones that did our risk appetite.
it takes working with our partners and accounting and finance to get prepared for that.
So in terms of actual implementation in new assets something could happen but it would be more likely to be towards the end of the year but I would certainly expect in 15 youll hear more about that with respect to new asset classes.
And finally on the U.S.
dollar allocation and I think last quarter we talked about this and certainly at FAB Ill talk about this no its not going to be all in corporate securities.
Weve broadened out our investment capability and were thinking more tactically around markets.
So when we think of the U.S.
allocation corporates fundamentally are very sound as you all I think would appreciate and agree from a credit standpoint.
However from a spread standpoint technically speaking theyre at all-time lows and continue to get tighter because demand in the market for yieldy assets is very very high but because of that we're actually using a mix of U.S.
treasury securities and corporates in our U.S.
dollar allocation with the thought being wed rather leave some dry powder for a later day.
Now were going to meet our NII budgets which we have an eye on as well.
But within that were going to use our discretion in terms of where markets are spreads are yield levels are to make tactical decisions within the asset class of U.S.
dollars or frankly between U.S.
dollars and JGBs as well.
So that will develop through the year.
But I think Id give you a good roadmap of our expectations absent any big volatility in the market that could change that.
Great.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Our next question comes from Steven Schwartz Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everybody.
Looking at U.S.
sales some follow-ups.
Dan can you pin point maybe what territories or what areas of the country that you found to be most disappointing when looking at the sales in the quarter? I was -- I'm sitting here trying in my mind break it down.
I think four are up and four down.
I know the Southeast is down and I know that the North is up the way we do it.
I cant remember any of the specifics.
But I do know those two particular ones.
I know the Pacific the number of recruits is way up and we're expecting that to continue.
Weve had a couple of management changes so that impacts us too but I'm trying to think of anything else.
But it's more this -- I look at more of the states than I do the territory itself and what's going on from that perspective.
And the place we've got to see growth is got to be California New York Florida Texas.
The same states you think of in terms of winning of Presidential election is the big states with the population.
It's not going to be the Georgia.
I mean house penetration and population as South Dakota they are not going to carry us over.
They're great state and theyre good example whereby to look to and that area of the country is doing very well.
So I can mention them when I think about it.
But it's got to be these metropolitan areas that have got to pull us for future growth.
So Ill give you more detail about at the Analyst Meeting.
Ill break that out getting broken out for you where you know more but I dont know more than that.
That's okay.
Just I know you don't want to lay blame anywhere but youve got to wonder about I got wonder about whether.
Also on the number of agents so one thing I noticed maybe you could talk about this and I realize license sales agents isnt a key parameter but they did fall dramatically despite the increase new including.
And I'm wondering if there was a change there if there was a calling or anything like that going on.
Steven this is Ken.
We did have a calling we periodically do parts our agent records for non-producers we also had some that failed to take required training and those are naturally purged as well.
So it would kind of a -- it was a clean up if you will of the ranks.
And we don't do it annually but we do periodically and because that it does get noticeable.
Okay.
I'll stick to my two.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein Evercore.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Kriss if you said it I missed it I apologize but what is the ratio of repatriation to expected year-end FSA earnings with the 127 billion of repatriation? We had a gain on the reinsurance transaction during the FSA fiscal year ending March 31 2014 that will be included in FSA earnings.
The repatriation of a 127 billion lets say it's probably going to end up being around 80% again including the reinsurance gain but it will be close to a 100% excluding the reinsurance gain.
Again I want to reiterate that are more focused on SMR than FSA earnings but those are the order of magnitudes of the repatriation relative to earnings.
I guess the question then becomes and maybe this is early and youll talk about it more in a few weeks but I mean are we heading upon a new normal or a higher kind of standardized level for repatriation that we should be thinking about? Well I hope so its my intend to continue to decrease the difference between the FSA reported earnings and say U.S.
statutory earnings or U.S.
statutory earnings are increasing at a more rapid pace than FSA earnings.
I talk someone on the road about the difference between FSA and staff to reserves and how the more conservative assumptions and the like underlying the FSA reserves and factor we have to post full strength net level reserves on an FSA basis drags down our FSA earnings in the year we write a lot of new business and statutory gives us a little bit of breakthrough than actual technique call pulmonary term.
Weve just seeing significant increases in FSA reserves our stab reserves and I think the stab reserves we are satisfy with those adequate from an economic point of view and probably more than adequate from an economic point of view.
So I am working toward reducing the difference between stab and FSA reserves which improves will improve our ability to repatriate.
Okay.
And then just finally any additional updates or progress on I guess release reducing of statutory stream potentially through internal or external reinsurance agreement? Well we will probably have reinsurance as a significant tool to help us reduce the change in the difference between FSA and stab.
I am going to give you some additional information on FAB about that what progressions are but roughly the projected increase would be about 60 billion yen next year and the difference I think I can use some techniques to manage that difference down and to allow more of that to follow FSA earnings.
But again I am focused on the SMR more than earnings but I am trying to manage our ability to repatriate up by creating a stronger and a more stable solvency margin one thats less subject to volatility and I think the reinsurance agreement we did this year the other actions we took to minimize volatility and SMR give you an indicator as to why we were comfortable increasing repatriation this year and that is one of our management objectives.
Okay thank you.
I think we are coming to the top of the hour.
So we have time for one more question.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks good morning.
I just wanted to go back to one of the responses to previous question Dan I think in describing the U.S.
sales force and all the dynamics.
You may have comment I will try to pair phrase it something like it would be easier to grow in the 15 over market without the field force.
And I didnt quite understand what you meant by that can you describe that in a little bit more detail? Sure I would be glad to what I am saying is that our field force is key to our business and as we deal with larger accounts broker dont like to necessarily deal with our field force but our field force is what build our company we have to keep them.
So there is conflict between brokers and field force so m to constantly keep the field force writing the accounts of 100 or less especially new people that are getting into business.
And I can give you this is example its kind corny but its a true story I mean true example if I have said to you I am going to take you fishing and I am going to take you and you can fish in this lake and you will catch all the fish you want.
But none of them will be bigger than a pound but youll leave with all you want or Ill take you over here and you can fish in this lake and you can catch a few but there is a 10 pounder in there almost everybody wants to go to the lake and try to catch the 10 pounder.
Thats true with the sales force you hire a new person they all want to go land the big account but the fact is they will make a live in and they will be able to eat and do what they need to do on writing the one pounders or the small accounts.
And trying to create that wage creates conflict and trying to keep them to do that.
Because most of the time our associates are going to do great with a 50 or less or 100 or less.
But they are going to land the big ones but brokers tend to land the bigger ones.
So is a disruption before we just say go out and call on anything you want do whatever you want to do.
And now we try to move them to the younger through call me smaller accounts through compensation.
So thats what Im talking about.
Got it okay.
And then my follow up is just if I think back to the history of Aflac U.S.
when you had these sort of issues in terms of managing the field force.
My recollection is it always seems to take a little bit longer to correct than maybe some of us think.
Do you think that is potentially the case this time? Or do you think that you could really get on top of this and really get to that 0% to 5% for this year? Well I wouldnt say it if I didn't think it.
I think its going to be top.
But Ive always found a way to win and my age makes no difference Id say Im working harder and actually Im enjoying it.
There is lot of the strategies were putting in place are doing were carry over for things that have been going on in the past.
Its just the changing environment its not that our strategies were wrong its just things are changing.
So I still believe that I tell you I mean thats why I said the second quarter is going to be down slightly.
So Ill give you more inside into that at the FAB Meeting.
But again I believe with change comes opportunity.
And I wouldnt swap our U.S.
market in our potential for anybody else out there.
I mean I dont want to be in the life insurance I dont want to be in a property casually.
I still think our markets got the biggest potential.
And I think were in the right place.
And final thing I would say is were ending this call is we are a written trashy business either.
The one thing thats the undercurrent of everything were doing right now is look at the margins look at the business were riding were making sure that what we put on the books is good business and you dont have to come back three years from now and say yes you wrote all those sales increases.
But they didn't end up being profitable and were not doing that.
So were being cautious and making sure as we take on new markets and new things that we ultimately protect the shareholders and make sure we give a good value to the policyholders.
Understood.
Thanks Dan.
Alright.
Thank you everybody for joining us.
If you have further questions (inaudible) and we have to see you all at our Analyst Meeting on May 22nd.
Thanks so much.
Bye bye.
This concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
You may disconnect at this time.
Welcome to the Aflacs Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations</strong> Good morning and welcome to our second quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Paul Amos President of Aflac; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO Aflac Incorporated and President of Aflac U.S.; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us from Tokyo is Tohru Tonoike who is President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Before we start this morning let me remind you that some of the statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those that we discussed today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact our results.
Now I will turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter.
Dan? Good morning and thank you for joining us.
I am very pleased that we met and in many cases exceeded our financial targets for the second quarter.
Let me begin today with an update on Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
For the quarter pre-tax operating earnings in yen were up 2% on a reported basis and 0.8% on a currency neutral basis.
Our focus remains on growing the sales of the third sector products which were up 4.5% for the quarter and in line with our annual sales target.
For the six months third sector sales were up 3.2%.
Sales of the first sector products declined 20.3% for the second quarter which was down somewhat more than we had anticipated.
Third sector sales grew sequentially over the first quarter primarily reflecting an increase in cancer insurance sales from Japan Post.
The number of postal outlets selling our cancer insurance rose from 1 500 to 2 980 in March 2014 and has remained at that level as of June 30 2014.
We were very pleased that at the end of June Kampo was known as Japan Post Insurance Company received FSA approval to sell Aflacs cancer insurance.
Kampo began selling our cancer product last week through their 79 outlets that employ approximately 1 200 sales agents.
Another important aspect of our agreement is the sales education and training support that Kampo provides to post offices selling our products.
This support which includes sales practices in compliance helps expand our reach to agents selling our products.
Looking ahead we believe this alliance will further strengthen when we rollout the exclusive cancer product for Japan Post.
Pending FSA approval we anticipate introducing this new product later in the year.
We remain encouraged with our growing partnership with Japan Post Holding and we believe this alliance will gradually but steadily benefit our cancer insurance sales.
With respect to third sector sales we have seen the contribution from traditional agencies slowing down and we have developed partnerships with new channels that help offset that decline.
These channels include Japan Post and we are making gradual but steady progress with advancing our sales through the postal outlets.
However the second half of the year will present us with difficult comparisons due to the medical product we introduced in August of last year.
Taking these factors into account we anticipate third sector sales for the full year will trend toward the low end of our expectations of 2% to 7% increase.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operations.
In the second quarter Aflac U.S.
pretax earnings were up 5.7%.
As anticipated our second quarter sales results continued to be challenged declining 8.2%.
For the first half of the year new sales were down 6.4%.
You recall at our May Analyst Meeting I told you that I was laser focused on a number of initiatives we are implementing to improve sales.
We have spent a lot to time evaluating the market and our business model.
We determined our sales model is not at as effective as it was in the past it needs to be enhanced.
As such we are implementing tactical initiatives centered around better performance management and competitive compensation and is more closely tied to our cooperate goals.
These measures are designed to more effectively link sales management success to Aflac success.
First we are enhancing compensation through an incentive bonus for our districts sales coordinators the first level of sales management who are primarily responsible for their own personal production and training new sales associates.
On July 1 districts sales coordinators began receiving a bonus based on new sales written at small businesses or under hundred.
If it proves to be to effective which we expected to be we will use it again next year.
We believe its vital to ensure all levels of our sales hierarchy had the potential to earn the best compensation in the industry.
Second we made the decision to eliminate the commission based position of the state sales coordinator.
To better manage our state operations we have introduced the new position of Market Director.
Market Directors will be salaried with the opportunity to earn sales related bonuses.
We believe this will enhance our performance management and better align their pay with the new business results.
This change will be effective on October the first of this year.
Further we think this approach will allow us to more effectively and consistently manage the execution of the U.S.
sales strategy over all state operations.
This is especially critical given our strong brand the rapidly changing marketplace and the expanding distribution that includes broker and career agents.
From a sales perspective changes of this magnitude will be disrupted in the short run and it takes some time to gain traction.
These changes are not without cost.
We currently estimate that the quarterly costs related to these U.S.
sales initiatives will be around $0.02 per diluted share beginning in the fourth quarter 2014.
We will finalize 2015 expense estimates for these initiatives in our budgeting process and they will be reflected in the 2015 guidance that we will provide in October with the third quarter earnings release.
Given these changes in the sales results in the first half of the year we now expect 2014 sales to be down 4% to 8%.
Now I will provide you an update on the consolidated financial performance.
Operating earnings per diluted share excluding currency were strong rising 4.3% for the quarter and 5.4% for the six months.
I will remind you that the second half of the year we expect to see increased expenses on various initiatives in both the U.S.
and Japan.
As such we currently expect that the 2014 operating earnings per diluted share on a currency neutral basis will be up 3% to 4% for the full year.
On an operating basis our second quarter annualized ROE was 21.3%.
Based on our year-to-date financial results we expect to meet our annual ROE target of 20% to 25% excluding the impact of currency.
We remain committed to generating strong capital ratios both on the RBC and the SMR on behalf of our policyholders and bondholders.
Although we have not yet finalized our statutory financial statements we estimate that our second quarter 2014 RBC ratio will exceed 800%.
Additionally we expect that Aflac Japans estimated second quarter SMR will be about 800%.
You will recall that at our Analyst Meeting in May we raised our profit repatriation estimate from 100 billion to 127 billion.
By tomorrow we will have repatriated 131.4 billion.
As such we have the utmost confidence in this years plan to repurchase $1 billion of our common stock.
For the first half of this year the company purchased more than 515 million of its shares.
For six decades Aflac has been delivering on the promise to be there for the policyholders when they need us most by paying claims fairly and properly.
While I am pleased with our financial results I wont rest until sales are better reflected in Aflacs full potential.
So now I will turn the program over to Robin.
Robin? Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations</strong> Thank you Dan.
I would like to go over some second quarter numbers this morning starting with Aflac Japan.
Beginning with the currency impact for the quarter the yen weakened against the dollar 3.3%.
In reference to top line in yen terms revenues as reported were up 0.7% for the quarter.
Premium income declined 0.4% in the quarter.
Reinsurance lowered premium income by 2%.
Excluding the impact of currency revenues were up 0.4%.
Excluding the weaker yen in the quarter on Aflac Japans dollar denominated investment income net investment income rose 5.8%.
In terms of quarterly operating ratios the benefit ratio to total revenues declined over last year going from 61.5% to 60.6% in the second quarter.
Excluding the impact of the weaker yen the benefit ratio for the quarter would have been 60.8%.
Reinsurance had a 50 bps positive impact on the benefit ratio in the quarter.
Additionally the benefit ratio improved in the quarter due to favorable claims experience in our cancer block as well as typical seasonality which usually increases as the year progresses.
The expense ratio increased in the quarter to 17.7% up from 17.0% in the second quarter of 2013.
The pre-tax profit margin increased during the quarter going from 21.5% to 21.7%.
Excluding the impact of the yen the pre-tax profit margin for the quarter would have been 21.5%.
With the expansion in the margin pre-tax earnings increased 2% in yen terms.
And excluding the yen in the quarter pre-tax earnings would have been 0.8%.
Now let me turn to Aflac U.S.
Total revenues rose 1.3% in the quarter and persistency was 76.4% slightly up compared to 76.3% a year ago.
And looking at the operating ratios the benefit ratio for the quarter was 41.1% compared to 49.1% a year ago.
The operating expense ratio increased slightly going from 31.4% to 31.6%.
Pre-tax operating earnings increased 5.7% in the quarter.
Now turning to investment activity for the quarter let me start with Japan approximately 26% of the new cash flow was invested in JGB at a weighted average of 1.32%.
During the quarter 74% or $1.5 billion of the new cash flow was invested in U.S.
securities for a weighted average yield of 3.02%.
As a result total new money yield in Japan for the quarter was 2.58% up 59 basis points from March 31 and down 44 basis points from a year ago.
The portfolio yield was 2.85% at the end of June down 1 basis point from March and 16 basis points lower than a year ago.
Turning to few other items in the quarter non-insurance expense was $51 million compared to $48 million a year ago.
Parent company and other expenses were $19 million compared to $18 million a year ago.
On an operating basis the corporate tax rate was 34.5% compared to 34.4% last year.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share were $1.66 compared to $1.62 a year ago.
The weaker yen decreased operating earnings by $0.03 per diluted share for the quarter.
Excluding the yens impact operating earnings per diluted share would have increased 4.3%.
Lastly let me comment on and reiterate some of the statements Dan has already made.
We have tightened our range for our 2014 objective and now expect a range of 3% to 4% increase in operating earnings per diluted share.
For the third quarter if the yen averages between 100 to 105 we would expect operating earnings to be in the range of $1.38 to $1.47 per diluted share.
Using the same currency assumptions for the remainder of the year we would expect to report operating EPS of $6.16 to $6.30 per diluted share for 2014.
Now we are ready to take your questions.
But first let me remind you that to be fair to everyone limit yourself to one initial question and only one follow-up that relates to the initial question.
We will now start with the first question.
Carol? Randy Binner FBR Capital Markets your line is open.
Hi great.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a question kind of higher level about U.S.
sales.
I appreciate all the commentary on the various initiatives regarding mostly incentives for managers but other structural changes.
But I guess my question as you know youre not the only one weve seen maybe bumpy sales kind of in your segment of the supplemental health market in U.S.
And so is there something going on from a macro perspective from your perspective meaning the economy how things are changing in certain regions you have or is it Obama care.
What is it from a macro perspective thats maybe causing some of this headwind? Well we spent a lot of time trying to analyze this.
And I believe that  its our  weve been doing business basically the same way for 50 years.
Our structure is paid absolutely same way and what weve always said the founders going back to my dad and others was it the agent does well everybody else up the structure does well.
And its gotten out of proportion to some degree.
And we needed our districts to make more money and we needed to make sure that everyone was aligned to where the company did well the others.
And I think thats our problem and I think weve addressed that.
Im not so much worried at this particular time.
I will say that there is still is on certainty with people trying to figure out and there is no one just tearing the numbers up and terms of sales growth in our particular sector no matter of what.
But I think we can do much better and I think focusing them on that will allow that.
Ill just give you an idea.
At our state level one of the problems we have is when a person comes in and was taking over state they because it was an independent contractor status.
They would take home such high expenses that it was hard for some people they ever take that position.
Now were going to pay everything and our state sales coordinators will be the highest paid or were going to call the market directors now will be the highest paid in the industry.
And we dont have to worry anymore about anyone being able to take on the expenses were going to cover that.
And over a three-year period it should break even for us.
But that will make a big difference.
It means not only can we hire internally which is the way we want to do it.
But we can hire externally.
If there is someone else we want to talk to we can talk to them whereas before we couldnt talk to them because there was no way they could take on those expenses that were in the hundreds of thousands of dollars.
So I think its position us correctly in the new environment were in and Im very pleased with the attitude of our state people and their willingness to adapt they get it they understand that the company has to do well and they have to do well.
And I just believe long-term this is going to be very effective for us and I still believe that market is huge and has great potential.
But until everything goes into effect there is still is uncertainly in the marketplace as people look for it to happen.
I guess a follow-up there so your answer is you think its tactics and thats very clear.
But then does that mean that do you know whatever this Obamacare distraction has been.
Do you feel like are you through the worse of that kind of people getting more organized and how they approach that and maybe getting closer to make buying decisions? Well everyday its in the press about is this going to pass or is that going to pass or can they ask that all long that once you got putting in it was never going away that they  you can argue anyway you want but the idea that it will ever go away I just dont think will happen because youve got to get the Republican President or you have got a get  if you got a Democratic President you have got to get 60 people on the Senate side.
And I just  that is not something they can  is likely to happen.
So we will just have to wait and see but there is still uncertainty and as long as thats going on we will have to wait but I think it is beginning to  I think the worst is probably over but there is still a lot of people that are waiting and seeing.
Saying that is I am not going to use any of that as an excuse to why we shouldnt be up and I expect us to be up.
Alright very good.
Thank you.
John Nadel Sterne Agee your line is open.
Hi good morning everybody.
Maybe a couple of quick questions.
One on Japan and I guess I will phrase it this way Dan perhaps I am reading too much into the commentary in the press release and you talked about gradual this morning but not long ago you talked about the post-relationship and Kampo as a game changer and now it seems you are really tempering expectations there? Now we are looking at the full year third sector sales being maybe at the lower end of your outlook but you already knew the back half of the year was going to be a tough comparison.
So I guess if you could help us understand whats changed there? That would be helpful.
This is Paul.
I will start and then I will let Tohru chime in.
Ultimately we had hoped that the first half of the year will be slightly better than where it is today.
And I will let Tohru talk about some of the reasons for that.
When we gave you an update at FAB we have data as late as the month of April that gave us better indications of some things that would have happened in the second quarter that we thought would produce overall better results.
We do see Post is improving.
Post in the first quarter did not meet expectations but in the second quarter we saw that moving in the right direction and we believe that will continue.
But as Dan stated earlier the headwinds that we face due to the launch of the medical plan in August of last year will make the second half of the year substantially more difficult to overcome than the first half of the year.
Tohru do you want to chime in on the specifics around the corporate affiliate agencies? Yes.
For the second quarter our largest disappointment was the sales by our large corporate affiliate agencies.
And particularly the sales posted employees to our customer companies.
So in April typically the date had that solicitation to the new employees of our customer companies which were very good.
So that was  the result of that kind of affair was in line with our expectations more or less but in May and in June when our corporate affiliate agencies tried to solicit existing employees the sales are less than we had  they had expected.
Thats where the largest disappointment came.
In addition to that we had some disappointment with the sales with independent and individual agents.
And that impact is largely offset by the growth of our sales to the large non-exclusive agents  agencies.
So thats the reason why that we have lowered our expectation for the year is somewhat changed.
And that is quite right that the Japan Post services can be a game changer but Japan Post in the huge organization so it takes time to realize that entire potential on the channel.
So the sales of the Japan Post is improving month-to-month or quarter-to-quarter but still it has not quite reached that full potential of the channel.
So I think thats our situation of the Japan sales.
John I want make one more comment about the game changer.
It is a game changer.
It is a game changer and it was the only outlet that was left they could possibly be major and go against us in cancer insurance.
When we mailed that outlet down that new distribution channel and took it over and now control it.
That was a major game changer for us.
From a compensation or really production basis it is going to be a game changer.
I believe that I still believe that and I think the numbers will reflect that as we move forward.
These numbers could be larger.
Our job is not to predict what we hope it will but to be conservative.
So I could have given  we could have given higher number but I dont like to ever disappoint.
Ive said this before and Ill say it again were very not very good at projecting sales.
Everybody else predicts revenues but we would like to predict sales is 13 weeks and its the best we know.
But there is enormous variance and how they do that.
And so Ill continue to monitor that but I feel Japan posed as exactly where we wanted to be right now.
We were  I didnt like first quarter as much but I do like second quarter and I do like what July is looking like and going forward.
So Im very pleased with that.
So let me be clear on the phone if nothing else Japan post is a winner and Im thrilled with it.
In Campo and the rollout of the product is the unknown what will happen there.
But they are committed and we are committed and I feel good now the individual are agencies and the corporate agencies are challenged.
Weve seen consumers move away from writing business at the worksite or buying at the worksite thats why weve done the shops thats why were doing other things thats why were adding these new channels because we do see consumers move in that direction.
Thats our challenge and what we have to find ways its not so many of the new employees its the all employees who have had the mail outs for many times and that thing going on for many years now.
And we will continue to monitor that and word toward that.
Okay.
And then I appreciate all those comments and in my follow-up question its sort of unrelated Im just curious after you take this 131 billion back to the U.S.
or the remainder of it I suppose.
How do we think about the impact on a pro forma basis for your SMR ratio in Japan? How much is that come down and then related to that is just the question back half of the year expenses being higher.
Is that simply a matter of timing you were slower to spend in the first half or is there something truly incremental about those expense levels.
John this is Ken.
Let me start off and Kriss may want to add something to this.
First on the SMR the proper repatriation estimate for the number of 131.4 is fully reflected in the SMR estimates of around 800 that we announced.
Excellent got it.
Already reflected in there.
As far as the expenses go for Aflac Japan wed have expected to see their earnings more front loaded this year in terms of our total forecasting and modeling and part of that is just related to the expected infrastructure expenses that we talked about last year with our third quarter release in our guidance is the head wins for instances.
And then clearly the restructuring of the state position from a mission-based position to a salaried position which starts in October is something new but also would result in higher expenses in the fourth quarter.
Okay so its  but aside from that $0.02 in 4Q the rest of its really just the timing.
Yes and Id also point out too that we have benefited in the first half of the year from lower benefit ratios than we had in prior periods.
If you look back youll see that generally the second half benefit ratios for both Japan and U.S.
are higher than they are in the first half of the year.
So wed expect them to increase.
Okay thank you very much.
Yaron Kinar Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Ken going back to your last comments on the expense ramp up in Japan if I remember correctly the CVEP program was supposed to be about $0.12 of a headwind this year I think by looking at the G&amp;A in Japan today we see about $0.01 maybe.
So just want to get a better understanding of the ramp up process are you still expecting those $0.12 to fully materialize this year? And how much of a success that would end up being forfeited this years ability to maybe come out with products at a faster pace? I guess I have two questions in here.
One being the expense load and ramp up of the CVEP and two being kind of that impact on the ability to come out with products at a faster clip which I think was also built into the sales expectation number for this year originally and that that has since come down slightly? Well I will let Paul address the second part.
Its clearly a shorter speed to  or shorter time to market or faster speed is something that we want to accomplish in Japan.
That speaks to the kind of the nature of the long-term corporate value enhancement project but we dont  there is really no expected change in the emergence of those expenses related to our spending in Japan.
In terms of the ability to launch products quicker that is one of the primary goals of CVEP.
Currently we are working on multiple different initiatives.
One of those is the new business process.
The new business process is the single largest element that we must work on in order to bring products to market faster.
And so I feel like we prioritize correctly what we are doing there.
It is going to take a period of time in order for that to come together but I feel confident that we are trying to move things in the right direction.
That said as we continued to expand our channels and we continue to work with groups like Tohru mentioned with the non-exclusive agencies its essential that we would be able to simultaneously fix whatever we need to in order to compete in the marketplace today while also focusing on what the long-term solutions will be for what Japan is as a market in the long-term including the cost efficiency to make sure we are maximizing our profit levels on our products.
So I think a little while back can you talk about maybe coming out with another medical product in Japan this year is that still a possibility? We have talked about an additional third sector product this year.
That being the revision of our cancer plan.
And we are currently working through the final details around that with the Japanese government and internally.
Thank you.
Steven Schwartz Raymond James &amp; Associates your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
Just some follow-ups.
Dan the corporate affiliate agencies thats been a problem forever and ever and ever maybe there is nothing to be done there but what can you do with the individual agencies? Well I think that we continue to look at different aspects of the way they are operating and try to run more ads for them that we have done.
We have done better training but there is some we eat away a little bit by adding distribution channels to the situation like with the banks.
It does impact individual sales to some degree when we do that.
So its been the new channels to me that would offset it more than anything else but Tohru would you like to comment or make any  have any comment I should say? Sure.
Dan you are right.
So the individual agents will continue to be the important part of our distribution channel.
There is no question about that.
However there are some other channels which are growing faster than the individual agents.
The biggest one of such growing channel is the large non-exclusive agencies.
So like Dan said we are focusing more on our business results large non-exclusive agencies other types of distributors such as the Japan Post.
So on a comparative basis individual agents  we are now shifting away from the individual agents but they will continue to be producing as much as they are doing now I think.
I think what I would say about it is its a stable block and we will continue to grow it but we are going to where the consumers are going.
And the consumers are moving more towards other places and we are trying to make sure that we are there for them to fill those needs and thats very important and what we will continue to do.
But we do care about our individual agents.
We do constantly focus on that.
We have contest we want to grow it.
But that is not where we see the real growth channel going forward.
Okay.
And then a little move to the U.S.
as follow-up I get that the market directed to move from state sales coordinator to market director I get that I am not getting the compensation to the DSCs I mean I get trying to incentivize them to go the right accounts and what have you but are you implying that these people dont make enough money (indiscernible) out their selling? Well what I believe is that we have more district sales coordinators than a lot of our competitors.
And we need to focus on making sure that they are making the money we want them to make.
And I would like to see them  I would like to have strong districts that are making good living and we promoted a lot of people.
If they got renewals they make very high numbers.
But when they are coming on they need more front money and so we are trying to concentrate on that and making sure that they are able to grow their business.
What we have done over a period of time is we made some adjustments  an example would be we might cut in a new level of management.
And that means that we have cut the commissions back a little bit to take that into account.
Now at that time the districts were for it we were for it but you take a little bit away and take a little bit away here it begins to hurt their income.
So by adding this back we are now getting them up to the level that they were in 2008.
And I think ultimately will benefit us.
We have always said that the district levels are the key to our organization that and the associates.
And so trying to make sure they are high paid is very important to us and we want to make sure that happens  continues to happen going forward.
And we think this cements that and allows us to really grow the business because they are the ones training the new people.
And we have got to hire more new people and that requires a lot of time and effort on their part.
And they are going to be working harder and so we want to pay him more for working hard.
So pay these guys more or their sales like the same level of sales they can live and then got out and use the extra time to train? Well they dont  lets be clear almost every time they are selling they are not selling by themselves.
They are taking somebody with them.
So they are splitting the commissions on what they are doing when they are out training a new person.
So we are trying to make sure that they are better positioned.
And frankly this I think will put us in a position where we will be able to hire more people at the district level and really grow the business long-term.
But shifting some money to them is the exactly what we need to do.
Okay.
And then one more if I may very quickly California I dont know if you ever all looked at this but California AB 1962 with regards to MLRs for dental have you guys looked at that? I dont know anything about that now but I will find out and get back with you.
Alright.
Thank you.
Jimmy Bullar with JPMorgan your line is open.
Hi good morning.
First on the changes that you are making in the U.S.
you mentioned in the release its about $0.02 expense per quarter in the fourth quarter should that actually stay about the same next year or would it like go up or go down.
And then how long would it take for you do get a return on this I am assuming its like 1% to 2% headwind on earnings growth next year but you could let me know if thats right or not.
And then on the share buybacks you  obviously your capital position is fairly strong so I am just wondering and you stayed with the $1 billion guidance but just wondering why you did less in the second quarter than that would have  than we would have expected given your $1 billion guidance? This is Ken.
Regarding the expenses related to the change to the salary position we will know a lot more in the next couple of months as we budget because of that amount about half is related to the state operating expenses that Aflac will now be responsible for.
In addition it also includes the overhead that it will take to manage in effect 66 tele workers around the country plus their whatever administrative staff they have a secretary or admin that we also pull in on.
So we will have to tighten down those expenses but thats the best estimate right now.
That  so we are layering on fixed cost.
There is an expected offset with the reduction in variable costs because we will now  you should see total commission expense as a percentage of revenues declined going forward because we are not going to be paying out renewals for that level of the hierarchy any longer.
So the more that we sell the shorter the payback period in terms of that reduction in variable expense offsetting the fixed expense that we will be putting on the income statement.
But did those end to sort of the  the net of the higher fixed minus the variables its more like an ongoing expense at least initially as opposed to one-time type expense? Right.
It is more  you will see in year two meaning the second 12 months you see a larger offset because you always would see sales coordinator position will still be  they are in effect  they are still earning commissions on business that they had written all the way up to September or will write all the way up to September 30 of this year.
So the drag is really greater in the first year than it would be in the second.
Got it.
Yes.
On your follow-up question on share repurchase when we buy we want to make sure that we are buying in a manner that we are acting as a responsible investor.
We try and buy below the VEP which we did in the second quarter and we have generally been able to do.
We want to stay on track for the full year amount of $1 billion and trying to be as opportunistic as we can.
So really it was just some judgment on our part based on market conditions volumes the way the stock was trading so on and so forth but we still again expect to be at the $1 billion mark for the full year.
We will have to see how that plays out between third and fourth quarter.
Okay thank you.
Jay Gelb Barclays your line is open.
Thank you.
I want to circle back on something that was mentioned earlier in the prepared remarks with regard to Japan Post I believe it discussed rolling out the new Japan Post specific policy.
My sense was that was going to be done earlier.
So can you give us some perspective on whats the delay there? We will let Tohru answer.
Tohru? The cancer product now designed specifically for the Japan Post our plan was I dont know if we had sold the market that we were going to introduce that product earlier.
So we are working on that.
We are working exactly as we have been planning.
So I dont seem to understand exactly what your question is? Sure.
Well my question is my understanding is its a pretty simplified product.
So I am not sure what the delay is in terms of launching it specifically within the Japan Post system? Well this is Kriss.
I will just kick in.
It  we have to get it approved by the FSA.
We had a party day that pretty much the anniversary of the new agreement which would be around October 1.
We didnt anticipate implementing it prior to that time.
So if you could have the impression we were doing it earlier it was somewhat inaccurate but we are more or less on track with our original plan to get the JP specific product in their hands hopefully around the beginning of the fourth quarter.
Okay.
And then my follow-up question is also on Japan for the third sector growth outlook for 2015/2016 at fab you discussed the range of 2% to 8% given thats been narrowed for 2014 I would like to kind of see if you can update your confidence level in achieving that target for 2015/2016? I think its too early.
What we dont know is the uncertainty of Japan Post and specifically how Kampo will do with the new product.
At the end of the third quarter we can probably shed a lot better light on that.
And I dont believe those were actually our sales projections I believe those were data that was placed into Kriss financial projections they shared with you.
And clearly articulated the time that they really are meant to be projections but meant to be ranges of assumptions that we would articulate.
When we get to the end of this year we will do as we typically do and give out our sales guidance for the coming year and I feel like that time well be better able to give you forward looking guidance.
Alright look forward to that.
Thank you.
Credit Suisse your line is open.
Good morning.
I just wanted to ask you a question about the change in the seasonality the earnings pattern here.
If I go back three or four years ago you saw what was an emerging pattern of 4Q earnings to be lower based on what you guys had flagged as timing of higher expenditures in 4Q.
And now youve definitely seen that spill into 3Q and it started happening last year and it seems to be more pronounced now.
So youre getting a very big delta between what youre earning in the first half of the year versus second half of the year.
And you flag some of the higher back half earnings and I got that when you gave our guidance.
But the order of magnitude here is a lot bigger than Id have guessed looking at a 15% earnings drop sequentially that youve guided too.
Can you peel back the onion a little bit and talk about how much of that is expenses how much of that is benefit ratio change that weve seen on some of these newer products and anything else you could elaborate on.
Tom its Kriss now I try to address that yes weve  we have had lower earnings in the second half of the year than the first half and then part of its due to the reason youve identified sometimes or cautious on our expense initiatives and first half of the year and as weve moved through the year and gained more certainty that were going to be able to achieve our annual EPS guidance then we kind of loosen the strings a bit and particularly in the marketing promotion area may have a larger expenses thats been true gosh for years now.
Not just last three or four years may be more recently in Japan.
The other thing that has gone on traditionally Tom is that we  now that weve had all of the stock stuff in place for years and years weve had to define the process of evaluating our claim reserve estimates in the like with the auditors and weve got a particular process employees where we evaluate certain reserves in the third quarter and certain other reserves in the fourth quarter.
And so the historic patterns reflected some reserve strengthening for example in closed blocks like dementia due to lower interest rates than anticipated in the reserving in the like.
And weve had some reserve strengthening over time for that that tends to occur to some extend the third quarter some extend the fourth quarter.
So thats been more financial reporting seasonality than an actual benefit reserve seasonality.
This past year we did a reinsurance agreement in the fourth quarter that actually improved benefit ratios in the fourth quarter relative to the third.
Well have the reporting of that reinsurance fully integrated into our benefit ratios by the end of the third quarter and well give some improvement in the third quarter benefit ratio in 2014 compared to the third quarter of 2013 Robin identified that was about 0.5 point improvement in the benefit ratio in the second quarter of this year and will be again in the third quarter and the fourth quarter that will be in the system well have direct comparability so that improvement will go away.
When we do have some seasonality claim patterns that we reflect in the financial statement more today than we used too we used to be able to move them out a little bit.
And these days the accounts are more sensitive to smoothen anything else so we have to go more with the actual seasonality of things and claims tend to be lower in the first part of the year as people they tend to back load business for the doctor in the actual claim processing partly due to deductibles and the like but partly just due to the holidays and other seasonal patterns.
So thats a long answer to a pretty short question but I will focus more on the accuracy of the annual estimates.
And we did because we exceeded our six month EPS increased  exceeded our annual high end of the range of 5.4% was greater than our annual range of 2% to 5%.
And because of some of the anticipated expenses we have talked about earlier we decided to tighten the range within the 2% to 5% going to 3% to 4%.
So thats some of the rationale behind it.
Got it.
Thats helpful Kriss.
And so if I am interpreting your answer correctly this is a pattern that we will continue to see each year directionally much greater order of magnitude in terms of first half earnings and second half earnings in part normal higher expenditures but also the benefit ratio that change being more directly reflective of claim payment patterns is that a fair way to put it? Yes.
Thats a fair way to put it.
I do want to just say that I specifically mentioned dementia reserves and we have had a couple of increases over the last couple of years.
But right now we dont anticipate doing that in the third and fourth quarter.
We will have to look at the interest assumptions behind the reserves.
But with the stabilization of investment yields in the total portfolio and the like we dont think we have got that kind of interest rate exposure we had in the past that led us from reserve increases so thats a favorable thing.
Okay.
Thanks.
Christopher Giovanni of Goldman Sachs your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
I guess first one just on in terms of medical sales clearly alluded to the tough comp in the back half of this year but I want to think about the sustainability of the quarterly sales we have seen so far year-to-date? Sustainability in quarterly sales.
Medical.
We have seen beginning last year very strong sales in our medical product.
We anticipated that the medical sales would sustain slightly better growth in the first half of this year than we originally saw.
That said we still believe that the product continues to go in a strong manner.
We are focused on the standard medical plan not our gentle ever plan at this time.
But we believe those products will continue to sell well in the coming quarters.
That said it is the reality that competition continues to put out more and more new products all the time.
And one other things that we have to continue to do one of the key reasons I mentioned earlier our desire to be able to launch products in a quicker manner is the sustainability of the length of time that a product last in terms of the boost of new sales.
So we are constantly monitoring that.
We do believe we still have continued tailwinds with our medical plan for some period of time but we continue to notice that but amount of time that a new product is lasting is slightly less than it used to be.
Okay.
And then for Dan sort of a silly question but given your recognition that you wont be growing kind of at the pace you have in the past the increased focus you have on capital generation returning capital to shareholders I guess why continue to have such an emphasis or heavy emphasis and probably you stated goals around sales targets? As we are a sales company and I expect sales to grow.
And there I believe it sets a trend for us to what ultimately earnings are going to be and persistency is in that number and other elements.
But I want to  I believe that ultimately when the agent does well everybody else will do well.
And thats what we have got to see happen here.
And I am committed to fixing this in the U.S.
and believe we will be able to do it.
I put my reputation on the line of trying to fix this and thats what I get paid big bucks to do is to fix things.
And I understand thats the way it works.
And I am willing to go out on a limb and telling I expect third quarter sales to be down but I want to see an upward movement in fourth quarter and I know thats quick knowing how hard it is to make changes sometimes.
But thats where I am focused and thats what I will continue to do.
This is Kriss I pushed down a bit so look we got to have the revenues to build the house  the house of earnings.
And we have done well at building earnings over the period and sales are an important part of the earnings for Aflac U.S.
The premium income for Aflac U.S.
is probably at least 25% first year and about 75% renewal.
In Japan its not is big its little less than 10% first year premium 90% to 92% renewal.
But I need that growth in first year premium to help grow the revenues overall if we are going to get earnings growth.
So thats why its important to keep getting new sales and to keep pushing on new sales estimates and the like to achieve our overall financial objectives which include growth in earnings per share.
Thank you.
Carol we are coming up to the top of the hour so will have one last question please.
Joanne Smith Scotia Capital.
Your line is open.
And I have always thought that those were the guys who had the biggest existing books of business? We only call we didnt get any of your question.
You just came on in the middle and start back and so we can hear which question is Okay.
So can you hear me better now? Now we can.
Okay.
So if my recollection is correct my understanding of the state sales coordinators has been they are the ones that have the largest historical in-force book and that they are earning most of their money on the commissions that their getting from that.
And those arent going away.
However if those state sales coordinators do not chose to pick on the new position of Market Director what is the outlook for those books of business and is there the potential for them to move those to some other carrier is in fact they move to a different  a different company as a rep? First of all its not their book of business is based on the people that work for our company.
I was a state sales coordinator for 10 years so I will understand totally and now you cant move it that easily.
So thats one half.
The other thing is we have not had a single state sales coordinator not go for this new program.
Its going to be the highest paid in the industry.
They like it.
There is a wonderful retirement  for your salary we put out the equal amount for retirement.
So they like it very much.
But they will become more of a manager than just a sales manager.
They will look at profit they will look at all aspects.
So I am very pleased with we had them sign confidentiality agreements and we introduced this a week go and to adjust them in six locations we had them at the exact same time took away all cell phones we are very pleased because  we are pleased of where we offered them.
This is a great deal for them.
It is a great deal for the company because we now can be a united front.
We dont have 50 independent people running state organizations or in this case 65 go in different directions.
We will unite with the strongest brand thats out there in the insurance industry and be able to push forward with what I believe will ultimately drive our sales.
Now again I warned you the third quarter but the fourth quarter in going forward I have been in sales its in my blood and I just think we can do this.
So we will wait and see but thats where outlook added now.
Okay okay Dan.
Just as a follow up very quick so the first quarter you are looking for an uptick is this something that you think is I mean as  this is not like a major change that would be disruptive for an extended period of time is that what you are suggesting that people are on board that now they are going to be directed towards what the overall objective of the company is which is to bring in the sales of the core small business employer for some of these agents that are not going after the large cases etcetera.
So you think that this is something that can get implemented and it could be back to business as usual by fourth quarter and we should start to see some improvement then? Well one reason I am optimistic about an uptick in the fourth quarter was it was such you are right in fourth quarter last year.
So I didnt like our sales last year so thats the reason that I am encouraged about that.
I dont want to be too optimistic in terms of it not being somewhat disruptive.
Remember all these people are used to being independent contractors.
So its a change of the way they have operated.
But we think that we can mold the way we are going to do it in a way that they are going to like it and it will be less disruptive for them but any time you change jobs and this is a change in job there is some disruption but I think the districts making higher money in between is going to help offset the disruption because here these districts are as we are announcing this making more money.
So they need to be out there selling because we have only guaranteed it through the end of the year although I hope will possibly continue it if it works.
So while we have got this disruption at the state level we have got this enormous positive thing happened at the district level which I think will help drive sales.
So thats why I am encouraged.
But look I am an internal optimist when it comes to sales.
I dont want to overstep it but as I said I will be very disappointed if I dont see an uptick in the fourth quarter.
And then going forward I expect to see improvements.
Okay thanks very much Dan.
Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations</strong> Carol I think we are out of time.
If anybody wants to follow-up with more questions I and my colleagues will be available in Investor Relations and thank you for joining us today.
Goodbye.
This does conclude our conference for today.
All participants may disconnect at this time.
Thank you.
Welcome to the Aflacs Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Ms.
Wilkey you may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our third quarter call.
Joining us this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO of Aflac Incorporated Teresa White President of Aflac US Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us today from Tokyo are Paul Amos President of Aflac and Tohru Tonoike President and COO of Aflac Japan.
And before we start let me remind you that some of the statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of Federal Securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those that we discussed today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that can materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some brief comments about the quarter and our operations in Japan and in US and then Ken will provide further details about our activities in the quarter and our EPS guidance.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Let me start by saying I am very pleased with Aflacs financial performance for the third quarter and for the first nine months of the year.
I am even more pleased that our financial strength is allowing us to deploy more capital to our shareholders.
Weve made it in many cases exceeded our financial targets for the third quarter.
Notably with nine months under the belt we are well positioned to increase operating earnings per share about 3% to 4% for the year before the effect of currency.
At the same time we continue to anticipate operating return on equity will be strong and exceed 20% excluding currency.
Now Id like to comment on our operations starting with Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
Although third sector sales were down in the quarter.
We  like the initial results weve seen so far in October which are up 20%.
As weve previously communicated we anticipated third sector sales for the full year will come in at the low level of the expectations of 2% to 7% increase.
While fourth quarter comparisons will be challenging we continue to enhance our distribution opportunities and offer in Japan which I believe will benefit our sales.
On the distribution side I am very happy with the expansion of Aflac Japan allies with Japan Post.
The strategic partnership brings together Japan Post the largest nationwide distribution network in Japan with Aflac Japan the industry leader in cancer insurance.
As many of you heard at the Analyst Meeting in Tokyo last month Taizo Nishimura President and CEO of Japan Post Holding announced expansion of the postal outlets selling our cancer products effective October the 1st we will move from 3000 to 10 000 postal outlets.
We also talked about their plans to increase the number of post office selling at Aflac cancer products 20 000 by the end of 2015.
I think both Aflac Japan and Japan Post can enhance their synergies by working together to provide cancer products to large group of consumers who regularly return to the postal outlets to help their insurance needs.
Turning to products as the pioneer of cancer insurance in Japan I am excited about our two newest cancer policy offerings.
On October 1st Aflac Japan introduced a cancer product for the sale exclusively for Japan Post in [Kempo].
This new cancer product was designed to provide essential cancer related benefits it also complements the insurance coverage that is available through our products at Japan Post already offers.
On September the 22nd we introduced another new cancer insurance product available for sale through all of our distribution channels.
This new cancer product provides intense coverage including additional outpatient benefits in treatments multiple cancer occurrences benefits while offering better pricing at many age groups.
Turning to Aflac US I am very excited about the changes that we have made in our management infrastructure.
Youll recall that following the third evaluation of the market and our business model we told you that we were going to be laser-focused on implementing a number of tactical initiatives designed to improve the US sales and thats exactly what weve been working on.
These initiatives which were effective October the 1st are primarily geared to our sales force day sooner or around competitive compensation that more closely tied to corporate goals and better performance management capabilities.
We had expected short-term disruption in the third quarter as a result of these changes but things went very smoothly and Aflac US sales were relatively flat in the quarter just down six tenths of a percent.
These new sales initiatives have generated excitement both at the career channel side and the broker side.
Although it contain to take a period of time for the sales results to follow the initiative.
I can already see that were making progress and this tells me that were on the right path.
Last quarter youll remember we thought sales for the latter half of the year would be down 4% to down 8% however with sales in the third quarter essentially being flat we now believe sales for the second half of the year will be positive which means sales for the full year will likely be in the range of down 2% to 4%.
And while Im not happy with the prospects of sales being down for the full year I believe were heading in the right direction and I expect to see an increase in the fourth quarter sales.
Were also working on ways to extend our sales momentum in 2015.
Let me just say that I feel better about the opportunities in the US and Japan and our ability to effectively execute on our sales strategy over the next year.
I also understand the importance of returning capital to our shareholders while Ken will provide you more details.
I want you to know that I am pleased with the action of the Board of Directors to increase the quarterly cash dividend about 5.4% effective with the fourth quarter of 2014.
This marks the 32nd consecutive year of increasing our cash dividend.
I also believe weve listened to our owners and understand the importance of growing our cash dividend and our share repurchase amounts.
Our capital strength has given us the confidence to increase our 2014 share repurchase objective from $1 billion to $1.2 billion of our common stock.
Additionally it is our current plan to repurchase $1.3 billion of common stock in 2015.
Let me leave you with this thought.
Youve already heard me say that my job is a balance of interest of all stakeholders I think we did a good job for that this year just as we have in the past and I believe were going to do it again next year by delivering on our promises to our policyholders and returning significant capital to our owners.
Now Ill turn the program over to Ken.
Ken? Thank you Dan and good morning everybody.
Id like to give you a little more background into our forecast and the assumptions we have used to set our 2015 earnings objective.
But first let me begin with just a brief recap of 2014 and how that relates to the initial guidance we set for this year.
You may recall that a year ago we established 2014 objective of increasing operating earnings per diluted share by 2% to 5% on a currency neutral basis.
At that time we identified several headwinds that influence the establishment of our earnings guidance.
Frankly based on those headwinds and other forecasting assumptions which tend to be conservative we would have not been surprised if this years full year earnings would have been toward the lower end of the 2% to 5% range.
However as the year progressed some favorable trends emerged our benefit ratios in Japan and the United States have been better than expected and in addition our consolidated operating tax rate has been lower than we initially projected.
As a result of those favorable developments we narrowed our earnings objective in July based on the financial performance for the first half of the year we no longer felt the low end of the range was a reasonable expectation.
However we anticipated that benefit ratios would be higher in the second half of this year for both the U.S.
and in Japan and we also expected expenses to be higher for the last six months of the year particularly in the fourth quarter.
As a result we reset the full year earnings objective to 3% to 4% in July.
Although operating earnings per diluted share excluding currency have increased 5.4% for the first nine months we continue to believe the 3% to 4% range is a likely outcome for 2014.
The reason is that we still expect to see higher benefit ratios in the fourth quarter and expenses will be higher as well.
Thats especially the case in the United States as we begin to absorb the cost of the change that we made to the U.S.
market director position.
As we indicated in our press release last night we have established an objective for 2015 of increasing operating earnings per diluted share 2% to 7% on a currency neutral basis.
I would first note that our earnings objective is predicated on 2014 earnings per share increasing 3% to 4% for currency.
Because we express our objective as growth rate our guidance is influenced by the rate at which we grow earnings in 2014.
In short faster growth this year somewhat challenges growth rates in the following year.
For our two reporting segments we continue to anticipate the type of operating stability that youve come expect from our business.
At Aflac Japan we currently expect to see operating ratios that are consistent with the three year average ratios that Kriss presented to you in May.
With first sector business accounting for a higher percentage of enforce premiums in 2015 we expect to see a higher benefit ratio next year compared with this year.
However it will still be in the 62% to 64% range we previously provided.
We expect the operating expense ratio to be fairly stable to a bit lower next year.
As a result we expect the margin for Aflac Japan to be somewhat lower than it is this year but again well within the stated range for our expectations.
For Aflac US we also expect to see operating ratios in 2015 that reflect the stable and predictable nature of our business.
We are assuming that the benefit ratio will be higher next year than our full year projection for 2014.
However even with an increase in the ratio we still expect it to be at the low end of the 50% to 52% range we communicated in May.
We expect the expense ratio on the other hand to be above our estimated range for next year.
As we discussed in July we made significant changes to the structure of our sales force and those changes impact our expenses.
I would note that we are maintaining very good budget discipline in the U.S.
segment and if not for the field force changes our expense ratio would be at the low end of the range next year.
We currently anticipate that the U.S.
pretax profit margin will be towards the middle of the range we provided in May.
Id point out that while we have a very large block of stable and predictable business we clearly dont have a crystal ball and there are many assumptions we need to make when setting an earnings objective.
Its always been our practice to use realistic yet conservative assumptions and given the conservative assumptions I just reviewed I think a starting point for next year is to assume that operating earnings per share may grow towards the lower end of the 2% to 7% range excluding currency.
However just like 2014 and in years past its certainly possible that we could see earnings emerge more favorably as the year progresses.
For instance benefit ratios may not rise as much as were currently assuming.
Clearly the ongoing challenge we faced for the last couple of years has been generating better revenue growth through new sales in both markets as well as dealing with the low interest rate environment.
As you heard from Dan we believe the activities we want to take in both segments will help produce better sales in the future.
But improving sales is a process its not an event and the results from these activities dont happen overnight.
Additionally as you likely know it takes time for sales to be reflected in earned premium and earnings but in the meantime I do want to emphasize that the underlying nature of our business remains very sound stable and profitable.
Next I would like to briefly comment on our sensitivity to the yen-dollar exchange rate.
Although Aflac Japan makes up about 75% of our consolidated insurance earnings about 50% of our total company earnings come from dollar sources.
As weve done in the past when we released fourth quarter earnings we will provide you with our expected currency sensitivities to per share earnings for 2015.
In the meantime we do believe our earnings will be a bit less sensitive to the weaker yen next year than they have been in the past.
I think its also noteworthy that our consolidated GAAP equity is not significantly exposed to foreign currency risk.
For instance although the yen weakened 7.4% from the end of June to the end of September our consolidated GAAP equity excluding unrealized investment gains declined only 1.1%.
One of our key objectives is to insulate shareholders equity from currency fluctuations.
Finally we are very pleased that our balance sheet remains strong and that our capital ratios exceed our minimum targets.
You will recall from our comments at our Analyst Meeting in May and in September that we expect that profit repatriation to be in the range of 110 billion yen to 150 billion yen for 2015.
Based on our current forecast of our FSA financials and the solvency margin ratio as well as our most recent reinsurance transaction we now expect repatriation to be at the high end of that range.
Please remember as weve noted in the past that repatriation could change depending on increases in interest rates credit spreads strengthening yen or significant credit losses but we do expect significant profit repatriation in 2015.
In addition as we indicated in last nights press release we are exploring the possibility of increasing the frequency of capital transfers from Japan to the United States pending the completion of our internal governance process.
This will enable us to better manage liquidity in the U.S.
segment and at the parent company as well and as I mentioned at our Analyst Meeting in September were currently working on a multi-year capital management plan.
As a part of that plan we are making good progress toward a retro session agreement with the reinsurer to assume some of their risk.
Retro session of risk to an existing Aflac entity would improve the economics of our reinsurance program by effectively lowering the cost of reinsurance for Aflac.
Given our strong capital position and expected cash flows from Japan we believe we are in a good position to return capital to our shareholders through increased dividends and share repurchase and we look forward to producing good results for our owners in 2015.
Now Id like to turn the program back to Robin.
Thank you Ken.
Thank you Dan.
To be fair to everybody please remember to limit your questions to one initial and one follow up that relates to your initial question.
So now well be glad to start taking your questions.
Thank you.
At this time we will begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question is coming from Mr.
Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Your question is up at this time.
Hey good morning everybody.
Ken could you talk about the reinsurance agreement that you announced in this quarter I think it was 55 billion yen and obviously its smaller than last one you did but how else does it differ from that and from the initial deal? Steven its actually very similar to the initial transaction that we executed in September of 13th in fact its really an extension of that same agreement.
Youll recall that what we had done is exceeded the premiums and the risk related to a portion of an old block of medical business a close block that about a third of the hospitalization benefit and with this agreement we simply took the percentage up to 50%.
So we added another 17% or so to that on the same block of business.
Were currently in the process as I mentioned is a multi-year capital management plan reinsurance will clearly be a part of that plan and I think its quite possibly.
Youll see another transaction in 2015 perhaps more than one and in looking at that we would be exploring other blocks of business for possible transactions.
Ken just a follow-up on that then.
Is this what the same reinsurers or there is still no statutory benefit? Thats correct.
But as when we go through the RFP process we are taking getting quotes from multiple parties and well continue to do so in the future.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Let me just comment that the statutory treatment is something that we have under consideration and its true that in the first agreement we did not take any statutory reserve credit but were examining the conditions that would be required for us to qualify for such a reserve credit in the future.
Okay thanks.
Our next question comes from Nigel Daily.
Your question is up at this time.
Great thanks and good morning.
Just couple more in the reinsurance side.
Given there is more of a capital rise and rate reductions are into transactions.
Any push back that youre getting from the FSA on those tough transactions going forward? And also just a commentary on increasing the frequency of the capital transfers.
Just hoping to get some additional color there as well as to how about the plans are? First with respect to communications with the FSA regarding reinsurance.
We made sure that they were fully briefed on the transaction that we executed in 13 and the same was true with this transaction as well thats a fairly straight forward simple transaction and we make sure quite frankly even if its not only the FSA thats briefed but also our lead regulator in Nebraska the Director of Insurance there as well as the regulator in South Carolina for instance as well.
With respect to the capital transferred Nigel remind me what the frequency? Just regard to increasing the frequency what are they trying to say that you kind of moving towards more of a quarterly repatriation plan or kind of whats planned there? Well the starting point is to simply get cash more frequently on a more consistent basis quarterly would be ideal but working through the final governance for that right now to determine the best way to do it.
Historically what we have done is we have transferred a portion of the profits that were earned in a given fiscal year for Japan and we are investigating the options for moving not only our earnings on an annual basis but also moving a portion of retained earnings as well.
But that would be entirely dependent as weve said before on our view of our solvency margin ratio and our ability to protect our policyholders and also to maintain that ratio in a manner that provides an adequate buffer for risks that affect the ratio above our minimum requirement of a 500% to 600% range.
But we are optimistic we do believe that we can move forward with more frequent transfers that will give us a much better ability to smooth out our cash flows better manage our cash at both Aflac and Aflac Inc.
when it comes to deploying capital.
Great thanks again.
Nigel Kriss Cloninger again.
Im sorry to interrupt but I just want to make it clear that the reinsurance weve done between Aflac Japan and an outside reinsurer is clearly a risk transfer arrangement even though some of the motivation is capital management is not a financing agreement.
It is a risk transfer agreement and there is no question about that.
So we dont anticipate any push back from that perspective from any of our regulators.
Great got it.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Yaron Kinar.
Your question is up at this time.
Good morning everybody and thanks for taking my question.
My first question for Ken I appreciate the color on the year-over-year kind of changes and headwinds with regards to the EPS growth target.
But if I strip out the share repurchase impact I think if I look at the lower end of the target range for 2015.
Earnings are still would be in negative territory and even when I account for higher benefit ratio in Japan I guess I would have expected maybe a little bit more of abatement of previous through prior headwinds to maybe see a little more earnings growth on dollar basis and just hoping to get a little more color and clarity on that.
Well again what I try to get through in kind of that segment commentary related to the ratio the issue that we have frankly as weve got to do a better job at revenue growth.
So even you see relatively low rates of revenue growth both in Japan and the United States the revenue growth is muted a little bit further because of the reinsurance transactions and exceeded premium.
But when you look then within the operating ratios that are going to influence our profitability.
In Japan the business mix is pushing the ratio up a bit at Aflac Japan because first sector is a larger portion.
The expense ratio again should be a bit lower than next year than it is this year.
But it still does pressure earnings.
In the United States weve gone since 2011 weve had an improved benefit ratio and its improved much better than we ever anticipated it would.
Actually when we entered into 2014 we didnt think the improvement would continue and we assume the much higher benefit ratio than weve actually experienced.
So we still expect it to return to some type of normalcy at some point and again we believe that that could begin to happen in 2015.
But there is additional pressure in the U.S.
segment in 2015 because of the added expense related to our going from the commission based SSC position to the salary based Market Director position.
So when you put all that together and again these are we deal with fairly conservative assumptions.
We rather surprise on the upside and the downside but we would see both segments this year producing slight decline  in 2015 potentially producing slight declines in operating earnings versus where we expect them to fall in 2014.
The good news is that we are able because of our capital strength to more than compensate that with very strong capital deployment plans for the latter part of this year and next year as well.
And again hopefully as we saw in 2014 we will see some things emerge favorably vis--vis our assumptions.
And itll also depend on what we are in 2014.
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
And then my one follow-up is on third sector sales actually for the fourth quarter.
Seems like if I take kind of the run rate from medical over the last three quarter and I take the reiterated guidance for the full year.
I get to roughly doubling of cancer sales.
If I modeling this correctly and wanted to just get a sense of if that is roughly how we should be thinking about it and if how much of this growth comes from the Japan Post partnership as opposed to the other cancer products that you launched.
Tohru or Paul.
Tohru you want to start and then Ill comment.
Yes let me start.
Yes youre right.
In order to make the 2% growth for the entire year we will need to basically double the service of the cancer in the fourth quarter.
And thats what we are feeling that we will be able to make it.
So based on that numbers we feel pretty good about the prospects were making at least 2% of the entire sales for the full year.
Let me just follow up and say we knew third quarter was going to be extremely difficult.
We had the August 19 2013 launch of our ever planned.
We had also pre-announced our October 1st launch this year of our new cancer plan so we faced headwinds in the third quarter for both cancer and medical sales and we are confident that going into the fourth quarter especially given what Dan has already announced that we are up 20% so far this month.
We feel very strongly that well finish within the range of 2% to 7%.
And how much of that growth in cancer products do you anticipate coming from Japan Post? We cannot disclose the exact number the sales from the Japan Post but I can tell you the largest part of the growth of the cancer comes from the Japan Post.
Thank you.
Well I can also say that we are very pleased with whats going on with Japan Post and excited about the future growth of it.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from [Seth Wise].
Your question is up at this time.
One question.
If I could  if we could just get us a little bit of granularity in terms of some of the expenses next year curious if you could give any commentary on the cost of the reinsurance transaction or how much that effects gross earnings next year.
And also I believe on the last quarter you mentioned that the cost of the US sales initiatives would be $0.02 in the fourth quarter and then youd give updated guidance on what the impact would be in 2015 perhaps if you could give us a little bit commentary around that that would be helpful as well.
Yeah.
First of all I would say that we really didnt we didnt isolate the expense of the reinsurance of the second tranche of reinsurance for 2015 because were currently working on a retro session agreement again it would effectively lower that cost but what I would say is that was incorporated the cost before retro session was incorporated into the 2% to 7% range we established for next year.
So to the extent that were able to successfully execute a retro session agreement it will help a bit on the margin of lowering the expense and enhancing earnings in 2015.
And I would just add that the cost of the second tranche is proportionate to the cost of the first tranche.
The economics are essentially identical and to the extent that weve seen the cost will later be proportionate or potentially more favorable than the direct cost.
Yeah and the second question related to the cost of the market director change in particular it really hasnt changed its  it may be modestly better than what we had originally anticipated but the estimates that we had communicated in July are really still on.
What I will say and I am really proud of the team in the United States because excluding that our expenses were flat year-over-year 15 compared with 14.
And youll recall my comments that we wanted to try and find a way to mitigate as much as we could those expenses.
And I still think that thats possible that we could see improved expenses as next year develops but we really havent seen any material impact or any material change.
Okay perhaps I am misremembering and I had thought the commentary was $0.02 for the fourth quarter and then maybe updated guidance this quarter.
Its fair to say then that net-net no headwind from the US sales initiatives.
Maybe a little bit more maybe closer to $0.03 a quarter in 15 and its not terribly material and it will also depend on how well we do on a sale side because remember that weve added fixed costs and were taking off variable cost and the amount of variable cost that are removed from the income statement will depend on sales through lower commission expense.
The cost in year two will  the offset will be significantly higher in the second 12 months than it would be in the first when it comes to an offset to the increase to fix expense.
Okay thanks and if I could Im sorry.
Its really materially changed.
If I could just sneak one more and just on margins and I understand 2% to 7% gross margins in the context of normalizing margins in both the US and Japan.
Is it fair to categorize 15 as a normal margin year or it will mix shift continue to cause margins to slightly deteriorate going forward.
No I think again if you look at the expectations that we laid out in May and then for Japan we reiterated in September.
The margins should be very stable year-over-year and again really consistent with what we had communicated at prior meetings on our expectations for a three year period.
Okay thanks for the commentary.
Our next question comes from Mr.
Jimmy Bullar.
Your next question is up at this time.
Hi good morning and most of my questions are answered but just on US recruiting.
I would have thought that trends would have gotten worse given the changes that youre making but the recruiting was up and the agent count declined a little bit less than it declined in previous quarters.
So just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about how the restructuring is going on and do you expect further improvement from here or would the results get worse before they begin to improve.
Well Im very pleased with the results so far.
I thought that would be more disruption as I said earlier because people just dont like change but I have to complement our deal management for understanding that weve got to pay for performance and accept in that as being a way of life and moving on with it.
Same that what I see is I see the fourth quarter is being easier comps than the first quarter and I see the second quarter of next year being the easiest comp.
So I would anticipate us having being up I would like to be up 5% for the fourth quarter thats my goal but I wanted to absolutely be up and thats my goal.
And then I think probably the first quarter will be maybe up flat to up 5 and then I expect at the end of the second quarter to be up.
So I cannot know at least having 5% growth.
Id like to do better than that if we have a new director of sales who came from being in charge of North and South Dakota which is our highest penetration in the country and he is concentrating on accounts of 100 or less which is what weve said weve got to do.
He has also been working on the expansion of our district and regional level which ultimately will increase recruiting.
And I think thats whats taking place right now.
There could be a little disruption that were still unaware of as people are adjusting because it went into effect October 1 but I am in contact with Teresa daily as well as with sales daily about keeping up with how this is going.
And this is a major major change this is in the last my 30 years or 25 years as a CEO this is structurally probably the biggest change weve made to the sales force.
So I dont take it lightly that there could be a few more bumps.
But I am not seeing them as of today I think its all coming together nicely.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
John Nadel.
Mr.
Nadel your question is up at this time.
Thank you and good morning everybody.
Couple of real quick ones does maybe for Ken does the buyback assumption for 2015 that $1.3 billion is that assume any benefits from incremental reinsurance transactions and if so how much.
Not in not transactions in 15.
If that what youre referring to.
When you look at the transaction that we announced that took effect on October 1st that gave us the opportunity to reevaluate the SMR and then reevaluate the capital we feel comfortable deploying for both 14 and 15.
So I would say its good starting point.
At this point it does not contemplate any additional transactions per se that might occur in 15.
Appreciate that.
And then for 2015 you havent had any real discussion about what you guys are assuming in terms of new money yields in Japan and in the US.
I mean obviously here in the third quarter and I guess pretty most of 2014 maybe Im wrong but the investments in Japan have been largely JGBs in this quarter JGBs in US treasuries.
I mean what you are thinking about in terms of new money yields for 2015.
Can we see some incremental investment and maybe credit related assets.
Hi this is Eric.
Couple of comments Good morning.
First as you look year-to-date of our invested cash flows and I mentioned this earlier in the year.
Early in the year we did all the way JGBs because of the nature of our cash flow timing but as you look at overall cash flows now weve put about 48% or so of our Japan cash flows and to US dollar assets and of that allocation about 60% 65% were in US credit and the rest in treasury.
So the credit investments we anticipate it did come online particularly in the second half of the year or second and third quarter.
So they were they are but recollects I have said in the investment grade credit space credits spreads at all-time tight and we did a fair amount of purchasing of credit back in 12 and 13.
So we end up this year on purpose.
Were totally fine with the fundamentals of investment credit we think those are strong as theyve ever been but the technical spreads being so tight make them pretty expensive to buy.
Having said that as were planning for 15 first its important for me to note lets help the Fed raises rates then we have higher yields but we are consumer of the macro environment and thats going to be very challenging.
So we assume in our plan we dont assume necessarily that rates will go up we try to be conservative and come up with ranges.
But what we certainly want to look at going into next year is a good mixture obviously well have some traditional JGB investments that help with interest rate matching and interest rate risk and duration matching.
But to expand not only in investment grade credit but other places as well.
And Ive said this weve seen some disruptions in the market recently.
Weve seen spreads on high yield bank loans some other asset classes start to wide now.
And we want to see that as a buying opportunity.
So as we go into 15 were hoping to be able to take advantage of that and start to get into some other asset classes beyond just traditional investment grade credit but that will be a function of markets where spreads are were not going to chase spreads just in the interest of yield.
We try to work with Kriss and Ken to have a risk adjusted NII Net Investment Income budget if you will and give us the flexibility at the same time to take advantage of those dislocations and invest at a good point in the cycle as opposed to force that investment.
Okay thanks for that.
And then if I can sneak one more in just for Kriss or Ken just thinking about Japan margins I think over the last couple of years and particularly during the period of very strong pace first sector sales particularly ways.
There was a  I guess in a first year if I can characterize at that way sort of headwind on the pretax margin because commission rates were high and I guess those products were maybe a little bit more surplus.
With first sector sales having declined at least in terms of growth so significantly I would have thought we would have been getting some of that back as we looked forward.
Is that in your guidance are you seeing that can you talk about that a little bit.
John this is Kriss.
I will say that the surplus strain effects the regulatory reporting FSA in US stat more heavily than it does US GAAP they were primarily focused on today that just because were allowed to differ a significant amount of the acquisition expenses.
Actually the strain John on the third sector is almost the significant on the third sector it is as it is on the first sector.
One reason is that the cost per policy as opposed to percent of premium are somewhat higher are on the lower premium products and the first sector products have added 10 times of premium that the third sectors products have.
So there hasnt been a lot of relief so to speak on that in percentage terms.
Now in absolute terms clearly as the first sector premiums declined the surplus strain in absolute amounts has declined but cannot on the relative basis.
I want to go back to previous comment that was made and somebody mentioned a 15% margin is kind of normalized thats a pretty low number in my opinion for any kind of normal margin.
Once we re-price the first sector products effective April 1 2013 the margins increased from say unexpected margin over the lifetime of the product given the net investment yields we realized at that time the margins increased from about 10% closer to 20% on the first sector products.
Now we werent able to sell as much product because they werent as competitive versus other financial products into marketplace and that affected us as well as other life companies compared to other financial products issued by other organizations.
So while our margins went up or sales went down.
And our overall margin is affected by the mix of business and I pointed that out in the Feb guidance materials I sort of said okay here it is for life insurance here it is for third sector business.
You got to look at the mix that you anticipate or what we actually achieve in order to get to kind of a so called normalized margin.
But I did want to make the point that the move from about 20% plus profit margin will realized on Japan right now through 15 on an aggregate basis would take a heck of a move.
And I dont anticipate margins will decline near that fast.
Really and looking at our plan in formulating guidance to follow up on that were looking to maintain roughly at 20% margin both this year and next year a little bit higher this year perhaps 20 or just a tad lower next year but again consistent with what wed expressed and basically very similar to what weve seen.
Thank you very much for the responses.
Okay.
Our next question is coming from Joanne Smith.
Ms.
Smith your question is up at this time.
Yes just wanted most of my questions have been asked and answered but just as a follow up to Johns question on the first sector product.
What is the average duration of those products because if I recall correctly theyve had a 10 year premium period or that there was a 510 and 7 I believe? But whats the average duration Im just wondering when we can expect those to start running off if its going to be anytime in the lifetime.
The second question is just with respect to the US and that is on now that were about a year into ACA are you seeing things in the market settled down a bit thanks.
Okay Joanne Kriss here.
Ill take a shot at the first part and then let somebody else comment on ACA.
But let me say I hope we all have long lifetimes and live to see some of the developments in these first sector products.
I will point out that the duration as you referred to relates to the premium payment periods and thats the period for which surrender charges are in effect and we expect very strong persistency during the premium period both because of the surrender charge and because of the fact that a lot of the first sector products we wrote in 2011 2012 came with the advanced premium deposit arrangement or the people paid most of the premiums upfront.
So were going to see strong persistency throughout the premium period on those first sector products.
At the end of the premium periods the surrender charge goes away but on the WAYS product the real optionality of the product kicks in not at the end of the premium period but at an age like 60 or 65 that the policyholders elect when they buy the coverage and thats the point which they have the option to elect to continue the product as life insurance or the claim conversion do a medical policy or to continue it as an annuity certain type payout or perhaps to convert to a care type product.
We have some limited experience emerging on that but its not enough yet to be credible I will say that the tendency that I think weve seen so far is toward inertia where people allow a coverage to continue as life insurance which is the original form but they do have to make an election a couple of years prior to the optionality day and we do communicate with the policyholders regarding the option they have to elect changes to the form of their coverage.
But we havent seen any adverse persistency developed at all so far Joanne.
In that regards so we anticipate that the duration of these first sector products will be pretty long.
Okay so we shouldnt be expecting them to run off anytime soon? You shouldnt now weve talked to you about the impact of the paid up premiums on revenue and well be talking more about that throughout 2015 as we see some of the blocks that are significant start to hit the end of the premium period in 2016 but I will remind you that Ive told you we recognized profit over the term of the contract not over the term of the premium period and so what were going to see is a continuation of the amount of profit per policy but a significant increase in the profit is a percent of revenue because the revenue is essentially going to go away except for investment income.
And would you say that would kick in some time around year 7 or 8? 16 or 17.
Okay that long.
Alright great thank you Kriss.
Okay Joanne just to the follow up on that to John before one other things that influencing next years benefit ratio is I mentioned was mix towards first sector.
The persistency of the first sector products has generally been quite a bit better than third sector even though the third sector is very very high and its actually improved a little bit year-over-year was the third sector has been modestly lower year-over-year.
So thats also influencing the mix of business in the expected benefit ratios.
Okay thanks and then just on the ACA.
This is Teresa.
You asked about confusion in the market I think right now is the regulations are set.
At least for the moment they are set.
You still have employers who are having the compliance and then at the end of the year and then in 2015 you have employees that have to comply.
So I would not say I wouldnt characterize the environment as one where there is no confusion.
But I think smaller employers are opting to public exchanges and then its creating gaps from a product standpoint as well as far as the affordable care act.
Our opportunity is still a great opportunity from an Aflac perspective and so I think our strategic focus of the market and the less than 100 market to focus our field force there and then grow the broker side of the market.
I think our strategy is a win-win strategy go forward.
So I feel good about that.
Okay thank you.
Our next question is coming from Mr.
Randy Binner.
Your question is up at this time.
Great thanks.
I guess Ill just speak up there with the last commentary on Obama care and its clearly Aflac has a big opportunity at least in my mind given the brand awareness to capitalize in the exchange environment and so when you all talk about US sales recovering.
I feel like those two things arent linked.
So is the exchange opportunity not something we should expect to help your sales in 2015 or is that part of the recovery in sales as you hope for in 15.
I think the exchange is of another tool that we utilized as part of our sales process.
I dont know if you recall earlier or last time we spoke we talked about the enrollment platforms and benefit admin platforms many of those platforms are now being characterized as exchanges today.
So weve always been engaged enrollments via the benefit enrollment platforms.
Now we have specific strategies to-date to engage in being on specific exchanges with large brokerage houses and those are the activity that we are doing today that we think will help us in sales go forward in 2015.
And Ill just say were not counting on this national health care plan to increase sales.
I think there is the potential to do that but I dont like to count on that.
We do know that our enrollments when they take it through our exchange increases from 30% to about 42%.
So we have much better enrollment when we do that interestingly enough though those would be in the accounts of 100 or less and they are going to go and buy on the public exchange which can be routed through us.
One other thing I was little worried about was is that our agent will make so much commission on major medical although its a small percentage its a large premium but if you buy through the government exchange which comes through ours its a very low commissioned.
So that means for them to make money they still got to push our products and services.
So I think that will be very beneficial to us and well ultimately give a good return to the policyholders fill the gaps for them and ultimately increase our sales.
Okay.
Understood let me  just on Japan.
Another kind of top down question on sales.
Sensibly this new CEO of Japan Post there to turn things around and it seems like a spin-off/IPO process is still realistic.
Do you have any update on whether not thats going to happen? Proposed next year and if so should we think it as potentially be in a tailwind for sales there.
Meaning that they would have a motivation to sell more product to get more fees to get their earnings numbers up.
I think anyway they can....
any company that it can ultimately increase profits before they go public is going to enhance the shareholder value but you have to understand how private Japan Post is we dont get any information in regard to that.
Those are decisions that they make but we have a very close relationship with Taizo who is the President and whats going on there but were very cautious in making any comments regarding their particular business.
Other than to say what they have done with us and what is going on with slow at first it is now picked up and they are doing very well now and we are excited about 2015 and the future growth there because we think we help to avoid with the products and the services that they offer at Japan Post and this new product will help fill the gaps if they want.
Theyll ultimately make it make consumers buy.
Alright thats perfect.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mr.
[Eric Beth].
Mr.
Beth your question is open at this time.
Hi thank you.
Just hoping you could provide a little bit more detail on whats driving the stronger than expected benefits ratio is year-to-date and why you think that those should normalize next year rather than experience potentially continuing.
In Japan we have seen even though there has been a mix shift we have seen just paid emerged at a lower rate than we had expected as we came into the year.
So its really been driven by slightly lower paid claims than we had expected.
Weve seen a much larger change in the ratio for Aflac U.S.
and again this is a trend that weve seen since 2011.
Paid are increasing slightly.
We have made some modifications to IB&amp;R to reflect our program our initiative of emphasizing the speed of which we take claims because that may stimulate claims to some degree but weve also seen in part because of lower volumes from new sales as well the sales at which relaxation has occurred even though overall persistence has been fairly stabled were seeing a smaller increase in this case declines in the change in future policy benefits so quite simply the additions to US reserves are growing at a slower rate than we had expected.
In all in all that this year especially thats what brought down the US benefit ratio but we do and we dont expect this to hockey stick into shoot right back up to where it was in 2011 or 12 but we would not be surprised if it came back to a higher level than weve experienced in 14.
Got it.
So I mean are you saying any differences in kind of consumer behavior in terms of either utilization of benefits or other turns.
Nothing particular but I think we have concluded that utilization and its not just with our products and at our company but utilization coming out of the very weak economy for the last few years has been lower than normal people have not accessed the healthcare system as they did prior to the financial crisis and I think thats the overall trend thats really influenced our business in the US for the last few years.
Got it.
Thank you.
Alright.
Weve reached the top of the hour so we have time for one more quick question please.
Thank you.
Our final question will be coming from Mr.
[Jake Gild].
Mr.
Gild your question is up at this time.
Thank you.
Could you give us your updated perspective on whether you expected Japan consumption tax increase to go through in 2015 and if you look at what the impact was on sales in 2014 if you have any views on that that would be helpful as well? Ill let perhaps (inaudible) whether they think that it will go through.
The proposal is that it could increase from the current level of 8% to 10% in October of 2015 and for budgeting purposes and in our forecasting we have assumed that that will occur effective with the fourth quarter of 15.
Paul and Tohru can you comment on would you think it will go through.
This is Tohru Tonoike and let me speak first and then Paul may chime in.
That issues is now being heavily discussed in the diet and there is no decision made at this point in time and there is no way for us to know which is more likely well some of in favor of the tax increase and some are not so at this point nobody knows what will be the end result in 2015.
And even if just assuming if it happens we do not anticipate a big impact on ourselves certainly not in the 2014 and not substantial impact on the 2015 either.
I just want to make it clear that its expected that Prime Minister Abe will make a final decision in December and we really wont know anything till then theyre going through the standard process here but as Tohru said we feel that this is not going to have a form of a major impact.
And based on the increase this year if you evaluate the trends do you have a sense of how much the headwind on sales may have been with initial consumption tax increase? We do not see any notable impact on our business coming from the tax consumption tax increase last time.
Thats right.
Thanks very much.
Right.
Thank you for joining us this morning.
If you want to follow up with any questions please call our office and well be glad to do any follow-ups.
Thanks very much.
Bye-bye.
And this does conclude todays conference.
You may disconnect your audio lines at this time.
Thank you.
Welcome to the Aflacs Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised todays conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
You may begin.
Thank you and good morning.
Welcome to our fourth quarter call.
Joining me this morning is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Ken Janke President of Aflac U.S.
Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO of Aflac Incorporated; Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer and also joining us from Tokyo are Paul Amos President of Aflac and Hiroshi Yamauchi President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Before we start let me remind you that some of the statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of Federal Securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discussed today.
We encourage you to look at our fourth quarter release for some of the various risk factors that can materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and year as well as our operations in Japan.
I will follow up and then we will take your questions afterwards.
Dan? Thanks Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
Let me start off by saying that the final quarter of 2014 concluded another good year for Aflac.
I am excited about the incredibly strong fourth quarter sales results in both the United States and Japan and on top of that we have finished the year at the high end of our expectations for operating earnings per share growth.
Let me begin with some highlights related to the Japanese operations.
Aflac Japan's impressive 28.5% increase in third sector sales in the final quarter of 2014 is particularly remarkable to me considering the significant growth follows two years of excellent sales results in the fourth quarter.
Sales of cancer insurance surged following the launch of the new cancer WAYS [ph] product which also included an exclusive product sold by Japan Post.
Cancer insurance sales through all distribution outlets were up an outstanding 176% for the quarter.
This dramatic increase in cancer insurance sales was critical to Aflac Japan reaching the high end of the 2% to 7% annual target.
On the distribution side our traditional agencies have been and remain key to our success.
Additionally I consider our strategic alliance with Japan Post to be enormously advantageous.
This alliance merges the broad consumer access of Japan Post with Japan Aflac's status of an industry leader of cancer insurance.
Tremendous progress has been made in increasing the number of postal outlets that offer our cancer insurance to our customers.
I would remind you that Japan Post has the largest distribution network in Japan.
I believe Aflac Japan and Japan Post will continue to be mutually beneficial as we make cancer insurance available to more and more Japanese consumers.
Our goal is to have a presence in all the outlets where consumers want to make their insurance purchase decisions.
In Japan I think about sales for a 12 month period from October 1st 2014 through September 30th 2015.
For the nine months of 2015 we project a 15% increase in third sector sales.
When you add the 28% increase from the fourth quarter we could be close to a 20% increase over the rolling 12 month period.
Please note that this 12 months rolling period will be the biggest third sector increase in more than 10 years.
We are reviewing fourth quarter sales and the difficult comparisons it will experience in 2015.
At this point we believe sales for the fourth quarter could be down sharply but as always we will be working to find ways to minimize that decline.
At the end of the second quarter we will have more insight and will give you additional guidance on the fourth quarter.
Aflac Japan has also performed extremely well in the fourth quarter with $454 million in new sales or 14.1% increase exceeding our expectations.
The strong fourth quarter sales drove our total new sales to 1.4 billion which is approximately 1% increase.
Which also significantly exceeded our most recent sales expectations for the year.
I believe the changes we made to our sales organization in the third quarter are showing promising results but I am not willing to say yet that the sales have turned around until I see the first half sales results in 2015.
Saying that I am still encouraged and I believe we should be or have an increase of somewhere between 3% to 7% with a target of 5%.
I also want to mention that we have a ground breaking new marketing campaign that I mentioned on CNBC this morning.
Were kicking it off at the Grammys on Sunday.
And on E-Entertainment channel the preshow the Aflac Duck will be the first ever advertising icon to walk the red carpet.
During the Grammys a new commercial will feature the Aflac Duck but it will focus on one day pay which highlights our new accelerated claims payments.
One day pay is an industry first that allows us to process approve and pay in just one day which would be about 70% of our eligible claims.
Through one day pay we expect to pay more than a million claims in 2015.
I hope you all get a chance to see the commercial and the campaign.
I am very excited about it and I think it will set us apart in the industry thus increasing our sales.
You can also go to our website and see more about it.
Having covered operations let me turn to a topic on those top of mind with our shareholders and thats capital deployment.
I believe dividends are our important components of the value we provide to investors.
In 2014 our capital strength enabled us to increase our cash dividend to shareholders in the fourth quarter for the 32nd consecutive year.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at the rate its generally in line with the earnings per share growth before the impact of the yen.
Additionally we believe that share repurchase should continue to be the largest component of our capital deployment.
I am very pleased that in 2015 we plan to repurchase $1.3 billion of shares which exceeds the 2014 repurchase.
As weve said for many years when it comes to deploying capital for the benefit of our shareholders we still believe that repurchasing of our shares and growing the cash dividend are the most attractive means and those are the avenues we will continue to pursue.
Let me reiterate what I said in the press release last night.
I am very pleased that we ended the year with our operating earnings per share at the high end of the 2014 estimate.
And although the results creates a tougher comparison when we look at 2015 our objective remains to grow 2015 operating earnings per diluted share before the currency at the 2% to 7% range.
Because overall financial markets are currently very challenging and interest rates are at significantly depressed levels its difficult to invest cash flows at attractive yields.
Therefore we will be very disciplined in selling per sector products in Japan which will reduce cash flows to investments.
I will also remind you that the progression of this years benefit ratios in both the United States and Japan which have seen favorable trends could also have significant impact on our results.
As always we are working very hard to achieve our earnings per share objectives while also ensuring we deliver on our promise to our policy holders.
Just let me in by saying how proud I am of the how hard our people in both Japan and the United States have worked to pull out such phenomenal fourth quarter results.
Everyone involved has been relentless and disciplined in their pursuit of excellence.
I am also pleased with Aflacs position in Japan and the United States the two largest insurance markets in the world.
First and foremost we are focused on protecting our policy holders and providing value to our investors.
We are fortunate that in the process of doing so we have the privilege of providing financial protection to over 50 million people worldwide.
Now I will turn the program back over to Robin Robin? Thank you Dan.
We now run on a tight time frame this morning and we will have to end sharply at 10 o'clock.
So in lieu of the numbers I normally give we are going to go straight to Q&amp;A.
But please remember that we are available in the office for any specific numbers that you want to get following the call.
So we will start now with our first question please.
Right thanks and good morning.
In the U.S.
clearly encouraging sales but the one area that was somewhat weak was recruiting.
So two part question what was causing the pressures and what initiatives do you have in place to turn that around? Nigel this is Teresa White.
In the U.S.
we actually expected a slight decline in recruiting.
As you are aware recruiting includes the career recruit and broker recruit.
So as we made changes to our model that we spoke about six months ago we realized that what we wanted to do is focus on broker productivity so really managing the relationship with the broker.
So we are looking up the quality of that relationship versus the quantity of recruits from a broker perspective.
However on the career side we are continuing to work with our sales organization to increase the recruits in sales.
But we did expect a slight decline in recruits this year in 2014.
Great thank you.
Hey good morning everybody.
Can you hear me.
Yes we can.
Okay great.
Dan I want to talk about kind of your fourth quarter 2015 thing in Japan.
It looks like the fourth quarter cancer sales were driven by affiliated corporate agencies which I believe is where Japan Post is located in terms of your financial statements and I dont think there is any particular reason for non-Japan Post affiliated corporate agencies to really have surged in the quarter.
So I guess I am interested in your worries with regards to 4Q 2015 I mean I understand being conservative and all but are you indicating maybe that Japan Post is kind of one in dime like maybe Dai Ichi or the banks where they pick up the low hanging fruit and then they are pretty much done and the growth is over? No I am not.
But I just want to say the increase again [Technical Difficulty] cancer sales were broad based.
There is no question that Japan Post was significant but let me just say that it is the best increase in cancer sales in our existing channel that would probably add in I can't remember how many years.
So I will let -- Kriss want to say something.
I just want to point out Steven that it is the growth rate in the fourth quarter that we are more concerned about it is the comparison not the absolute value.
Japan can comment and affirm it but I believe that the projected sales in absolute terms or similar in the fourth quarter is to what they were would be in the previous couple of quarters.
And it is just the growth rate that will decline.
So I want to clarify that.
Now Paul or anybody else in Japan might want to elaborate.
Yes first of all I would like to say that Dan and Kriss are correct that our channeled growth was across the board.
While Japan Post was significant and provided significant growth around our cancer plan we also saw significant growth not only in the corporate affiliated agencies but also with our independent agencies as well as our associates and all channels across the board.
So we feel confident that that growth was not about a single channel but about a broader environment where the Japanese consumers saw the need for our cancer product.
We believe that will continue thus our 15% increase projected over the next three quarters.
As Kriss mentioned he is correct sequentially the numbers will remain the same as the rate of growth that we believe will really drop off in the fourth quarter.
That said its very difficult to tell this far out with all of the different things that we are monitoring how thats going to go.
But the outstanding fourth quarter that happened here in Japan happened due to a consorted effort by our sales team.
It capped off on incredible career for Tohru Tonoike as our President who had everyone aligned and ready to execute.
And weve just gone through a wonderful succession here at Aflac Japan with Hiroshi Yamauchi coming on as the President.
And Id like to just let him make a quick comment before we turn it back over.
Good morning.
I am Hiroshi Yamauchi.
As you know I assumed the position of President and COO of Aflac Japan as of January 1st this year.
I joined Aflac Japan in 1976 as a member of the first group of new [indiscernible].
For the first 39 years including one year in Columbus I have been advancing my career with Aflac Japans growth.
Some of you may recall my name since I have given presentations in the Financial Alliance Briefing before.
I look forward to seeing you all at the Alliance Meeting in May.
Thank you.
Hey Paul if I may one follow up.
One day pay in Japan is that a possibility I would think with the mis-selling stuff thats going on in the past this could be a really big thing? We are acutely focused on what our customer wants here in Japan and currently we believe our payment of claims in Japan is the fastest among all of the competitors that we have here in Japan.
So while we are not doing the one day pay we do believe we are ahead of the competition in terms of claim payment and we constantly monitor what our consumers want and if we deem that is where we want to go we would consider doing it.
Okay thank you guys.
Hey great.
Good morning.
I wanted to talk about the reinsurance the retro that happened at the end of the year.
Two part question; one is can you explain how the economics of that work and how that may have offset the upfront cost of the most recent reinsurance deal? And then secondly I am kind of interested in the outlook for you to do more deals and potentially more retrocessions back to -- I assume the retrocession was back to the Nebraska sub thanks? Let me start on that and Kriss may want to add something.
We did execute an agreement to retrocede 50% of the second tranche.
You recall that the second tranche released about 55 billion yen of FSA based reserves and that was executed on October 1st of last year.
And so then we retroceded roughly half of that to actually our company that is domiciled in Columbia South Carolina CAIC or Aflac Group.
And it effectively serves as an offset to the cost that we incurred for the reinsurance.
So well pick up about $8 million or about a penny a share in this year from the retrocession which will reduce the cost of the second tranche which was probably around $0.025 a share still annualized.
As far as the extent to which we might do this going forward as I indicated at the analyst meeting we conducted in Tokyo last September we are working on a multiyear capital plan we are building out the framework for that plan and should be able to discuss more details at the Analyst Meeting in May.
But Ill tell you we have been pleased with the reinsurance agreements weve executed.
Its an effective -- efficient and effective tool for us to use to release FSA based capital and we found that the retrocession is also a tool that we can use to try and minimize some of the cost of that transaction.
So those are things that well consider as we go forward and build out our plan.
The only thing Id add is that technically we said we retroceded we Aflac Japan ceded a block of business to Swiss re and Swiss Re retroceded to our South Carolina company.
Its an independent risk sharing transaction its a two legged transaction in Japan.
Aflac Japan doesnt have anything to do with the retrocession.
It doesnt impact their financials in anyway they werent involved in the transaction at all.
The retrocession transaction was arranged between Aflac Incorporated and Swiss Re with an Aflac Incorporated subsidiary.
So just to clarify the technicalities of that.
And I guess just two quick follow ups so why the assumption or the implication there would that Japan FSA is comfortable with this and further deals? And then the other one is just any characterization you can give us on the kind of slower activity or interest you are getting from some of the global reinsurers? Well the FSA recognizes that there is no arrangement between Aflac Japan and the retrocession arrangement at all.
That's solely between the assuming party from the Aflac Japan Reinsurance and Aflac Incorporated through the South Carolina subsidiary.
So the FSA recognizes Aflac Japan is not party to the retrocession therefore they arent involved in it.
So that's no problem.
Remind me what the second part of the question was.
The interest among reinsurers.
Oh well there are significant interest among reinsurers.
This reinsurance is a very competitive market.
There are a number of companies that took notice of the first tranche that we arranged with Swiss Re.
We have had a number of calls we have talked to some others.
Swiss Re is an important partner to us but we are talking with some others just to test the market and the waters and we believe we will have relationships with multiple reinsurers as a possibility going forward.
Alright great.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Just a couple of questions first just looking at the sales growth momentum some are up here in growth and even the retrocession is there any expectation now that EPS growth year-over-year will not necessarily come in at the lower end of the guidance range? Well this is Kriss.
I will say that -- you have heard me say in prior years there are a lot of moving parts to our earnings estimates.
And clearly we are in recognition of the fact that the historically low interest rate environment is a headwind to us both in new sales in Japan.
We dont want to sell products that dont have appealing profit margins and at today's yen denominated interest rates it is hard to get an appealing profit margin on our first sector sale.
We have been doing some alternative investment strategies to mitigate that and we will continue to pursue those alternative investment strategies for the business we do sell.
But the fact of the matter is that new sales will be a drag first sector sales will be a drag a bit.
The ability to invest current cash flows at attractive investment yields is a challenge.
Eric can talk to that if appropriate.
And then you get to the benefit side of things.
We benefited from a decline in benefit ratios for a number of years now and the way we do our earnings estimates we take a look at where we are today.
We tend not to anticipate any further improvement in a step to be conservative.
We have experienced improvements and therefore we have been able to be in the mid to high end of the earnings range for the last several years.
In 2015 if we continue to get improvement it will move us towards the high-end of the range.
If things stay about the same then we will probably stay in the mid part of the range.
If things deteriorate a bit in terms of no additional improvement or some modest deterioration things might move towards the low end of the range.
But that's why we have got a range.
It is just a lot of moving parts and we dont have a lot more insight well we dont have total insight into that.
So that is why we give a range.
Okay.
And then my second question is going back to the third sector of sales.
So if you use kind of the guidance that was offered last night of 15% growth for the first three quarters of the year and then sounds like youre basically expecting a similar absolute number of sales in the fourth quarter ultimately I get to about 2% growth for the full year and third sector sales which is still at the low end of the guidance range both in 2014.
So I am sorry to be -- to push on what seems like a good sales quarter at the end of the day.
So I guess I am so much surprised that would Japan progress with the deal or partnership and with the new cancer product out in the market that we wouldnt see more robust growth over the full year? Of course we dont know what the fourth quarter will be at this particular point.
As I said in my numbers I looked at it for the last -- the rolling 12 months and I think they are going to be close to 20% and the fourth quarter will give you more insight at the end of the second quarter.
But at this particular time we are still unsure anytime.
We feel confident with what our existing channels will do but how we roll out and the way they roll out with Post is just too early to tell.
So were not willing to go out at this particular point and give a number but we will at the end of the second quarter where we got more information.
Its not something we control.
It is kind like Dai Ichi Life when we had them.
We have to wait and see but I would say we are still optimistic about our relationship with Japan Post because its been an outstanding relationship with them.
And no one else has got anything like this and we are going to continue to grow it and work on it.
Okay thank you.
Hi good morning.
So Ill just ask given the confusion on sales so maybe if you could talk about just the ramp up in sales via the Japan Post obviously the growth rate should slow down from the recent pace but do you expect the absolute amount to continue to go up through 2015 and then I have couple of other questions that Ive written down? This is Paul.
Unfortunately we are not allowed to disclose the specifics around the sales for Japan Post or the projections for Japan Post.
What I can tell you is that we are at three prong approach to our overall success within our partnership with Japan Post.
Number one we wanted to expand to the number of post offices which equaled number of 10 000 through end of last year.
Beginning in October we wanted to expand selling through combo the Japan Post Insurance Company and we also wanted to make sure that we offered a new product that was exclusive to the Japan Post network.
Weve been successful in achieving all three of those and we know that we are going to continue to expand the number of post offices overtime as that is the objective of the overall relationship.
And we believe the combination of the additional product for just a pay and post along with the expanded number of post offices will continue to allow us to foster growth in that relationship and access new customers that we would not have been able to access otherwise.
So I am in no way pessimistic about the relationship but we cannot go into specifics around a numbers or the projections.
Sure.
And then on the U.S.
business the expenses are obviously elevated in the fourth quarter.
Could you discuss what the or quantify what the expenses related to the U.S.
sales force restructuring were and what your expectation is for that number as you should the expenses remain elevated as you go through 2015? Jimmy this is Ken.
In the fourth quarter we had about 26 million hit the U.S.
P&amp;L excuse me thats for the full year.
There is about a million in the third quarter so about 25 million in the fourth quarter.
For 2015 we expect it to be around 88 million for the full year fairly evenly spread on a quarterly basis in the $21 million to $22 million range net of capitalization that would run to the U.S.
segment.
Okay thats helpful and lastly if you could just comment on capacity and/or likelihood of additional reinsurance fields you talked a little bit in response to previous question but are you still actively pursuing additional deals reinsurance deals? This is Kriss.
I will take that.
First of all let me say that these increased expenses in the U.S.
are built into the projections.
We had a pretty good estimate of them and they are cranked in there so -- and they are predicated on a 5% sales increase for the year which is our objective.
Okay that is why as far as our capacity and interest and additional reinsurance that is going to be dictated by our capital management planning.
We are taking a more comprehensive approach to doing capital management planning including identifying potential uses of capital and discussing potential sources of capital.
And we dont want to act precipitously in just doing reinsurance deals for the sake of doing reinsurance deals because we can't free up some of the additional reserves that are available in Japan.
We want to have and identified appropriate use for that capital to the extent we choose to repatriate some of those proceeds from Aflac Japan to Aflac U.S.
and subsequently to Aflac Incorporated.
There are uses for capital other than share repurchase partly to make sure we got squared up on our tax cash flows in the U.S.
and some other things like the position of the U.S.
operation from a capital perspective where we have been forcing the U.S.
operation to kind of pay the shareholder dividends for some time.
And there is a modest imbalance if you just looked at U.S.
only versus Japan that we are trying remediate.
It is not a source of concern among ourselves or among the regulators.
But it is something we are trying to do some advanced planning on.
And there are certainly potential other uses for capital.
So we are trying to do a more comprehensive program and we will have more to comment on mostly likely at FAB in terms of the progress we are making in that regard.
But I just want to emphasize we are not going to do reinsurance for the sake of doing reinsurance because we can.
We have to have a disciplined approach about this and that's what I am trying to do and put in place.
And just one follow-up to that too let me mention our FSA based earnings clearly benefited from the reinsurance transaction we had secured in October of last year.
As we commented on the third quarter that influenced our thoughts as we formulated our objectives earnings objectives and capital deployment plans for 2015.
So we are looking right now at an amount that we would repatriate of somewhere around 150 billion to 170 billion yen.
This year 50 billion yen of which we already received in December and that puts us in a good position in terms of executing on the capital deployment objectives we have for this year which is increasing the cash dividend and buying back $1.3 billion of our shares.
So that is why -- that in conjunction with our comments Kriss has made and what we talked about last September we are really thinking of longer term plan.
Okay that is helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Dan from looking at your early history in Japan Aflac was heavily if not exclusively I believe a cancer insurer.
Then during your tenure the company has diversified really quite a bit and for many years you had a broad line of products between cancer and medical riders that mentions long term care and so forth annuities.
But now it seems we are back to cancer only or at least that is what it seems in the December quarter.
I think it was the only product that showed that sales increased with the other showing declines what is your take on sort of what the next couple of years will bring in terms of new business production.
Will Aflac be a one product company or will there be breadth to the sales? Well the one thing that it has been rather consistent is whatever the new product is that is ultimately where the sales go.
And the new product for 2014 was cancer insurance.
I do believe we have a distinct advantage in Japan when it comes to cancer insurance over any other product weve got.
Its what started our company its what all consumers view as us being dominant in the market.
And so from that standpoint I think weve learned that cancer insurance is still very important.
But I think medical will be important and I think as we introduce the new medical product we will be -- were still number one in that and so I think it will just vary.
Let me ask Paul of Aflac Japan if theyd like to make any comments.
Yes remember we launched our new medical product toward the end of 2013.
So the comparison for medical sales in conjunction with the strong emphasis we had on launching of our new cancer plan certainly put the emphasis on third sector products on the cancer plan itself for that particular quarter.
The other comment Id like to make is really about the discipline that were holding in first sector because of the record low interest rates were seeing today and the profit margins that have already been mentioned around certain products.
We are certainly restraining the total number and total volume of first sector sales given the current conditions.
Given the large volume of exclusive agencies we have at Aflac we are certainly going to continue some presence within selling first sector products.
But in terms of broadly going after the first sector in the current environment we are restraining those sales and looking to see a fairly significant decline in first sector sales in 2015 if these trends continue.
I will be closely monitoring just as we did in the fourth quarter and will be monitoring our sales.
If conditions changed for the better well move in that direction if condition stay the same or worsen we would react accordingly.
But we have measures in place to affect our sales based on the type of business we want to be selling in Aflac.
But I will also and let me add some to that this is Kriss again.
We are making some modest investments to protect all of our distribution relationships.
All of our distribution relationships are important to us particularly the bank channel where there are limitations on what we are going to sell in the first sector.
But we are making accommodations in selling a certain amount of business in order to protect those relationships for the longer term.
I have one follow up question then Ill be done for the U.S.
team.
In the U.S.
it seems that there has been a stabilization a stabilizing in the number of productive agents number of monthly average producers.
Maybe the U.S.
team could address where they see that headed because it seems to be at the end of the day what matters is not how many people you recruiting not how many people you are losing indeed not how many people you have but how many productive people you have.
So I am focused on that productive number and Id like to know where its headed? This is Teresa White again.
Were absolutely headed were continued to recruit but we also are wanting to make sure that we have productive recruits.
So we see growth in that number our goal is to grow that number in 2015.
We are also looking to grow the number of what we call district sales coordinators and those are the field trainers those are the people who assist those recruits and ensure that they increase their productivity.
So short answer to that you are absolutely correct the goal is to continue to increase the average weekly producer number.
Thanks to everyone.
Thank you Eric.
Good morning.
My question is on the new product and given that it is more than cancer WAYS product and then similar product thats being sold exclusively to the Post.
I guess last time we saw a sales surge to this level where that product is now almost 50% of sales in the quarter there were some issues with margin in the future.
So I just want to get a better handle on your level of comfort around the margin in the product and in particular I recall you are highlighting some of the cash accumulation features within the product and I might not have that exactly right but it sounded to me like this was a bit of a hybrid product.
So I want to know is there an interest rate component that we should be mindful of but if you could just address that question in general? Tom this is Kriss.
The cancer product thats created the surge in sales as an annual premium long duration product not that as sensitive to interest rates.
I think at the FAB meetings Ive shown that third sectors products are relatively insensitive in terms of profitability to levels of lifetime net investment yields associated with the cash flows associated with that product.
We do bills from reserves.
The old blocks have some cash to render values and long duration benefits that we are selling the cash value rider this time out.
But its not that sensitive.
And we have diminished some of the long duration benefits that tend to bill reserves a lot.
So the cancer product is not nearly as inter sensitive as a first sector product and in fact I dont absolutely know it but I think its profitable at zero percent interest.
So that would tell us something there.
Let me see what else did I want to say.
About WAYS? Yes.
Thats what he was telling now.
Well WAYS was where we had the surge previously and clearly that was inter sensitive both in terms of it being limited pay.
We got most of the funds up in the short term and the intra spread made a lot of difference in the profitability over the long-term.
So this was near that plus we dont have things like discounted advance premium where we have to invest at todays rate.
And basically the third sector products Tom the claims pay out more quickly over the term of the contract.
They payout periodically during the term of the contract as opposed to all at the end of the contract.
So basically the new third sector products the cancer products arent nearly as inter sensitive as the first sector products because of the surge in 2011 and 2012 going into 2013.
Thats helpful Kriss thanks.
And just my follow up is just given what looks to me like is a fairly radical product mix shift that were seeing between first sector significantly falling off the cancer really ramping up here why shouldnt we see a reversal and an improvement in margins going forward here because I know we had the opposite happening when WAYS had become a much bigger part of the hole here.
But now that we are likely to see a real shift in the other direction is there -- should we be thinking over the next several years that were going to see any kind of meaningful lift in profit margin? Well youll see a lift in profit margin but it will be more gradual than the first sector of business impact because a lot of the cash flows associated with the first sector business came in at the front end of the product and closer just most of the premiums were paid within a 5 to 10 year period.
Whereas these health products the cancer products premiums were paid over the life of the business.
So the impact on premium income and the recognition of profit well the recognition of profit will be over the life of the policy as it was in the first sector of business.
But the revenues will come in over a slower period of time and more gradual period of time.
But we should see a kind of a diminishment we will see the impact of the first sector premiums on the margins tend to diminish as the level of first sector volume declines.
Okay thats helpful.
I guess just so I am clear on this is it -- if you look out over the next two three four years just given the mix shift here would you expect margins to go up or is there still a bit of a drag from the first sector and it is less clear at this point given where interest rates are? I dont expect margins to rebound immediately Tom but I think there will be gradual trend of increasing margins.
The first sector business that was about on a per policy basis 10 times the premium of a third sector policy.
So there is a major major impact on the mix shift of revenues associated with that surge in first sector of business.
This is a big surge in third sector business by itself but were still volume wise going to write I dont know the exact number but say around 70 billion of premium on third sector business right now.
And we were right in the like 120 billion or something like that in first sector in those prime years.
So it is just not quite.
On a policy basis were writing a lot more policies than we did on first sector but the premium on the first sector was so much more that I think it will be more gradual impact Tom.
Ill tell you what were going to have the updated projections and the like if the FAB meeting in May and Ill be able to update those forecast we give you on margins by product category first sector and third sector as well as an estimate of the impact on the aggregate margin for the next three years we will be updating math.
And this is Robin.
I would add that if you look at the presentation from the FAB meeting Aflac Japan outlook by product category the total overall profit margin that were seeing for 2015 is going to be right in the middle of what we projected.
So the projection was 19% to 22% and for 2015 were seeing 20.3%.
So I wanted to make that clear.
Also when you look at the day stay the number of days per hospital stay in Japan were continuing to see that decline which has been helping our benefit ratio also.
Okay thanks guys.
Hey thanks good morning.
I was hoping you could talk a little bit about how youre thinking about investment allocation in Japan between JGBs and U.S.
dollar corporate in 2015? Sure hi.
Its Eric Ryan.
Prior to all this volatility as we do our budgets and planning and consistent with the SAA work that we completed it would have been about 25% to 75% ratio.
Though I should also say as we think about the U.S.
dollar allocation its not necessarily confined to U.S.
corporate anymore.
We certainly have widened the scope but we do call it dollar assets.
However as you know we are being very tactical rates have dropped particularly in Japan because in the U.S.
while treasuries have fallen we have seen some credit spread widening that somewhat offset that.
So the absolute yield levels hadnt really dropped that much in the U.S.
But in light of these very low yields as you know on the 10 year hit about 23 or 24 since popped up the 10 year JGB has popped up to about 38.
At these low yields we would be inclined to underrate that allocation to JGBs.
Meaning to buy a 20 or 30 year maturity JGB which is typically where we focus at an average of perhaps of 1% or so wed rather underweight that allocation this year at those low yields and put that money to use whether in dollar assets and traditional fixed income or perhaps we do expect this year to get going with some of the growth assets that I had spoken about.
So were going to monitor that closely.
As you guys know the global macro conditions are changing drastically.
Were cognizant of that but at those low levels for JGBs we would underweight our allocation relative to the original budget.
The other thing I might mention as well and as we continue to evolve in our transformation we are being tactical on our asset allocation.
So as an example because we have seen this dislocation in the credit markets going back to about November December we firmly believe there is good fundamental credits that are still very strong in the U.S.
So one of the things that we did late December and were completing soon is what we call a billion dollar asset allocation or switch trade.
So we have moved out about a billion dollars of our investment grade corporate that we own and reallocated that about half to bank loans.
We think that sector has gotten hit from tacticals not necessarily from credit quality and liquidity from the retail market.
But given our long term nature we can take advantage of that.
And the other half of that into double dip credits in the high yield sector but the higher quality part of high yield where we think on a relative value basis thats a good long-term place to put our money.
So we are not only focused on the new money thats coming in and Kriss has talked about.
There will be less cash flows this year thats associated with how we view the product side but were also looking internal to our portfolio.
What else can we do amongst our own assets to rotate to take advantage of this and everyones heard me say we are in a great position around our capital levels.
As you all know weve cleaned up the past in terms of the portfolio.
So we are positioned for when there are disruptions in the market if there are asset classes and strategies that fit our SAA we will seek to try to take advantage of those.
And of course all of those things Ive just mentioned are always within the risk limits.
We have risk limits around all of these asset classes around different credit quality and duration and weve had capacity because we werent de-risking the portfolio over the last few years so now is the time for us when these disruptions occur to take advantage of those risk limits and average into the markets.
Thanks thats very helpful.
One follow up on that.
In the fourth quarter you have blended in money in Japan was 2.47%.
Certainly things have -- rates have come down since then can you just give us some sense of I guess given where we are today in the current environment what type of new money rate you think you can get in Japan at this point.
For the blended portfolio so that would basically look at not only whatever JGB assets we would buy but the dollar type allocation.
If we based it based on sort of the initial percentages by plan it would probably be something in the 2% area.
If we underrate those JGBs then that number would go higher.
So it will depend on how we invest and of course it will depend on where the yields are when we do invest that money and I dont need to tell everybody those yields are continuing to be volatile.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Hi thank you.
I guess other than the sales improving are there things that youre seeing in the U.S.
business that may not be as clear to us but that give you confidence with the changes you made are having the desired impact and that momentum should build in 2015? Well I am optimistic.
I felt good about the third quarter I felt good about the fourth quarter.
I think what Mike Tomlinson our new Director of Sales is doing is working I think what Teresa is doing and her involvement with sales in terms of managing the people has been good.
I am just overall very pleased.
I think Dan Lebish and what hes done with Aflac Group has been good.
So it all seems to be working but one thing I will say about this new structure is it pays for performance.
So there are going to be some very good bonuses in the fourth quarter.
If they dont perform well they all go make a lot less in 2005.
So Ive always said put the money where you want it and the people will flow that way.
I was in sales for 10 years.
So I know that to be true so I am cautiously optimistic but I want to wait until the end of the second quarter before I am willing to declare victory on whats going on.
Because frankly we were going against a pretty easy quarter.
The fourth quarter was an easy comparison for us so we should have done well.
Now we did better than I even thought.
But still it was an easy quarter.
Our easiest quarter in 2015 will be the second quarter.
First quarter is a little harder because we had some carry over business in 2013 so well just have to see.
But I am still very encouraged that well make that number and I am really not satisfied with that.
I really won't higher our numbers and I think especially with this one day pay it just opens the door for us because there is nobody in the industry thats going to be able to process approve and pay in one day.
And thats what is important.
It is at the time of claim that people need their money the fastest and were going to give it in their hands and yes there will be some we cant because of like short-term disability but the accident the cancer all of the main product lines we sell were going to be able to give it to them.
And I just think its going to set us apart and so I am optimistic but I still at the same time want to be cautious because I am sales man at heart.
So I want to be careful here.
Got it thank you thats helpful.
And then just one follow up on the U.S.
can you talk about the sales breakdown in the fourth quarter between individual and group products.
Well what we look at really is the distribution of the product breakdown and so in the fourth quarter what we saw was really increase in sales on the broker side.
We saw as far as the breakdown about a 69% from career 31% from broker is the breakdown.
But what I really kind of want you to look at from our perspective is really the channel and we look at the channel from the perspective of the career channel being focused on the less than 100 market and the broker channel and the broker sales executives basically selling to and servicing the large case brokers.
Now when you look at the product set the products are looking more like 87% of our business is traditional 13% is group.
And we of course think of thats going to continue to grow.
Got it and how does that 13% of group sales compare to what it was in the fourth quarter of 2013? Fourth quarter of 2013 well around 10%.
So we have seen a modest growth in the group sales.
But one of the things the reason I look at it from a career distribution versus broker distribution is because even in our broker -- with our brokers 63% of what they sell is the individual product.
So the larger case brokers are the ones that are selling more of the group products but the more regional and local brokers are still selling the individual product.
So you really cant get a good feel when youre looking at it group versus individual are the traditional products.
[Technical Difficulty] Got it thats helpful.
Thank you.
Allocations within the existing portfolio is there a point which you take a really hard look at the available for sale portfolio within Japan and start to sell some JGBs and reallocate given where yields are.
I know obviously you have generated some significant capital gains but might you not be happy to pay those taxes to get a lower allocation at JGBs particularly given the downgrade in December to a single WAY level? Sure and thank you for that question and please be assured we look at all sorts of modeling of our portfolio and opportunities from yen to dollars.
There could be a day when we preferred dollars to yen and we take a look the credit quality issue and your point the JGBs we own we will be looking at in the single A category instead of the double A category given the Moodys downgrade.
But having said that keep in mind we are balancing a number of factors.
So for example when we look at the JGBs they do provide us with yen interest rate protection versus our liabilities because the liabilities are all in yen.
So thats a very important factor and we look at the SAA our JGB allocation is what I would call at the lower end of the range.
It could be a lot higher if we wanted even better matching characteristics where the privates help with that as well because they are yen denominated.
So we will take a look at that but I dont think there is an infinite amount of capacity to say JGB is down by 10% of the total portfolio and reallocate.
There may be some opportunities around the edges.
And then finally just for clarification most of our JGBs are in either HGM or what we call PRM policy reserve matching.
We have very affluent AFS but even within PRM there are some opportunities to do asset allocation and rotate.
I just wanted to clarify the accounting designation.
Yes no that is why I was focused on the AFS.
And then I guess maybe it is a question or comment and maybe to both if I look at your overall U.S.
sales in 2014 they are only about 7% or 8% below your all time high which I believe was 2007.
You know now I recognize that competition has grown and probably the market opportunity has grown since 2007 as well.
So you have lost ground but isnt it possible that you are back within the next year or two to essentially all time at least in absolute dollar terms production levels at highest? Teresa and I both 8.9 is the number.
That is what we have to do to beat the all time record.
I knew you would know it.
Yes I know it.
What I have told them is if we want to beat records that's what we are after.
Teresa and I both know the number by heart and we are keeping it in front of them constantly.
And the sooner the better but that's a strange call that I am keeping back there.
But as I said 5 is the number.
Understood okay thank you very much.
It is Kriss I just wanted to tell you that Dan and Teresa's motto this year is no whining.
No whining.
I guess and maybe keeping that in mind I will make this last comment for you before the call ends the more you want to create difficult sales comparisons for yourselves the more I am on board.
We are all for that.
Thank you.
Go to our website and checkout one day pay.
Alright guys and ladies thank you so much for joining us.
If you want to follow up with any calls we will be in the office and we thank you so much for joining us today.
Bye bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Aflac First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you and good morning and welcome to our first quarter conference call.
Joining me this morning in the U.S.
is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President and CFO; Ken Janke Executive Vice President and Deputy CFO; Teresa White President of Aflac US; and Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us today from Tokyo are Paul Amos President of Aflac and Hiroshi Yamauchi President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Before we start this morning let me remind you that some of the statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of Federal Securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discussed today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that can materially impact our results.
Now Ill turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments on the quarter as well as our operations in Japan and in the United States.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Let me begin with an update of Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
Sales of Aflac Japan's third sector products were up 21.3% in the quarter.
This result established a strong start toward our expectation to third sector sales with average and increase of 15% for the first nine months of the year.
Sales of cancer insurance continued to be extremely strong following the introduction of the end of the third quarter the new cancer days products which includes an exclusive policy sold for Japan Post.
Following an outstanding fourth quarter 2014 reception of this product cancer insurance sales in the first quarter generated a 118% increase through all distribution channels and outlooks.
Our distribution side our strategic alliance with Japan Post continues to be enormously beneficial.
This alliance leverages Japan's Post position as the largest distribution network in Japan with Aflac Japan status is a leading industry and pioneer of cancer insurance.
Our tremendous progress continues add more than 10 000 postal outlooks offering our cancer insurance to their customers.
I believe this alliance will continue to benefit both companies as the opportunities and purchase cancer insurance is extended to more and more Japanese consumers.
At the same time our traditional agencies had been and remain key to our success.
Our goal is to have a presence for our consumers want to make their insurance decisions and our various distribution outlooks broadened for that reach.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operation.
As I mentioned here in the fourth quarter conference call we expected the first quarter sales would be challenging.
As we communicated the expense ratio increased during the quarter primarily reflecting the expenses related to the changes we made to our sales organization over the last several months.
We believe these changes which were implemented to enhance our sales growth are better positioning Aflac U.S.
for the future.
At the same time we just started something no one in the industry is ever attempted no less done and that is the one day pay.
The industry first initiated means that we process approve and pay in just one day.
We are delivering on our promise to our policyholders in a more meaningful way of getting cash in their hands faster than ever faster than anyone in fact.
We estimate that 70% of our policyholders can use one day pay for their clients.
In 2015 we expect to process nearly 2 million claims within the parameters of this initiative.
One day pay is generated a lot of excitement with their distribution channels or accounts in our policyholders.
Along with the strong brand and relevant products I believe one day pay will continue to help Aflac standout.
As I mentioned last quarter I'm not willing to say that Aflac U.S.
sales have turned the corner until we see the results for the first half of the year.
At the same time I remain encouraged by the progress that we've seen and continue to see.
I still believe that Aflac U.S.
sales will increase 3% to 7% for the year.
We'll continue to advance our efforts toward expanding our distribution to access employers of all size.
Doing so will allow us more opportunities to leverage our brand and have attractive products in the portfolio in an ever-changing health care environment.
Having covered operations let me turn to the topic that I know are top of mind with our shareholders and that is capital deployment.
Our commitment to maintaining strong capital ratios on behalf of our policyholders puts us in an excellent position to repatriate about 200 billion to the United States for the calendar year 2015.
This reinforces our plan to repurchase 1.3 billion of our common stock in 2015 and puts us in a good position for the next year as well.
I want to reiterate that our objective for 2015 remains to increase operating earnings per diluted share 2% to 7% before the effect of currency.
Challenging financial markets and a very low interest rate make it difficult to invest cash flows at attractive yields.
Therefore we will continue to be very disciplined in selling per sector products in Japan which will reduce investable cash flows.
As always we are working very hard to achieve our earnings per share objectives while also delivering on our promise to our policyholders.
I am pleased with Aflac's position in Japan and the United States the two largest insurance markets in the world.
Aflac has earned a distinction of being the best branded company for voluntary and supplemental products in each country.
We continue to believe Japan and the United States each are characteristic that make them extremely well suited for the products that we offer.
Importantly both markets offer opportunities for growth.
We are fortunate that in the process of growing our business we have the privilege of providing financial protection to more than 50 million people worldwide.
Now I will turn the program back over to Robin.
Robin? Thank you Dan.
And now in the interest of time we are going to start taking calls.
Could I have the first question please? [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Randy Binner from FBR Capital Markets.
Good morning thank you.
I would like to try and get some more color on reinsurance deal.
Those announced in the quarter is part of your capital management plan.
I guess first just to understand how this may have differed from the previous two deals in regard to subject matter risk that's covered if it's with a different reinsurance partner.
And you noted that there is a recapture almost immediately.
So can we take that last piece to mean that this is less expensive than the previous two deals? This is Kriss Cloninger I will handle that.
The substance of the reinsurance agreement was materially the same as the two previous transactions we did they involve blocks of our enforced medical insurance that had demonstrated financial characteristics in the like.
It was done with a different reinsurer.
The previous agreements had been done with the Swiss re this was done with Munich.
We had been talking with several reinsurance partners and we wanted to expand our track record of business relationships and so we did that.
The retrocession was similar in substance to the previous retrocession we did and the second tranche was Swiss re but it was a higher amount.
It was 90% of the block in the set of 50% that we did in the second deal.
Accordingly there will be a lower net cost to Aflac on a consolidated basis than there was in the previous transaction.
Just two follow-ups one we can think of it economically the 430 billion has been kind of freed up I just want to clarify that.
And also if you can give us color of how many more of these transactions we can expect? Our view is been that there is a lot of capacity for a series of transaction that free up more of the capital reserve differential between Japan and the U.S but would like to understand how many more of these are house systematic these maybe? Well let me first say that we do have additional capacity.
We are always primarily interested in making sure there are policyholders in Japan are protected it at a very higher level freeing up some of the FSA basis reserve allows us to increase our solvency margin in Japan as a first step that gives us more security that we will able to perform with response to our policyholder obligations.
We do have significant capacity remaining.
I believe and we haven't gotten a specific plan.
We don't have a specific plan for additional transactions but I think that we will talk about that in some more depth in our upcoming financial analyst briefing in May when we talk about sources and uses of capital.
I think you can anticipate that there will be more transactions each.
We have been taking this as one step at a time the very first transaction we did we did to increase the SMR to reduce the exposure we had to volatility and interest rates and currency in the like.
The second one we did to achieve the same objective to reduce cost and then the first retrocession deal.
And this third one has essentially the same objectives in the initial transaction that are to further reduce cost through the reinsurance of the retrocession.
So I think we will give you more color at FAB in May.
All right great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Nigel Daily of Morgan Stanly.
Great thanks and good morning.
Sticking with capital given the sizeable repatriation seems like you could easily do more buybacks in the current guidance.
First question what's holding you back from increasing your buyback guidance? Doing the additional reinsurance deal does increase our financial flexibility going forward and as I said we will talk more about our capital uses plan at FAB meeting.
I think it is just fair to say Nigel and response to that we do have more flexibility but at this point we are early in the year.
We had a target for repurchase in 2015 of a 1.3 billion.
We are going to stick with that things are still bit early and so we will give you more color on that in May.
And then just a follow-up on the reinsurance transaction.
You mentioned it to be low in net cost given the higher retrocession.
Can you quantify what that net cost will be? In terms of cents per share it has to - Nigel this is Ken.
With tranches 1 and 2 we were looking at an annual run rate about $0.07 per share that would be reduced by about 10 years so from the retrocession of half of tranche 2.
Given the size of the retrocession with tranche 3 with the most recent transaction we dont look at it as materially impacting the net cost of the program in the short run.
So when you think about an EPS drag for instance for calendar '15 it's still going to be maybe in that $0.05 to $0.06 per share for the first three tranches for the full year of this year so total marginal net comps for the transaction.
Got it.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Jimmy Bullar of JPMorgan.
Hi first had question on your EPS guidance so Im little surprised that you left the guidance unchanged at 2% to 7% since you are going to have the $0.07 reduction in your interest expense.
Im wondering if that this year and then obviously next year that should be around 10% so Im wondering if that is part of your guidance and if it isnt is there anything else that you see as a potential headwind that would offset the benefit of that and then secondly on Japan sales even if sales sustain at sort of the recent level that theyve been it seems like your guidance at least through the first three quarters of the year for the 15% increase is somewhat conservative.
So just wondering why sales wouldnt sustain theyre right now like Id assume that you would probably get more production from the Japan post as you keep adding additional granted.
Jimmy let me start with the EPS guidance and to address that and then will address the Japan sales guidance.
We gave you a pretty wide range; I consider 2% to 7% increase in EPS on a currency neutral basis to be a fairly wide range.
We do wide ranges because we know that some things are going to go well some things arent going to go quite as well and were always working at activities that will move us up in the range.
So clearly taking advantage of the opportunity to redeem those high interest expense senior notes $850 million of senior notes that had a 8.5% coupon will benefit us going forward.
That wasnt directly reflected in the original EPS guidance but again its too early in the year to say that were going to narrow the range at this point that we initially established.
Clearly that particular transaction will increase our certainty that will be able to perform within that range and certainly it adds to our ability to perform more strongly than we originally anticipated but thats as far as I am willing to go at the moment.
Now lets turn to Ken.
Let Yamauchi or Paul take that.
On the Japan sales guidance okay.
This is Paul Ill start and if Yamauchi wants to add additional comment I will let him do so First of all youre correct that weve had strong sales in the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year and we feel that the markets desire for our new cancer plant has been extremely strong.
And as we noted in the previous call we are expecting the first three quarters of this year to be strong with a 15% growth over those three quarters.
At this point were not changing that number if we see sales continue to go extremely strong to the end of the second quarter we will at the time talk about any kind of revision but given the size of the fourth quarter of 2014 and hurtle that is to overcome Im hesitant yet to talk about any changes in annual sales guidance but I have to say overall Im very pleased with the sales not only through Japan post but across the board.
All of our channels have been extremely receptive I do however believe there are many things we are doing to continue to increase our long-term sales anytime we announced new product announcements things of that nature.
There can be an adverse impact to short term sales in a 13 week period and so as we move further into the year there are things that may not necessarily cause us to perform at the same optimum level were performing at today.
But well still achieve excellent results and so were very excited about where its going to go forward from here.
Anything you want to add? That is good I think we are good.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question comes from Seth Weiss Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good morning.
Thank you.
If I could ask another question on the capital and proceeds results released from the reinsurance transaction so the reinsurance deals releases JPY130 billion so call it JPY80 billion to JPY90 billion after tax you increase your repatriation plan by JPY30 billion to JPY50 billion so can you help us think about the plan for that remaining JPY40 billion that gets released from the reinsurance deal that will suppose we stay in the Japan entity? And I dont know Ken you want to add any color on that we did this additional reinsurance transaction we increase the anticipated repatriation some thats its not really one for one deal but its directionally proactive in equivalent.
We reevaluated the whole scenario as far as repatriation in the like in the JPY200 billion is our best estimate and whats provided for in our FSA financials as of March 31 2015.
So that is the color Im able to provide in a portion of it said its provisioned for potentially future type profit transfers and the portion would support the current SMR that we have in Japan so weve got a lot of flexibility.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And on the earnings side I understand there is very little net impact just for the case of our models is there should we think about a transferring of earnings from the Japan entity to the U.S.
entity and if you could give us any quantification of that that would be helpful.
Well thats what the repatriation is the JPY200 billion as a transfer from Aflac Japan to Aflac U.S.
within the insurance entity then question remains how much of that would be dividend to the parent.
But the JPY200 billion is the transfer from Japan to the U.S.
And so I made have been unclear I mean on the earnings standpoint thinking about the retrocession specifically which I believe goes to the CAIC entity in Right.
Okay.
Well I earlier commented that there is very little marginal effect on EPS of this transaction because it was 90% retroceded in terms of the cost we do report the full cost in the Aflac Japan segment and the benefit of the retrocession will come through in our financial reporting identified in the so called other segment we didnt included in the Aflac U.S.
segment because it wasnt really an Aflac U.S.
transaction but the net cost through corporate will be reflected in the consolidated financials.
Im not sure Im totally answering your question but.
Yes it just comes to try to look at Aflac Japan in a year-over-year basis apples-to-apples so thinking about how much earnings maybe loss there in transferring into other just we can get better view of underlying growth in that entity if you want to strip out earnings which is essentially being transferred to other.
Thanks.
This is Robin let me just say especially for those may not have reviewed the statistical supplement and detail we made two major changes to the statistical supplement and one of them is on page 21 we broke out the impact on both premium and on benefits for premiums gross versus premium seeded and we went back from the first tranche.
So that you will be able to see trend on this and it should help you model on a go forward basis so we did extend the information that were giving you on that and so if you have to look at that will be glad to talk you through that also following the call if you would like to.
The second thing I would mention while were added the second change weve made in the statistical supplement and as youre all know we make it in the first quarter of the year so that we do not have any partial year anomalies occur we enhanced what we think is the reporting of the persistency modeling in the U.S.
it now includes CAIC and additionally it is on a rolling 12 month basis versus taking each quarter to-date in annualizing that number.
So we found and talking some analyst that was a better understood metric and it caused us to eliminate be able to eliminate some of those anomalies especially as you annualized first quarter which really didnt give you much of an idea of the trend in persistency.
I apologize I want to make it statement on page yes it was 22 where you can find that break out of that seeded and then 21 on the seeded in gross premium.
And I dont have the net profit impact directly in front of me but as our call and Im going to talking to my internal team here is the net effect on Japan P&amp;L was approximately $5 million for the quarter and try to add about $5 million for the three transactions combined and as I said that will okay that will show up in the Japan segment as gross number and then the retrocession effect will show up in the other segment but the impact on consolidated P&amp;L ought to be probably less than a $1 million for that third transaction third tranche.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Eric Bass of Citigroup.
Good morning.
Thank you just can you talk about the trends in U.S.
recruiting in the incentives you put in place try to increase the agent force I guess the given the changes that you made on the middle of last year and the increase commission payments and the little surprise that recruiting hasnt accelerated in recent quarters? This is Teresa so I will answer that.
First let me explain the recruited agent metric the metric includes though career agent recruits as well as broker recruits so as I mentioned in the fourth quarter we did expect disruption in the number as we started consolidation of that broker organization and we redirected a lot of their efforts at least in the short term to focus on existing broker relationship.
So we did really good job at recruiting brokers but what we wanted to do was enhanced relationships and obviously helped to increase penetration with regard to Aflac business.
So even with this results are not acceptable we know that we have to have a marked improvement in the long-term but its important to know that the changes that weve made is that are really driving the operation to one side of the operation to look at career recruiting and the other side of the operation to focus on broker recruiting and developing of those relationships.
Got it.
And I guess how do you think about the sales growth pattern for the U.S.
and given the I guess relatively flat producing agent levels on kind of the traditional channels do you expect to see material growth from that channel over the next quarter or most of kind of the year-over-year growth come in the fourth quarter when you see the higher group sales? So as we start increasing the volume of group product we do anticipate that more of the sales skewed toward the fourth quarter and thats just kind of a natural progression as you increase your sales and with brokers in the group markets.
So we do see a skew towards the fourth quarter with sales growth.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Steven Schwartz Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Hi the couple questions Teresa just to follow-up on that and anything you can say with regards to progress with the alphabet brokerages would be appreciated? Certainly we are seeing progress with many of the large brokerage houses and matter fact theyre moving in our top theyre in our top five now and before as far as production sales production and before we couldnt say that.
We were seeing marginal improvements but now theyve moved in our top five as far as sales growth so we are seeing tremendous improvement there obviously we continue to work with each of those brokers houses and weve now created an organization I think that will help us to further enhance relationships in those brokerage houses as well as other relationships with regard to regional and large scale brokers.
And let me say one thing.
Because the number is so big our general our associates are agents that work for us on writing accounts of hundred or less.
We must maintain continued stability there.
We do have growth there and so this has been an evolution as we are going through this process of trying to add on brokers while protecting and building our existing field force and thats been a real challenge for us.
But its under Teresas leadership it is doing very well and Im very encouraged about that and I think long-term these decisions that weve made have been the right ones.
I will make one comment about recruiting and that is that weve made so many changes from a production perspective that there is a lot going on and so all of it is tying together.
I like the one day pay.
I like that we have set it up in a way that these people are important market directors will do very well as the company does very well and they wont if we dont.
So I think its all working nicely together and as I said in my comments Im not willing to declare victory but its certainly going the direction.
I would like it to go faster as Teresa would but its still moving in the right directions of what we ultimately want to accomplish.
I did find it interesting with all the changes we make that we did not lose any market directors and so there is probably a few that will change out that if they dont as well they wont make as much and they may retire or whatever.
So there is still some changes probably to take place but all in all I think were going down the path that its going to prove that its working the right way.
Its just a question of how fast its working.
Yeah.
And as a follow up part of what I think I heard you say at least at the beginning when you started talking.
You didnt say in so many words but that try and keep the career agents in a sense where they belong at smaller accounts under 100 people is continuing and is working.
Yeah.
Were paying more to write there.
So its been an enhancement of moving them in that direction but paying because thats where they are most effective.
And it is also the least area of competition.
Okay.
And then just an accounting question.
I dont know Kriss if you know this answer or not but given the retrocession back to the U.S.
is there any increase in the deferred profit liability? Youre talking GAAP not statutory.
Yes I am talking about GAAP.
Okay.
Or is it any 10% I guess there is a difference.
Well the retrocession would be proportion of the direct transaction.
And we do use on a well on a GAAP basis its we use deferred profit liability to minimize any profit recognition effect.
So - So it would be right in Japan? I guess Yes in Japan.
But not in other okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Wanted to ask Eric a question in terms of the new money yield in Japan.
It was only 1.1% this quarter.
I think the plan for the year is two.
Can you comment on why it looks like you pretty much just invested in [indiscernible] quarter.
Is that just a timing issue? And then second question related to that for Kriss and I appreciate that first sector sales fell lot but there is still north of 20% of your Japan sales for the quarter at terms of ways in endowment.
Are you actually making a profit for those products earning 1.1%? Thanks Tom.
This is Eric and I will go first and thanks for asking that question because I know it sticks out a little bit but the short answer and the simple answer is our cash flows for the first quarter were insignificant and that was primarily in all plans for because as you know we have increased the frequency of repatriation we had tax payments so the amount of money we had to invest was inconsequential and not reflective at all of our strategic asset allocation.
We do expect in the second quarter our cash flows to be relatively low as well but in the second half of the year they will pick up and our new money yields at that point will reflect the types of investments new starts making whether those be in dollars or other products but for the first quarter it was just simply and inconsequential amount of new money.
And Eric when you say inconsequential would that be less than 10% of the money you expect to invest in the year is it a way you could quantify? Yes actually it was about 4.5% 5% of the total new money for the whole year.
So it really is back ended in the second half of the year.
Got it.
And Tom on your question about profitability of first sector business [indiscernible] ways we are still writing.
Those are profitable at the anticipated annual investment yield of about 2% recall that reserving was reduced to 1% FSA in first assumption and we reprice the products with networks assumptions of around 1.25%.
So we still we would have a positive spread in our anticipated yield for the year if we looked at first quarter only of 1.1% now it is pretty marginal.
There are sources of province other than interest spread but for the quarter itself the closer to break even and profitable in that first sector business but keep in mind were writing the first sector business primarily is in accommodation to keep distribution alive and maintain relationships primarily with the banks.
So to some extent first sector business today is in the accommodation and we do have caps on total production to try to mitigate the lower anticipated profit opportunities at these low interest rates.
Yes Paul Amos do you want to make any comments about that? I would be glad to our exclusive agencies have continued to be obviously dedicated to Aflac and all of its products.
As a result we continue to allow those exclusive agencies to offer not only our third sector products but in order to be competitive in the marketplace they do still offer certain levels of our first sector products.
In terms of the other channels as Kriss mentioned we are holding back and putting in caps for certain areas in certain channels in terms of the total sales.
I think this meets our objectives we obviously talk about caps on an annual basis and so we continue to look at them and how that will be affected throughout the remainder of the year as the sales reach those caps.
Got it.
And then that's all helpful guys just one final question if I could the - I would have Hiroshi Yamauchi very quickly here.
[Foreign Language] So basically what Paul has said is absolutely correct and for agencies to be selling the first sector product - We cant hear you? It is not clear.
It is not clear do it the way you are just talking.
As Paul had mentioned the third sector product revenue by our agency and in order for them to do so the first sector product entity is - we are capping the first sector and for our customers that is needed in order for to retain the customers that is selling to be purchasing the third sector product.
But all of that are in our numbers that we with our earnings per share guidance that we have given all of that is taken into account and there is nothing there that we are shocked about going forward.
That is clear thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
Thanks very much.
My first question is for Dan or for Kriss well I certainly understand value appreciate what you are doing on the capital accounts side of things with the reinsurance and repatriation and so forth and related share repurchase I can have noticed in your business in Japan on a constant currency basis is reporting lower earnings your profits are down this year on a constant currency basis and then right it is not the Yen my question is when you expect to start seeing the earnings not the earnings per share but the earnings of your business in Japan growing and relatively what would you view at this point in history of the company as the sustainable growth rate if you consider the long term sustainable growth rate of your Japan business? This is Kriss.
I will take the first shot at that and if Dan wants to supplement he can.
First regarding first quarter Japan operating results we were down little bit on the currency neutral basis.
We had better well lower benefit ratios last year in the first quarter than we had this year but that was primarily due to the order of magnitude of claim reserve adjustments.
Last year we had a some release of claim reserves to get us down to the high end of the range that our auditors like to see in last year we had a larger release than we have this year.
We did have some release this year but again we maintain conservative claim reserves I believe and we try to be within the range that auditors independently recalculate in.
So we just have it is really more difficult comparison so to speak earnings first quarter of 2015 versus 2014 overall I would say that we have the headwinds primarily of low interest rates somewhat at lower cash flows in the like impacting our operating earnings in Japan in keep in mind our margins in Japan are the highest in the industry and we really dont anticipate that they will increase significantly.
We have got bit of a mix shift going own sale between first and third sector and even though first sector sales are down relative to where they had been as previously pointed out there is still significant and we are still having a larger proportion of our overall premium income associated with first sector products as the business continues to earn out on the premium thing basis.
Long term growth rates Eric the way outlook added is it at least related to third sector business the medical and cancer I will relate our fundamental business to the level of healthcare expenditures in the country and in Japan we anticipate the level of healthcare expenditures will continue to increase independent statistics have numbers in the 5% range in our fundamental business in the third sector is to help our policyholders meet their share of the healthcare cost that they have to bear in Japan.
Right now under the National Healthcare Program the co-payments are 30% we think those will either remain stable or increase going forward and that might increase our opportunity to further our medical sales.
Regarding first sector sales it is going to depend on the trend in interest rates.
Right now the profit margin is lower than what we want to have in our portfolio so we are de-emphasizing the production of first sector business.
In fact we what we try to make sure of it is they sell a first sector they have to sell the third sector as well and pretty much what I would say Kriss covered especially when it comes to third sector because that is really the way I view our business.
The first sector is nothing but an introduction of selling ultimately third sector products and I would like to see a growth rate of 5% in new sales it gets tougher as the number gets bigger but that is a goal that certainly worthy of us continuing to strive for and no one has got the distribution system we have and so we are always looking for new products and ways to do that.
And if we are right now working on another new product which we cant talk about but we are doing we will constantly be revamping and then the wildcard as Kriss said is whether or not the co-pay as deductibles go up.
I dont have any reason to think they are tomorrow other than if you look at the issues they are having regarding their budgets they are continuing to have problems and they have got to find a way to bring down their deficits and with an aging population could there is a much higher likelihood that it is going to continue to go up not down so I would think there will be more pressure on reviewing and seeing if they want to increase the co-pays and deductibles and if they do that that is a game changer for us.
One thing Eric you know little advertisement for the FAB meeting I do talk about anticipated margins between first and third sector during FAB speech as you can refer back to our FAB booklet for what our forecast for 2014 to 2016 as far as benefit ratio as expense ratios and profit margins separately for our first and third sector business.
And I will update those in May so I can just tell you right now there is no major change in our margins that we anticipate so that is a bit of a preview but it says lot of our future growth will be related to revenue growth not margin expansion.
One quick follow up then I will end it there.
I have a question too about the reinsurance.
I tend to think of the so to speak the cost of reinsurance in a co-insurance you like this one as the amount of premium I mean amount of assets that you have to see invested assets that you have to see to the reinsure in order to be relieved of a certain amount of risk? So I guess my question in order to are you really reducing the cost of the reinsurance or more accurately are you just ensuring significantly less than would be the case if you werent retroceding the business? Well that is a way to look at it the retrocession reduces the direct session obviously and so instead of reinsuring 100% of block of business youve reinsured 10% of it and accordingly you have 10% of the cost it is a risk sharing transaction between Aflac Japan and to reinsure and then it is a risk sharing transaction between the reinsurer back to the U.S.
subsidiary CISC that is a legal entity that picks up the retrocession.
So clearly their cost transfers but enough to the overall company you are correct so let me just tell you that we dont we havent had to do asset transfers in this co insurance the prospective cash flow on the block of business is such that no asset transfer was done in any of the tranches and we just ceded the liability for future claims and exchange for our share of the gross premium.
And there is a net cost associated with it.
Just to review the very first tranche that we did for capital raising purposes in Japan basically we did it because that was the lowest cost of capital with any alternative we had.
And we reduced the cost or reduced the size of the future tranches the retrocession.
So we are achieving some reserve relief on an FSA basis enhancing our solvency margin continuing to protect policyholders and the like but continuing to free up some of or what I sometimes refer to payroll capital so that's an overview.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from Humphrey Lee of Dowling &amp; Partners.
Good morning thank you for taking my questions.
Just a quick follow on the reinsurance.
Kriss mentioned that there will be a additional capacity for the reinsurance but coming on the appetite like in other words all factors well appreciate if you give you more this year as opposed to doing last this year? I think I mentioned on the last conference call I dont want to do reinsurance just for the sake of doing reinsurance.
I want there to be an appropriate use of capital in order to incur the cost regardless of how small the cost maybe.
There's still a capital cost associated with doing the deal and unless weve got an appropriate use for the reinsurance were not going to have the appetite.
I've covered the uses of capital from the reinsurance we've done so far.
Weve certainly got additional capacity in terms of the blocks of third sector business in Japan.
We've certainly got or continue to have an excess of FSA reserves over U.S.
statutory reserves on same block and I'm confident that the U.S.
statutory reserves were adequate so we believe we've got some opportunity to relieve ourselves as some of the excess reserves.
Were holding on a FSA basis but there is no point in doing or reassuring reinsurance arrangement unless you have an appropriate use of capital.
And again I'll give you some more color on that in May I don't want to it on this call.
But we do have significantly more financial flexibility today after having done the reinsurance and particularly at a lower net cost than we had 18 months ago.
So I think were in a much stronger and more flexible financial position having done each of these three transactions and proven we could do it we continue to have reinsurance capacity both from the two companies weve done business with so far and weve got other parties that continue to knock on our door and ask for opportunity.
So were happy with where we are.
Thank you for the color.
And another question on U.S.
side of the business.
So the expenses were little bit elevated I think that's impart because of the condensation structures changes and also some other ongoing issue just going on in the US.
How should I think about the kind of excess ratio the expenses for the quarter that would be considered more for recurring expenses due to the compensation structure change as oppose to these initiatives going on? This is Ken.
Let me comment on that I talked a little bit about that in the fourth quarter when we released our guidance and talked about what went into it.
In the first quarter of this year the added expense from the changes we made to our field for structure was approximately $19.5 million net of capitalization and we expect it to run kind of in the $20 million to $22 million or so we expected to run around $20 million to $22 million as a run rate for the fourth quarter of this year.
So we're little bit lower than in the first quarter than what we would anticipate it but it was again about $19.5 million of additional fixed expense coming from those changes.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
We're coming up to the top of the hour now so we have time for one more question please.
Yes maam.
Our last question coming from the line of Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Thanks good morning.
So question on these reinsurance deals.
Can you just remind us does the FSA or U.S.
regulators need to approve these transactions? We've reviewed the reinsurance transaction with both the FSA and the U.S.
regulators.
Weve reviewed both the direct reinsurance agreement and the retrocession agreement with the FSA.
Certainly we covered the first tranche with them.
With the FSA we approached them two we approached the FSA with an opportunity to discuss the retrocession arrangement.
And they appropriately observed that Aflac Japan was not a party to the retrocession agreement and wondered why we had brought it to their attention.
So we apologized and thanked them for their interest.
We just wanted to make them aware of the transaction but yes weve covered both aspects of the agreement with the FSA and of course we have covered with the state in Nebraska both on all three tranches and South Carolina with respect to the retrocession.
So were in good shape on the regulatory relationships and approvals with respect to these transactions.
Yes we just want to make sure that were not only taking care of the shareholders but also making sure that we have strong capital position on behalf of the policyholders for Japan.
So thats important to us too.
And everyone seems happy at this point.
Okay.
And my second question is on Japan sales and youve talked about on this call and earlier calls sort of the benefit of staying in the first sector area in terms of your ability to sell third sector products.
But have you quantified that in other words if you decided to significantly scale down even incremental to what youre doing now for sector sales how big of an impact do you think that would have on your ability to sell third sector products? Well I'll just answer that for the time running out.
I think we're safe for this year.
We feel very comfortable with the quotas we set and what will take place.
As the year goes on and according to what interest rates do well have to review it but we're not going to be selling product at losses.
So we'll take it on and figure accordingly but that's a problem for the industry not just for us.
If it's affecting us it's affecting everyone else in the industry.
So what we've seen in the past is as interest rates stay down with these lower assumptions which is ultimately mean rate increase on the premiums.
So I would expect if rates continue to stay down then we probably have right increases on policies going forward and that would help solve part of our problem.
Let me add one thing and it's not on chattering but I think what will happen is that if the low interest rate environment continues youll see a migration way from the asset accumulation element of life insurance contracts or first sector contracts more to the protection element.
There is a need for protection in the first sector products.
And I think that that will become a larger part of the first sector products that we sell the pure insurance elements that are still required by policyholders and we may move more to protection product in first sector but I think well still do first sector.
And keep in mind that we sold the first sector products for a long time and we really started to see in spikes in first sector sales probably around 2010 when interest rates started moving the way they did and of course we had to respond to the truly low interest rate environment in 2013.
But if you kind of lopped off the spike in our sales youll see that we're about where we were pretty interest rate volatility.
So that's about it.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you very much and I will reiterate what Chris said several times that we will be having our Financial Analyst Briefing meeting in May.
It will be on May 21 in New York.
We hope to see you all there.
And please give us a call if we can help you with any of those details and we do have an online registration site.
And we appreciate you listening this morning and be sure to give us a call if we can follow-up with anything.
Thank you very much.
Bye bye.
Thank you.
And that conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Aflac Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session.
Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our second quarter call.
Joining me this morning from the US is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President of Aflac Incorporated; Paul Amos President of Aflac; Fred Crawford Executive Vice President and CFO of Aflac Incorporated; Teresa White President of Aflac US; and Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
From Tokyo also joining us today is Hiroshi Yamauchi President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Before we start let me remind you that some statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they're prospective in nature.
Actual results to differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that could materially impact those results.
Now I'll turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter as well as our operations in both the US and Japan.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us today.
Let me begin with an update on Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
I am extremely pleased that sales of the third-quarter products were up a whopping 25.2% for the second quarter and 23.3% year-to-date.
In addition to continued strong sales of our cancer insurance the new medical product we introduced last month has proven to be very attractive and what has become a very competitive market.
From a distribution standpoint Aflac Japan generated positive sales growth from all of our sales channels which lets us know we are focused in the right direction.
Our goal is to have a presence where consumers want to make their insurance purchase decisions and these results reflect our success in broadening our reach and our sales opportunities.
Keep in mind that Aflac Japan's fourth quarter sales of third sector products were up 28.5% thus making this year's fourth quarter a tough comparison.
Given strong third sector sales growth in the first half of the year and the positive reception to the enhanced medical product we now anticipate that sales of third sector products will increase between 7% to 10% for the full year.
This is much stronger than our original expectation and impressive given that are already leading market share position in the third sector products.
Now let me turn to our US operations.
I'm encouraged that the second-quarter sales improved over the first quarter results.
I believe that the changes we've made to our management infrastructure last year are setting the stage for bigger and better sales opportunities.
Additionally one day pay has generated a lot of excitement with our distribution channels accounts and policyholders.
Through the industry-leading claims initiative we are able to process approve and pay eligible claims in just one day.
This allows us to deliver on our promise to our policyholders even more meaningfully by getting cash in their hands faster than ever.
We continue to estimate that 70% of our policyholders can use One Day Pay for their claims.
In 2015 we expect to process nearly 2 million claims within the parameters of this initiative.
Along with our strong brand and relevant products I believe One Day Pay will continue to underscore the value of Aflac's products and ultimately help Aflac sales long-term.
At the same time 2015 continues to be a year of building an Aflac Group.
We are making progress with advancing our relationships and our potential business opportunities through insurance brokers and larger case market.
As our production through broker and larger employers grows we anticipate that sales will be driven progressively toward the fourth quarter which will magnify the seasonal pattern of our sales to a certain extent.
We continue to concentrate our efforts on increasing Aflac U.S.
sales 3% to 7% for the year.
Having covered operations let me turn to a topic I know is top of mind with the shareholders and that's capital deployment.
We remain committed to maintaining strong capital ratios on behalf of our policyholders.
We continue to believe our capital strength puts us in an excellent position to repatriate approximately JPY200 billion to United States for the calendar year 2015 which continues to reinforce our plan to repurchase $1.3 billion of the common stock in 2015 and places us in a good position for the next year as well.
As I've said at the financial analyst briefing in May we believe that over the next few years all else equal we'll have opportunities to increase the capital available for deployment.
Let me reiterate that our strong bias is the first to continue with our strong record of dividend growth; followed by repurchasing of our stock; and third disciplined investment in organic growth initiatives.
With the first half of the year complete I'm pleased with the company's results.
We have upwardly revised our target for 2015 operating earnings per diluted share to now be in the range of 4% to 7% on a currency neutral basis.
Historically the majority of the expenses have skewed more toward the end of the year.
However we have expedited some of the spending in the first half of the year and now believe expenses should lessen in the latter part of the year.
Of note some of the expense acceleration is driving strong growth rates and we are experiencing in Japan and expect to experience in the United States.
As always we are working very hard to achieve our earnings per share objective while also delivering on our promise to our policyholders.
Now let me turn to a topic I know you're eager to hear about.
As most of you know Fred Crawford has joined the Aflac team at the end of June as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
At our analyst meeting in May I shared how important it was that we bring in someone who not only has a new perspective but who as a leader also enriches our corporate culture.
Ultimately the corporate culture of our organization is a very important factor of leadership because it helps define the company's common goals objectives and standard of behavior that employees have come to count on.
Throughout Fred's three decades of financial leadership experience he has consistently demonstrated that he possesses the characteristics that we have been looking for and we believe he is the right man for the job.
Let me just say that he is off to a tremendous start at Aflac in terms of overseeing the financial management of the company's operations including global investments.
As you know Kriss is continuing his duties as President of the Corporation in addition he is working closely with Fred as he transitions to Aflac.
Fred has also been rolling up his sleeves and I can tell you that he fits right into Aflac.
Fred we are glad to have you.
Now Kriss is going to say a few words about the transition followed by Fred who will then turn it back over to Robin.
Kriss.
Think Dan.
First let me say I have been both privileged and blessed to have held CFO responsibility at Aflac for the last 23 years.
And I look forward to continuing to serve Aflac and all of its stakeholders including the investment community as President of Aflac Incorporated at the pleasure of Dan and the Board.
I've always wanted to transition my CFO duties at a time when Aflac is financially strong.
And today looking at our capital position and our earnings prospects I certainly believe that to be the case.
I'm pleased we were able to upwardly revise our EPS guidance for 2015.
We've performed at/or better than expected for the first six months and our outlook for the full year is more favorable than our original estimates.
Accordingly I believe Fred is joining us at a good time and I'm enjoying working with him as he transitions to his new responsibilities.
And let me tell you that Dan and I were immediately impressed with Fred during our interview process.
We believe his breadth and depth of experience as well as his exposure to the financial challenges that the industry faces gives him a perspective that will significantly benefit Aflac.
But equally important to this was Fred's history as an active partner with his previous CEOs.
I have complete confidence that Fred will capitalize on those experiences and fully meet our expectations of him as Aflac's next CFO.
So with that build up let me turn it over to Fred for a few comments.
Thinks Kriss and thank you Dan for the nice comments.
Let me start by thanking the entire management team here at Aflac for welcoming me into the Aflac family particularly Dan and Kriss who have built out a very comprehensive transition plan for me into the new CFO role.
It's a real privilege to be here.
Ever since I started with the company nearly a month ago it has been a whirlwind of meetings and activities directed toward gaining a deep understanding of the operations our strategy key initiatives and of course the key financial drivers.
I've had an opportunity to spend a productive week in Japan.
I also attended a sales force meeting in the U.S.
and countless briefing sessions at various -- with various areas of the organization especially on matters related to driving growth valuation and efficient capital management.
It's clear to me that here at Aflac we have a very high caliber level of people who are dedicated compassionate and who generally love what they do.
I've joined the company at a particular good time as a strategic planning process is underway and the 2016 financial planning process begins.
I will understandably play a more limited role on this call but as I immersed myself in operations investments and the financial details I look for to sharing my perspectives with you in the future periods.
I can assure you that under Dan and Kriss' leadership the team is laser focus on driving growth effectively deploying and delivering capital back to our shareholders and leveraging our platform here in the U.S.
and Japan.
So with that I'm very excited to be here and I look forward to more opportunities to interact with all of you.
And I will hand it back to Robin.
Robin? Thank you Fred and welcome.
I would like to go over some second quarter numbers this morning starting first with Aflac Japan.
Beginning with the currency impact for the quarter the Yen weakened against the Dollar 15.7%.
In reference to topline in the interims revenue as reported were flat for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the Yen revenues declined 1.4%.
In terms of the quarterly operating ratios benefits to total revenue declined slightly compared to last year going from 60.6 to 60.5 in the second quarter.
Excluding the impact of the weaker Yen the benefit ratio for the quarter would have been 61.3%.
Reinsurance had 110 basis points positive impact on the benefit ratio in the quarter.
The expense ratio in the quarter increased to 18.4% from 17.7%.
Expenses were in large part due to write-off -- software development costs related to modernization activity planned increased spending associated with upgrading of our system software in Japan and also promotional expenditures for our new medical product.
The pre-tax profit margin declined slightly during the quarter going from 21.7 to 20.1.
Excluding the impact of the Yen the pre-tax profit margin for the quarter would have been 20.1%.
With the retraction of the margin pre-tax earnings declined 3.1% in the Yen terms.
Excluding the Yen pre-tax earnings would have been 8.9% -- would've declined 8.9%.
Now let me turn to Aflac U.S.
where total revenues rose 1.9% for the quarter.
And looking at the operating ratios the benefit ratio was 47.7% compared to 48.1%.
The primary reason for this improvement was the continued favorable claims experience.
The operating expense ratio increased going from 31.6 to 32.8.
This increase is a result of increased spending on the U.S.
sales strategy as we've discussed before and is in line with our expectation.
Now looking at some of the other items non-insurance expense at the corporate level were 38 million compared to 51 million a year ago.
This decline reflects the impact of the extinguishment of the debt executed last quarter.
Parent company and other expenses were 20 million compared to 19 million in the second quarter 2014.
On a operating basis the corporate tax rate was 34.6 compared to 34.5 last year.
As reported operating earnings per diluted share before the Yen impact were 164 compared to 166 a year ago.
The weaker Yen decreased operating earnings by $0.14 per diluted share for the quarter.
Lastly let me comment and reiterate some of the statements Dan made.
We have upwardly revised the target obviously for 2015 and now expect operating earnings per diluted share to be in the range of 4% to 7%.
For the third quarter if the Yen averages 1.22 to 1.25 we would expect operating earnings to be in the range of 140 to 153 per diluted share.
Using the same currency assumptions for the full year we would expect to report EPS similar in the range of $5.88 or $6.17 per diluted share.
Before we take your questions I would like to take this opportunity to update everyone on a change to the timing of our earnings guidance practice.
After careful consideration we concluded the best practice would be to provide earning guidance in December for the following year in the form of a dedicated outlook call.
We believe this process better aligns us with the natural timeline of our financial planning process.
Additionally this practice also puts us more in line with the guidance disclosure practices of many of our peers.
Now we're ready to take your questions.
But first let me remind you to be fair to everybody please limit your questions to one initial question and only that's only one follow-up that relates to your initial question.
We will now take the first question please.
[Operator Instructions] The first question is from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Good morning everybody.
I wanted to focus on third sector products and specifically the new guidance.
Is the new guidance for the full year 2015 reflecting any changes to your fourth-quarter expectations or is it mostly driven by the first-half results and maybe expectations of stronger sales in the third quarter? This is Paul.
Let me say that certainly our first through third quarter's -- first two and performance third expected are running ahead of our expectations and so that is a considerable portion of the 7 to 10 target.
That said we do believe that we've improved modestly our fourth-quarter outlook.
Again we've only had a very short period of time in terms of seeing the medical sales of the new product that's just been launched.
And so I think I will have a better view on how the fourth quarter is going to be as we get to the third quarter call but I'm extremely optimistic about what's happening as Dan said in his opening remarks.
Were up across all channels and 7 to 10 increase in third sector reflects a much improved number over where we thought we would be coming into 2015.
Got it.
And then my follow-up.
Also still seen on the third sector product sales are you seeing any changes in the demographics that are buying the new product compared to what the traditional demographics has been? And also have you seen -- maybe can you offer some detail as to what portion of cancer products sold are coming from Japan Post? Yeah.
Unfortunately we cannot disclose or we do not disclose how much of the percentage that's coming from Japan Post.
What I can tell you what I said and what Robin has said is that we're up across all channels and that our cancer growth is not driven solely by Japan Post but instead by all channels.
In terms of the demographics theres somewhat similar to what we've seen in the past.
We are targeting younger customers by certain product lines and we've seen some movements because of that.
That said in the aggregate I would not tell you that that move has been significant up to this point.
Great thank you very much for the answers.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
I had a question on U.S.
sales and recruiting and the producer account.
Youve made a lot of changes in your sales infrastructure but we've seen a steady decline in recruiting in the agent count when do you expect the changes to start lifting recruiting and do you expect it in the fourth quarter when it's a heavy sales season or would it be more likely in 2016? This is Teresa.
So let me start by talking a little bit about the recruiting number.
The recruiting number consists of both broker recruits and career agents.
And on the broker side weve purposefully reduced the number of recruits there because our goal is to strengthen and deepen the relationships that we have with our current brokers.
We've hired 120 broker sales professionals and our goal is to continue to earn the business of each of those brokerage houses and to help them to grow their business.
Now and many of these are large brokerage houses that we have these relationships with.
So we knew that the business would skew towards the latter end of the year.
And we knew that we needed to start working on deepening relationships with these brokers.
So I feel good about that but that means that recruiting number will not be driven upward as steeply and the decline that you see in that recruited number is driven primarily by the broker recruits.
Now from the career perspective we will continue to work at increasing the number of career recruits.
Our goal there was to initially increase the number of district sales coordinators because in our field force those are the field hierarchy of coordinators who actually train those new recruits.
And we have increased the number of districts by 16%.
And so we are now seeing an increase in recruits as well.
For the second quarter it's around 3% 2.6% is what we are seeing increase in recruits.
So we have strategy certainly to continue to increase recruiting but our philosophy has changed somewhat on the broker side.
We do know that lower recruitment does not mean lower sales at this point in time because the broker business is growing and we are pleased with that.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Great thanks and good morning.
So my question is for Fred first congrats on your new position.
One of the key questions we get is how will the financial management of Aflac change if at all with you taking over as CFO so I know it's early but any priorities that you have which are perhaps a little different to where Aflac was previously focused? I think you should expect no -- certainly no sharp changes right or left from me.
One job one is really focused on understanding Aflac's operations and strategy.
My approach has always been the same at the companies I've worked at.
My ability to be effective in understanding the financials and particularly also capital development is everything about understanding the operations.
So where I've been spending most of my time is just getting a feel for the platform both here in the U.S.
and Japan.
I'm very privileged in taking over for one of the most respected CFOs in the industry who has spent a lot of time and years developing great people around him and great practices.
I fully expected I would arrive here and find a very solid financial operations and management and that's exactly what I found.
So really where my focus is going to be is really more contributing to really Aflac's focus on driving growth and taking the company to like the next level.
I think my observations of Aflac is that the good news is that we're dominant in the markets that we serve.
But at the same time that raises the stakes on driving future growth.
And we've got a lot of initiatives underway doing that and that's where my focus is going to be is understanding that and helping to interpret those strategies to how it matters to our financials and how its expected the flow-through.
So that's where I'm expecting to spend the lot of time.
But in terms of the core practices of the company they are very solid they are very familiar and I like what I see.
Great.
Thank you.
And I like to comment as a CEO.
Chris and Fred thought processes are much the same.
They are very thought provoking in their approach to everything that they do and the mutual respect that the two of them have for each other I have seen over the last month is only going to make our company stronger.
And I told Fred not to get the big hit but that he was exceeding our expectations and he certainly has been in all the eyes of the people that have worked with him so far.
I appreciate the color thanks.
The next question is from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Market.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
I was hoping to get some update or color on ongoing reinsurance transactions.
There was nothing no worthy there in the quarter so should we still be thinking about those as coming along and enabling that kind of you hitting the higher end of the capital deployment range you give it the FAB meeting in May? Randy Kriss.
You're pretty much on target there.
At FAB we indicated a range of deployable capital we expected to see over the next three years of somewhere in the neighborhood of 6.3 billion to 7.5 billion I told you at the low end of the range I didn't think we'd have to do much in the way of extraordinary capital raises either through reinsurance or other means to achieve that level of capital deployment.
Perhaps some modest level of reinsurance to get to the 7.5 we might have to do some other things.
We've got our year to the ground and the reinsurance market overall as you know we're pursuing ways to achieve cost effective cost efficient ways to reduce sterile capital particularly in the Aflac Japan operation we think we did that through our last transaction.
That exceeded a significant block of business in Japan but allowed us to recover our retrocession from the reinsure of 90% of the block to minimize the cost of that block.
And still achieve a significant reserve release in Japan.
We  we're talking with the reinsurance community about additional follow on opportunities of that nature.
We don't have anything in the works at the moment.
Nothing to announce.
But it's part of our planning process and we're continuing to flesh out the planning around sources and uses of capital.
And Fred and I have been having significant discussions along with Ken Janke in our planning for the future there.
But nothing in the pipeline at the moment nothing that you ought to expect here about in the near-term.
I guess the follow-up would be given the amount of capital in the reinsurance area in general and kind of the trajectory of the deals you've done which have gotten kind of each one has been better of the three major ones is that still the direction of the conversations you have with the reinsurers that the terms and conditions and circumstances continue to improve is that a fair way to think of it? That's our objective yes.
And we continue to explore the market to achieve that objective.
Thanks.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
The next question is from Erik Bass of Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Dan in your comments you had mentioned for the priorities for capital return.
You said dividends buyback from organic growth.
You discuss how you're thinking about M&amp;A a new level of interest in doing something particularly in the U.S.? I think that the price of insurance companies are through the roof.
And I can't possibly see in anything making any sense at this particular time.
The thing I could see are small things that would ultimately enhance our internal growth.
But like a CAIC type that makes us broader in our perspective.
So in terms of capital it wouldn't even be a blip on the screen.
It wouldn't even require a release it would be so small the things we're looking at.
So right now is not the time.
What we need to do is concentrate on what ultimately enhances shareholder value and that's growing our business internally and then doing share repurchase if that makes sense.
And then also increasing the dividends.
So I am staying in that area.
Thank you.
That's helpful color.
Just one more on the M&amp;A theme.
I guess as you're seeing more domestic Japanese companies look abroad for growth and do foreign M&amp;A.
Is there any change in their competitor behavior focus on the local market in Japan? I'll let Paul take that.
We closely follow all the Japanese domestics.
We see certainly sometimes different behavior between those that are mutual companies and those that are stock companies.
But in general they are following their overall strategic long-term plans allocating certain percentages of revenue they like to see outside of Japan.
But we don't believe in any way that's fundamentally changing the domestic marketplace.
We do however believe that our continued focus on Japan and the efforts that we're making there are allowing us to continue to execute better and better and I think that's evident in this quarter's numbers.
As we continue to keep our focus right in Japan and what we think the Japanese consumer needs.
All right.
Thank you.
The next question is from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
First can you talk about the key factors that led to your upward revision in 2015 EPS guidance? Yes Ryan I will cover that.
Basically we got the first six months under our belt things came in as I said at or somewhat better than planned in most particular areas.
I always like to say we've got a lot of moving parts in this organization and I have to expect some good variances from plan and some that are maybe not quite as favorable.
But net-net things that moved from plan netted out to be on track.
I will say that we had frontloaded expenses both in Japan and the U.S.
this year relative to where they were in the prior-year at least on a comparative basis.
In the U.S.
it was all continuing build-out of the change in the sales management model and alike in Japan we had planned to do some additional work in our IT areas in terms of building out some of the systems we are working on and the like.
Of course we ended up with that relatively modest write-down of some of the software developer costs we had previously incurred.
I'll tell you there are a lot of moving parts on that software development cost thing.
We are going to get a credit from the vendor that participated in doing that software development that'll benefit us in subsequent periods.
Credit somewhere between at least half of the amount of the write-down and we have some optionality in terms of when to take advantage of those credits.
But all of that being said we had a good solid first six months.
We think will be on plan or better for Japan and U.S.
benefits in the second six months.
We are ahead of plan to some extent in net investment income.
And of course we did that bond transaction to take out the 8% notes that we had outstanding.
Took them out and the combination of first and second quarter eliminated $850 million of bonds they carried an 8% coupon replace them with about $1 billion of debt.
They carried much lower net effective coupon rates and that's going to save us about $0.07 per share a little bit over 1% increase in EPS during the period.
So all of those things as netted together I mean the increase in guidance wasn't huge but it was an upper revision to indicate that we had a good plan for the year and we have confidence we are going to make it during the second part of the year.
Good sales help that too.
So that is about it from my perspective.
I don't know Dan if you want to add anything to that.
But that is the financial story I will let you follow-up if you want to.
You know I think he got it.
Thanks Kriss.
And then -- and my follow-up is just on the Japan new money rate it increased meaningfully to 3.76% in the quarter.
Can you talk about what drove that and how meaningful were the cash flows that were invested at that rate? Sure absolutely.
A big driver of that was as you recollect I talked about earlier in the year that most of our cash flows were back ended in the second half of the year.
And one large portion of those cash flows was again you recollect we had the flash crash of October 15 last year.
We sold about $1.2 billion of treasury but we opted to put that into yen or JGBs because we didn't like the dollar opportunity at the time.
We planned to bring that back to dollars during 2015 but we wanted to be opportunistic so not knowing exactly when that would be that was planned for July 1.
As you know during the second quarter tenure started at about 190 or 180 or so ended the quarter around 240.
And in early June hit around 245 250.
We opted to take about two-thirds of that money and allocated in June mostly to some investment grade corporate bonds and a little bit of high yield.
So we were opportunistic in terms of the timing planned for but we did a little earlier than we originally put in the budget of July.
So that was the big driver of that new money yield.
And as I had said last quarter we expected over the year this would iron out the first quarter was just because we focused primarily with the small amount we had on JGBs but we'd always planned on having a larger dollar allocation.
So I hope that helps.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
The next question is from Steven Schwartz with Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Just a couple of follow-ups on previous questions.
Teresa just so I'm clear here the recruited agent number the brokers these are like account managers that you're including in these numbers? Some guy working at Aon [ph] ? The recruited numbers are all recruits.
So broker recruits as well as career recruits.
So if an Aon example may have producers that are recruits as well so anyone with a license and it depends on the state but anyone with a license they are counted in this recruited number.
Okay.
Could you tell us what weekly average producers or monthly average producers what those comps would look like with regards to just the traditional career agency force? The numbers that you see actually in the FAB Sup I would say primarily are the sales force the career force.
One of the things that I've spoken with Robin about is as we skew more towards broker business that we need to re-look at how we present this information in the FAB Sup.
And the reason I'm saying that is the numbers that are represented here are primarily our sales our careers sales organization numbers.
So the weekly  average weekly producers average monthly producers and then we had brokers that were contracted as associates.
But as we have executed on our new broker strategy now we've started looking at brokers as a single entity in our system but they are not well represented here.
So the field force is still very very important to us and we're continuing to work with them on the less than 100  100 or less accounts.
But I don't think that I'm fairly representing the broker community on the FAB Sup and we plan to change that.
Okay.
And then a follow-up for Eric.
Eric if I get to the previous answer right basically the point is that it wasn't really new cash flows.
This was from premiums or whatever from the company.
This is just selling JGBs and trading those into dollars.
Primarily.
There is a little bit of new cash flow.
So when I speak of new money it's an accumulation from operations maturities calls the interest coupons things of that nature.
But the percentage breakdown is primarily from the JGBs coming back to dollars.
Okay.
Any sense of what we should be thinking about for the rest of the year for new money yield? We have a number of things in the pipeline.
It will be somewhere I would say between where we are now and much higher than 2%.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome The next question is from John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everybody and Dan I think I can probably speak for most of your shareholders when I say I'm really excited to hear that you believe 18 times forward earnings is a too high a price to pay for insurance company acquisitions.
Let me say that's from our standpoint.
I can't speak what other people would but from our standpoint we can't make it work.
But it'd be a good evaluation for Aflac.
All right.
Well yes it certainly would.
We have to [indiscernible].
The question I have for you is where did -- if you could just level set us on where the parent company cash position ended the quarter and how much of that 200 billion that you have planned to repatriate for the full year how much of that was taken through the first half of the year? Let's see I've got some of those numbers here John.
Total cash and cash equivalents were right out 1.4 billion but that was down from almost 2.5 billion at the beginning -- end of the first quarter because we refinanced and paid off those notes of a little over $1 billion during the quarter.
The cash available to shareholders which we count as the amount of cash that we actually got less $500 million minimum balance cash collateral amount and any debt refunding activities we've got that's closer to 400 million.
And we'll expect that to grow modestly during the third and fourth quarters as we receive additional amounts of repatriation.
We actually received 119 billion in July that wasn't included in that number at the end of the second quarter I gave you.
And we got another 50 billion planned or recover or received during the remainder of 2015.
Cash position is pretty good.
Absolutely.
Thank you.
Sufficient to support the share repurchase objectives anyway.
Yeah.
Understood.
And so I guess that sort of begs the question what are you looking to see in the back half of the year to give you maybe a little bit more confidence to think about that $1.3 million for 2015 being a higher number.
Well we think about it being 1.3 that's implicit in the guidance the revised.
We haven't really thought about it being a bigger number at this point.
But it's certainly possible depending on how things break that we would consider that if appropriate.
But we're not ready to say it's appropriate.
We're doing our cash planning our earnings planning et cetera et cetera and the updated guidance we gave you which is toward the high end of the original guidance is as far as we going to go right at the moment.
Okay understood.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Humphrey Lee with Dowling &amp; Partners.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my call.
Just a question about waste sales in Japan.
It was up 36% in the quarter to 5.6 billion if I recall correctly the highest level since late 2013.
I understand the product is being repriced and you're using it to maintain relationship.
I'm just kind of wondering what is the return on the reprise waste products and what kind of new money yield you need to achieve that return? Well this is Paul.
Let me start on first sector broadly.
And say that first sector as we promised we were going to actively manage is down again 11.8% in the quarter and down 21.1% year-to-date.
We did as a part of our strategy re-price and redevelop part of the WAYS product our BR product really focused on 15-year and longer first and foremost to help handle any disintermediation risk; second of all to target a potentially younger customer and we've already seen in the first quarter a lower average age of issue as a result; and finally as we've discussed or I've discussed at FAB as an accommodation to our agency sales force.
Keep in mind several of our large channels don't even offer first sector generally whether it's Daido Dai-Ichi or Japan Post.
But through our bank channel we continue to monitor in cap sales of first sector products.
But as our exclusive agencies depend solely on Aflac for their products and they continue to do a great job creating cross-selling between first sector sales and third sector sales we continue to work with them to develop product that we think can meet our needs as well as meet the needs of growing our third sector sales in Japan.
I'll turn it back over to these guys to talk about the expected profit margin and the overall rate for interest.
Well I'll make a brief comment on that.
As you know we've continued to operate in historically low interest rate environment in Japan.
That's led us to being cautious and disciplined relative to our sales practices.
In today's interest rates we're looking at mid-single-digit profitability as a percent of premium on the WAYS business produced today if those low interest rates continue on for the full premium period of the policy.
As Paul mentioned we extended the premium period for the new version of WAYS from pretty much a 10-year minimum to a 15-year minimum call.
That produces over a premium rate in each year we collect a premium it gives us a longer period of time to yen average or dollar average invested interest rates during the time we receive the cash from the product.
And at today's interest rates again historic lows if those persist throughout the premium period of the policy we expect to come in mid-single digits which is not really consistent with our company objective.
We're optimistic or hopeful that interest rates will improve somewhat over time and will get the benefit of investing some of the future cash flows at somewhat higher interest rates but that remains to be seen.
All that being and said we do believe that it's in our corporate interest to maintain the agency relationships with the channel we've developed to continue to promote the cross-sale of third sector products which we're pretty good at and just monitor conditions as we continue to accept business.
So it's not a rosy picture at current interest rates but we're trying to just keep the distribution system afloat at this point.
I see WAYS a little bit like a contest for salespeople.
You've got to keep whether we're trying to find a way to enhance sales of the third sector.
One way that we're enhancing sales is that they feel like they need this WAYS product or a product to have a broad enough portfolio.
And so we give up some on profit margin but whether we had had a sales contest that cost us a lot of money to increase third sector or whether or not we took a little bit lower profit margin on the life insurance product it still ultimately our objective is not to grow WAYS our objective is to grow third sector.
And the numbers reflect what's going on in Japan that we are in fact growing third sector and growing it dramatically.
No one with the profit margin we've got with the market share we've got is expected in a 12 month period to grow over 25% which is what we are growing right now.
This is helpful.
Just a quick follow-up on that is do have any kind of sales cap on the WAYS product through your agency channel? We encouraged certain products of first sector products to be sold at lower levels through our agency channel by either not entering the production credit we give them or taking away certain elements of the product related to that channel.
Specific to the new WAYS product we are focused on helping them and allowing them to sell that 15 year and longer because we believe as Chris pointed out it has some advantageous elements to the overall sales.
But as we've cited we have to be very careful in taking away products from exclusive provider because they would obviously have the opportunity to become non-exclusive and offer other companies products which would damage our relationship with them should we determine that we were no longer going to offer any first sector products but strictly managing products like child endowment and annuity has been something we have been heavily focused on.
But Paul's answer is yes and your real question is what if interest rates go lower.
And the answer is we can control it if we need to.
Okay got it.
Thanks.
The next question is from Colin Devine with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
[indiscernible] with respect to your comments about Fred I didn't realize Fred was quite as old given how long he has been around this business.
Getting older every day Colin.
These markets can do that to you.
It's not the years it's the mileage.
It's the truth.
For Dan and Kriss you know the growth rate of the premiums and forth has continued to slow in both Japan and the US.
And how much of the concern is that to you and I guess by extension is that really reflecting what we're seeing with some of the recruiting challenges and what's it going to take to turn this around? Well of course the sheer size of Japan is a challenge.
I believe that the things that we're doing in the United States you asked me so I am going to answer it Teresa could answer it but I'm going to answer it is that I still believe the US has enormous potential.
I believe some of the things that we're doing specifically last year at this time for the first nine months since we put it in we are up about 6.7%.
That's still doesn't excite me too much.
I want to see double digits.
But I think were doing the right thing in that regard.
Our specific areas of the country about 40% of them were up prior to these changes.
And now about 60% of them are up.
So they're moving in the right direction.
So I'm hoping that as we see now national healthcare or Obama Care pretty well set every ruling every everything the people have far is kind of over now people will lock in and become used to that.
It's here to stay and I think that will ultimately broadens our opportunity to grow our business.
But we have got to grow new sales.
And I make no doubt about that.
And so we'll continue to work that way.
...with respect to Japan too.
Okay.
I'll make a few comments on Japan.
Colin I'll say that the financial guys look at increasing profitability more than they look at increasing premiums and force.
And some of that today is a discipline.
You know we have had input on from the investment community over the last several years 2010 2011 2012 we wrote a lot of per sector premiums.
In my opinion it had good profit margin.
And I'm convinced we added significantly to the value of the enterprise and grew our profits with first sector products.
But we got a lot of push back from the investment community saying we don't want you to grow those large premium policies.
Those more investment oriented products.
So it wasn't solely that input that cost us to push back but it was partly that input that cost us to push back some in the first sector.
And so we've reemphasized our core business third sector products that cover the body instead of being investment oriented or life insurance oriented more.
And we're concentrating on growing that and I think redirecting the efforts of our distribution system.
The third sector is leading to significant increases in growth.
You know the fact of the matter is you've got a certain persistency or lapse rate that's just associated with the market and you lose a certain amount of business through lapses and your net gross based on how much new production you can have that offsets the lapses and force.
And as we get bigger and bigger and bigger in terms of your legacy block the lapses become bigger and more new businesses is required.
So we've got a balancing act going on Colin.
But our final focus is on enhancing profitability and value of the company for the shareholders.
I don't worry quite as much about the metric of premiums and force as I do profit growth.
So I'm going to leave it there and let you push back if you want.
For sure.
You would be disappointed if I didn't.
So Kriss if we take that the pre-tax margin seems to pretty much stabled in around 21% but the ROE has continued to significantly drop over the last five or six or seven years.
Where do you see the ROE stabilizing out for Aflac Japan? Well you say it has significantly dropped for the last few years.
Back in 2009 2010 it was off the charts.
I think above the 41%.
Well I don't know I hadn't...
Pre-tax...
41% -- okay.
Pre-tax maybe you're right.
All I know is we are in the far upper right hand corner of every chart I ever see relative to companies producing ROEs and right now on an operating basis excluding all the unrealized gains and losses and excluding the effect of currency our ROEs are still in excess of 20%.
I think they were like 23.1 or something like that.
That was a number.
I happen to remember that number because I kind of like those ROEs.
That was it for the second quarter on an operating basis.
Darn one thing we determined when we were interviewing CFO candidates is every person we interviewed told us that one thing that attracted them to talking to us was our profitability metrics and our returned metrics.
Our margin metrics our ROE metrics they say gosh my company sits around and lusts after your metrics.
It's really attractive situation.
So I'm sensitive to what you're saying about ROE declines and quite frankly the first sector business if it produces mid to single-digit profit margin that's going to carry a lower ROE and I admit that.
But that's not where we want to end up ultimately.
I think will maintain the operating ROEs.
Our internal range is to hit somewhere in the 16% to 24% range that's what we get paid on.
So that's what we're managing for and quite frankly 20%'s is our target.
And if we don't get that we get penalized financially.
That's where I'm trying to keep things.
Colin I will give you a couple observations from my perspective.
First we always want to try to drive those core valuation metrics nor where we can and if we can but interestingly enough what I think is also happened over the last several years with Aflac is our cost of equity has come down as a company is gotten bigger stronger stable and not quite honestly I'm looking across the table at Eric Kirsch.
Eric has grabbed on to the general account and managed the risk more carefully around the exposures that we have.
The volatility and prospects of volatility for the company are down considerably and so I think ROE may have trickled down over time but certainly cost of equity has also come down too where we're still generating the kind of value that you would expect.
And I would second that Kriss is talking about in part some comments I made when I was first talking with the company.
All candidates just made them.
It was important to us...
Well it's true though.
But the thing that interesting about that is it goes back to also Dan's comments on M&amp;A.
I mean the bar is set extremely high here at Aflac.
Because right now when we buy back our stock we are effectively buying back into a high returning company at zero premium.
And that 's a very valuable thing to do.
And when we look at deploying excess capital build often wins over by when you're looking at a premium.
And really what we are excited about is driving more competition for investing organically in our growth model.
And that's a very promising thing when you're driving good returns.
So it's  were in a good position I think all the way around.
Just to clarify one thing Kriss you mentioned the 16% to 23% ROE range were you talking pre or post-tax? Post.
Okay clarification is important.
Thank you because we were on pre-tax.
And net tax income over equity as defined in the financial.
A feel of that just might of had a heart attack when you were talking pre so thank you.
While I don't talk pre-tax.
Well I guess profit margins are pre-tax but ROE is always after tax.
Yes okay.
Thank you.
We have the next question is from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
I guess in a similar line of questioning just wanted to go down the path of earnings growth.
And Dan if I think about what's happening with Japan sales right now it seems like things have reflected in a positive way certainly from a pure number standpoint.
And if I go back historically Aflac has had we'll call it at least a year lag between when sales start to influence earnings.
Now I think you have a new wrinkle here though in your model in that you have this first to third sector sales transition which is clouding that connection.
So I guess taking all that together do you think we have -- we may also see an EPS inflection along with this Japan sales growth inflection or do you think that's still several years out considering this other transition that is occurring? Well let me just say let's don't forget that life sales were down 11% and you can't breakout just ways because it is all part of it together.
So I want to point that out.
Kriss said he wants to take it so I'll since this is the last one will let Kriss take it and if you have a follow-up I will answer.
Tom all I wanted to do is to point out that a lot of our costs are step costs and major.
They don't directly vary with the production of the business.
They are very similar between first and third sector of products and certainly some percentage of the costs are in fact very bold but the way we manage cost particularly with in Aflack Japan is I will say independent of the source of the production etc.
etc.
are staffing models are built around certain things and we don't have a lot of fluctuation in personnel or staffing levels over say a six month period.
We'll adjust depending on trends and the like but I can pretty much count on the Aflac Japan management team to come in with their expense plan we established at the beginning of the year.
And one of the ways I disciplined that expense plan is by setting the growth in their general operating expenses generally at about an increased level of about one half the increase in the premium income.
That's my objective that's we'll start out with them.
And so that adds some discipline to the process.
It gives them some variability in their premiums.
If premiums vary I let their expense targets vary.
But in general more of our costs are step in nature and not directly variable.
So that tends to lead to some stability of profits regardless of variations and production over a short span of time which I'd say is six months or so.
As we end this call I want to say one thing because Aflac Japan is on the other end.
Because you are all analysts and shareholders I couldn't be prouder of the job that Aflac Japan is doing.
I mean to realize the market share we have to realize a profit margin we have and to realize the sales increase we have now pulled for the fourth first and second quarter is just stellar.
I hope all of you will take note of that and realize because I will put them up as bragging rights against anybody.
There's always in a quarter some good and some bad and sometimes you have really bad news.
Fortunately we've had very little over our history but sometimes you really have good news and I'm here to say we've got good news about Aflac Japan and what's going on and we are proud of them.
So with that we'll turn back to Robin Thank you and I appreciate everybody participating today.
If you have any follow-up questions I will be in the office so please give me a call.
And thank you for being on the call today.
Thank you for your participation on today's conference.
All parties may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Aflac's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Good morning and welcome to our third quarter call.
Joining me this morning in the U.S.
is Dan Amos our Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President of Aflac Inc.; Fred Crawford Executive Vice President and CFO of Aflac Incorporated; Teresa White President of Aflac U.S.
and Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also from Tokyo joining us is Paul Amos President of Aflac; Hiroshi Yamauchi President and COO of Aflac Japan.
Now before we start let me remind you that some of the statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Although we believe these statements are reasonable we can give no assurance that they will prove to be accurate because they are prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ martially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that can materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn the program over to Dan who will begin with some comments about the quarter as well as our operations in both the U.S.
and Japan.
Following Dan's comments Fred will follow up with some brief comments about our financial performance for the quarter.
Dan? Yeah.
Thank you Robin and good morning.
And thank you for joining us.
Let me begin with an update of Aflac Japan our largest earnings contributor.
I'm extremely pleased that sales of the third sector products were up an astonishing 34.5% for the third quarter and 27.1% year-to-date.
Aflac Japan generated strong sales results from all of our sales channels which confirms that we focused on the right facets of our business.
We also continue to work closely with Japan Post to enhance our partnership as demonstrated by the recently announced initiative to foster enhanced communications with the growing elderly population in Japan.
Our goal is to have a presence where consumers want to make their insurance purchase decisions and our quarterly and year-to-date results reflect our success in broadening our reach and our sales opportunities.
I want to remind you that Aflac Japan's 2014 fourth quarter sales of third sector products were up 28.5% thus making this year's fourth quarter a tough comparison.
However given the very strong sales results in the first nine months and our expectations for the remainder of the year we are upwardly revising our sales growth target for the third sector products from the range of 7% to 10% to 10% to 13% for the full year.
Now let me turn to the U.S.
operations.
From a financial perspective Aflac U.S.
also performed very well in the quarter.
Additionally we have continued to receive phenomenal feedback from our distribution channels our policyholders and accounts on One Day Pay our industry leading claims initiative.
One Day Pay allows us to process approve and pay eligible claims in just one day.
In particular we're hearing from policyholders and consumers that our commitment to paying claims fast through One Day Pay underscores Aflac's integrity and commitment delivering on our promise.
Thus enhancing our brand reputation and ultimately opening even more doors for Aflac.
We continue to estimate that 70% of our policyholders can use One Day Pay for their claims.
In 2015 we expect the number of claims processed within the One Day Pay will reach over 2 million people.
Along with the strong brand and relevant products I believe One Day Pay will continue to drive home the value of Aflac's products and most importantly it will help our sales long term.
Although our U.S.
segments generated a slight increase in sales I believe 2015 has been a year of building our business through our career and broker channels.
Taking into account our results for the first nine months and our expectations for sales for the quarter we anticipate Aflac U.S.
will generate sales growth at the lower end of the 3% to 7% range for the year.
While it's been a year of building I am not satisfied with these results.
In fact I won't be satisfied until we see our sales growth more in the range of the mid-single digits which I believe is reasonable and achievable.
It is very difficult for us to make sales projections for the quarter or even for the year because around half of our sales will come in the last five weeks of the year.
But I can tell you that the changes we've made to our management infrastructure over the last year are laying the groundwork for better long-term sales prospects.
And we continue to invest in our platform to position us for growth.
As we look to 2016 I think the groundwork we laid in 2015 has put us in a better position for 2016.
Shortly Fred will comment on the financial and capital deployment but let me just say that I am pleased with the actions by the board of directors to increase the quarterly cash dividend by 5.1%.
This marks the 33rd consecutive year of increasing cash dividend.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at a rate generally in line with the increase in the operating earnings per diluted share before the impact of foreign currency translation.
Let me leave you with this thought; you've already heard me say that my job is to balance the interest of all stakeholders.
I think we did a good job of that this year just as we have in the past.
And I believe that we're going to do it again next year by delivering on our promise to our policyholders and returning significant capital to our owners.
Now I'll turn it over to Fred.
Fred? Thank you Dan.
You've all had a chance to review our earnings release.
I'll focus my brief comments on a few earnings items worthy of note in the quarter adding color on key earnings drivers capital conditions and deployment as we enter the fourth quarter.
Our third quarter results came in at the high end of our earnings guidance.
Along with solid overall results there are two earnings items that contributed to our better-than-expected performance.
The first item was in Japan where we continue to see overall favorable claims trends.
While we review our IBNR every quarter we take a more comprehensive annual look at trends and claims studies in the third and fourth quarter.
Reflecting on our favorable claims experience this year and as a result of this review we concluded it was appropriate to reduce the IBNR reserves for our cancer insurance block of business by approximately 4.2 billion or roughly $35 million before taxes.
We have not completed our yearend actuarial reviews but at this point we do not see or anticipate any material fourth quarter adjustments.
The second driver was in our U.S.
business where we have been steadily improving our customer billing and collection procedures.
These improvements have resulted in better collection experience and allowed us to refine our uncollected premium allowance estimate.
The catch-up portion of this adjustment helped improve our rate of earned premium growth in the quarter and contributed approximately $8 million to pre-tax earnings.
While these items contributed approximately $0.06 to $0.07 per share to the quarter's results overall our Japan and U.S.
operations enjoyed solid margins with adjusted benefit ratios favorable to our expectations and as compared with last year's quarter.
As we expected expense ratios were modestly elevated as we continue to invest in our platforms to generate growth namely IT and new product introduction in Japan and our distribution model in the U.S.
Turning to investments while we have been successful in defending net investment income the overall low-rate environment remains a clear headwind and shows no signs of abating.
We have natural maturities and higher coupon investments that are running off with proceeds reinvested at lower yields.
We continue our efforts to build a position in diversified asset classes helping to support higher returns compared to low yields in Japan and the U.S.
We took a larger-than-normal impairment in the quarter involving our investment in Navient Corp.
Navient is a publicly traded student loan administrator formerly part of Sallie Mae.
While we don't believe there are any near-term risk of default the majority of these holdings are long-dated and yen denominated with poor liquidity.
As a result these holdings trade at a deep discount.
At roughly $0.50 on the dollar we felt it prudent to take impairment.
Note that the majority of these securities are held in our Japan portfolio and are rated below investment grade.
As a result any decline in value has been reflected for Japan SMR purposes for several quarters.
The impairment has no material impact on our overall capital position and deployment plans.
Turning to capital we expect SMR and RBC ratios to remain strong.
Between dividends and repurchase we returned just over $400 million to our shareholders in the quarter and expect to fulfill our guidance of $1.3 billion in repurchases for the year.
Our dividend increase is in line with our expectation for full year 2015 operating earnings per share growth excluding the impact of currency.
I would note that despite continuing weakness in the yen our excess capital position and stable view of capital generation supports the increase.
Before I turn the call back over to Rob and for Q&amp;A I'd like to comment on our earnings guidance.
Our fourth quarter guidance simply solves for our full year 2015 EPS guidance range of $5.96 a share to $6.16 a share given our year-to-date results.
As we look to the fourth quarter and proceed through our financial planning process we see the following dynamics influencing our performance.
Recognizing the effect of our past reinsurance transactions in Japan we see earned premium in Japan and the U.S.
increasing in the low single-digit range with stable persistency.
We see core Japan and U.S.
benefit ratios holding strong around current levels after normalizing for the Japan IBNR reduction in the quarter.
The maturity of high yielding investments reinvested at lower new money rates will continue to pressure net investment income although modestly offset by a strategic asset allocation and recognizing a bias towards higher quality.
The growth we are experiencing in Japan required disciplined investment in customer care product and distribution expansion.
We see the same dynamic evolving in the U.S.
in order to drive more robust growth rates.
Our strong capital position and deployment efforts will continue to provide support for EPS growth.
Our capital generation is strong and we continue to explore the potential to release additional excess capital.
Absent attractive alternatives we expect to drive long-term value in repurchasing our stock.
These dynamics are generally consistent with our performance in 2015.
We look forward to providing more details on our December third outlook call.
Thank you and I'll now turn the call back to Robin to begin Q&amp;A.
Thank you Fred.
Now we're ready to take your questions.
But first let me remind you that to be fair to everybody please limit yourself to one initial question and only one follow up that relates to that initial question.
All right we're now ready to take the first question please.
Our first question comes from Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
First I just had a question on your relationship with the Japan Post and how do you think it will be affected by the IPO like do you expect them to be a little bit more proactive in selling Aflac's policies? And what's the risk that down the road as the Post looks to maximize its profits that they could try to get more commissions out of the companies that they sell products for or maybe do away with exclusive distribution relationships.
So just if you could address how the relationship with the Post could change post the IPO.
Paul? Global Operations</span></strong> This is Paul.
First of all we see our overall relationship with Japan Post continuing to be very strong.
I'll ask Yamauchi-san to weigh in on the recent announcement of the two different points that are very different between the United States and Japan of that partnership.
But overall I do believe that our partnership through the IPO is something that has been very consistent.
They are very proud of the work that has happened in the partnership between Aflac and Japan Post and we have no reason to believe that there will be any pressuring on margins or change in commissions.
I think at this point we are focused highly on continuing to grow the distribution through the now fully expanded 20 000 post offices and we continue to focus on executing through the new cancer plan that both  was specifically developed for Japan Post as well as the regular product that they're also selling.
Aflac Japan Co.
Ltd.</span></strong> Thank you Paul.
Well let me add a few comments in Japanese.
[Foreign Language] (15:00-15:10).
Well in terms of the business alliance of JP that he just referred to this may be something very specific to Japan.
As you know Japan is an aging society.
[Foreign Language] (15:20-15:22).
And the families are becoming more nuclearized.
[Foreign Language] (15:25-15:37).
So what the FSA or the society overall is really demanding for an insurance company is that we really need to check up on whether the policyholders these older policyholders are still alive or not.
[Foreign Language] (15:51-16:04).
And since as you know Japan Post has its mail delivery network across Japan what we like to do is to use their network to check up on our policyholders.
[Foreign Language] (16:15-16:30).
And if we try to do everything on our own within Aflac it is going to require a lot of work.
However with the cooperation with JP we will be able to achieve the same purpose in a relatively easier manner.
[Foreign Language] (16:44-16:52).
And one other point this is probably more specific to Japan as well is that any notice that needs to be sent from an insurance company to policyholder has to be done by mail.
[Foreign Language] (17:03-17:12).
However when the policyholder changes their addresses we will not know the new address until our policyholders tells us so.
[Foreign Language] (17:22-17:38).
So in overall it will lead to increasing the services to our customers because the JP the post offices will know that our customers' address has changed because they are delivering the postal mails to them and that will make it easier for us to know where the policyholders are.
[Foreign Language] (17: 56-18:11).
We do believe this is a great alliance because we are using the strength and what the JP does best in their way and we are making leverage out of what JP is doing and that will also benefit us and serve our policyholders as well.
That is it from me.
Let me say Jimmy you can tell Yamauchi is very encouraged about this new announcement with the elderly but the answer to your question is just simply it's going as well or better than we expected and we see nothing but good things ahead in the future.
Yeah.
And they've been through their IPO process.
I think they have been talking up the potential opportunity to sell more products for companies such as yours.
I was just concerned about the long-term risk if they try to given their distribution breadth maybe go after the underwriters and ask them for more commissions or try to open up the distribution to additional underwriters.
But I guess we'll see how that evolves over time.
Well at this particular point we are very happy with the arrangements and they are too.
And maybe if I could ask just one more.
On U.S.
sales given your results I was a little surprised that you didn't actually end up lowering your guidance.
So to what extent do you see that goal as achievable for this year versus it being somewhat of a stretch? Aflac U.S.</span></strong> This is Teresa.
From a U.S.
perspective we have a lot of moving parts going on.
As Dan said in his talk we are rebuilding that distribution and restructuring.
We feel good about some things that we are seeing.
We have looked at all of the markets.
We're assessing market book of business how they're managing those markets training programs recruiting practices and we're driving consistency and collaboration across the broker and career channels.
So we feel good about what we're doing.
It's taken a little bit longer for us to get there longer obviously than we would like.
But we are seeing more markets that are achieving the 5% increase in year-over-year sales.
There's been a tremendous amount of change in the way our business is coming in.
And I think Dan spoke a little bit about that.
We know that we're going to get a tremendous amount of business in the fourth quarter and I think we've been saying that from the beginning.
So we're reviewing a lot of our modeling to project that.
So we feel pretty good about the low end of the range and we see a lot of activities within the markets that look positive to us at this point.
Yeah Jimmy we've got to have an 8% increase in the fourth quarter.
The real change here is the way this broker business comes in it all now comes in in the fourth quarter.
And it makes me nervous and Teresa and everybody else nervous will it come through.
And we've got a pipeline that we know what's out there and we know there's more business out in the pipeline this year than in previous years because this really started a year ago as you saw we were up 14% in the fourth quarter of last year.
So we're not sure how good that pipeline is but our gut tells us that it should be and that we're expecting a good fourth quarter but we'll have to monitor it and see.
And as I said in the call the last five weeks of the fourth quarter will bring in as much business or close to as much as  probably 45/55 as it did in the first eight weeks.
So we won't know till the end of the quarter.
But we do like what we're seeing in the pipeline from a broker perspective and what will take place.
And then also our 100 or less that we're writing in our Columbus in career is really working well and Teresa is doing a good job in that area and I'm very pleased with that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you speaker.
Our next question is from Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks very much.
With regard to the Japan margin I believe it was mentioned that we should expect the margin to stay mostly unchanged and excluding the benefit that we saw in 3Q from the reserve release.
Can you walk us through that a bit more? Thanks Jay.
This is Fred.
So where my comments were coming from first the adjustment in the quarter let's make sure we understand that.
So this was an adjustment to IBNR reserves related to our cancer business in Japan.
And more specifically it was related to a subset of our IBNR that relates to what we characterize as tail related claims.
So these would be longer duration claims or estimate of claims emerging typically longer than three years out.
It's a relatively small portion of the total IBNR that we hold for cancer but it's one that periodically as in at least once a year we do a more thorough examination of and test based on the trends we've been seeing in recent years.
And so as you can see our trends have been very good on the overall claims front.
And so when we put these reserves these particular tail reserves under review we comfortably determine that there was margin in those reserves and we should take them down.
So that's the 4.2 billion reduction that I referenced.
And then I'm asking you to pull out if you will to think about the benefit ratios going forward.
So my comments on the stability of benefit ratios is to first recognize that we have multiple businesses as you know in Japan that have different benefit ratios and different benefit ratio and claims trends.
But overall when we pile them altogether and look at the overall Japan benefit ratio dynamic we expect stability but stability in third sector particularly as you pull out that IBNR on the cancer side.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate that.
The fourth quarter guidance seemed to show roughly the same trend as those in 3Q from an earnings power basis even including that $0.06 to $0.07 you called out.
Do you expect any one-timers in 4Q? Or is the run rate of earnings power just getting better as we continue through the year? Yes I think first of all we have a relatively wide margin EPS margin for the fourth quarter and that's really the result of two things: one somewhat solving for the full year guidance range which creates a larger fourth quarter range.
The second is of course we have a range naturally based on our assumption for what the yen may do.
We think in terms of the range being dictated by yen between 120 and 125.
So that creates a wider range.
But part of the reason we wanted to walk you through a couple of the normalizing items in the quarter was so that you could really roll forward our results in a fairly consistent way.
So at the moment our expectation is for stability in the key earnings drivers as we roll forward and we would leave it at that.
At this point in time I don't know enough to know what I would characterize as one-timers.
The only comment I made is that we do do more thorough actuarial reviews in the third and fourth quarter and as we sit here today we don't see any material adjustments coming from those reviews but it's still early in the process.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So the fourth quarter guidance range obviously it's reflective of the range in the yen like you've talked about before but it's essentially solving for the full year guidance range.
That's right.
That's right.
Inc.</span></strong> ...which hasn't changed.
I got the sense that it had pointed higher but I guess I was wrong on that.
All right thank you.
Jay you need to look at last fourth quarter too and that will give you some sense of really where it's going.
Well just to make a comment.
So year-to-date we have grown  holding constant the yen we've grown our operating earnings per share by about 2.9%.
We've got guidance out there full year guidance of 4% to 7%.
Realize the fourth quarter last year though was a somewhat reduced earnings per share by virtue of accelerated expenses or accelerated spend.
So it had a disproportionate weighing down on that EPS.
So again my view is as we sit here today my comments were rolling forward and really consistency and stability in the earnings drivers as we sit here today and roll forward into the fourth quarter and I don't see at the moment don't see any sharp moves but again it's very early in the quarter and I'm really talking specifically to the actuarial work not so much other items that may appear naturally in a quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question is from Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Great thanks and good morning.
With Japan sales the strength in third sector was certainly very encouraging but the growth in first sector was perhaps a little surprising.
Back at Investor Day you talked about those being down 25% to 40% and how you had very limited appetite for those products given the very low-rate environment.
But still seems like you're writing a fair amount of it.
Sales this quarter were up 6%.
So just hoping you can discuss what's going on there.
You know...
Global Operations</span></strong> Let me...
Go ahead Paul.
Global Operations</span></strong> Go ahead Fred.
Well I'll just make a couple comments and then Paul can provide more of the strategic color on it.
But first we monitor the sale of these products first sector products very carefully because the returns on those products can be very sensitive to the interest rate environment as you point out but also your investment strategy backing these products.
And so even though the interest rate environment is very low it's always possible that our investment strategies and you've seen recently that particularly in the third quarter we've been able to descend our new money rates and put money to work at relatively attractive levels albeit headwinds are definitely in the marketplace.
And so they're very sensitive to that type of investment strategy.
But more importantly we've really made moves to really focus the type of product that we're selling to deemphasize lump-sum premium or so called dump-in premium-type product and also product that is sold particularly in the bank channel where it's more of a spread-sheeted environment and a competitive landscape.
Those things coupled with the interest rate and investment market could make for volatile returns or challenging returns and so we want to deemphasize that.
Where we're emphasizing is the longer pay products which gives us more possibility of putting money to work at attractive levels.
It also tends to attract more of a protection orientation versus investment orientation.
And most importantly it's being driven through the traditional channels which support cross-sale activity.
And again recognizing once you're into cross-sale activity you're trying to look at the overall blended return on a household which includes the returns on these products plus third sector products.
So we're monitoring it very carefully.
You're absolutely right there was a rise in our sales but it's largely coming through the traditional channel largely coming through longer pay premium products and involving cross-sale.
So Paul you can maybe expand or add? Global Operations</span></strong> You nailed it.
Okay.
That's great.
That's one reason our cancer sales are up so much in the traditional channel too.
It's not limited to just the Post.
We've also seen a big movement in our traditional channel in terms of sales.
So they're tied together.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question is from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Can you comment on how sales of the new medical product in Japan have compared to your expectations? I think typically we've seen with the new product introductions there tends to be a little bit bigger jump in sales.
So if you could just comment on how this feature has been received and how you would expect sales to ramp from here? Global Operations</span></strong> This is Paul.
The sales do meet our expectations.
What we didn't expect in all likelihood was the continued success of our cancer plan.
But Ariyoshi-san who is the head of sales and marketing in Japan directed our sales force to continue to push hard on the overall cancer sales while also focusing to some extent on the medical sales.
So within our range of expectations we are happy with how it turned out.
We do believe the medical product will continue to grow in its sales.
But right now we're very happy with how long the cancer product has continued to sell at such strong increases.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
And then following up on your comments earlier about moving the sales guidance up for Japan third sector sales.
Was that driven more by the strength that you've seen in year-to-date sales or are you now expecting fourth quarter sales to be stronger hold up better than you had initially expected? Global Operations</span></strong> Well I think we put out a 15% expectation for the first three quarters of the year and we came in considerable higher than that almost double that.
And so it is in part driven by the success in the first half of the year and the 34.5% sales that we had in the third quarter.
That said we are also seeing somewhat better trends in the fourth quarter.
We're mindful of where those are going so far but we're happy and I think that the 10% to 13% is reflective of improvement on both.
You know I can't remember.
I've been around here a long time.
I can't remember 12 months of a 28% increase in sales in Japan in a long long time.
And that's what we've got from October 1 through September 30 here.
So we're just so proud of the job they're doing at Aflac Japan with that.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question is from Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Your line is now open.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi thanks.
Good morning.
I know you can't give any specific numbers on this but in regards to the Japan Post have you seen much of a sales contribution from the second 10 000 post offices at this point that were rolled out in July or is that really all future benefit to come going forward? Global Operations</span></strong> This is Paul.
I very much appreciate what you're trying to get at but just based on our partnership deal we do not continue to give out those numbers.
We did communicate to you at the FAB Dan specifically talked about the fact that the first 10 000 post offices represented a much larger proportion of the potential sales than did the second 10 000 post offices.
But what I can just tell you is right now we're very much in line with what we want to see in the Japan Post partnership and we're very happy with how things are progressing.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
And then on the U.S.
can you give some more color on the U.S.
claim trends? I think generally they've been running somewhat favorably.
But Fred you commented that you believe that margins can be sustained there.
Can you just comment a little on the underlying drivers there? Yes.
Essentially there's really nothing notable to speak to in the U.S.
claims patterns.
And I say that not to avoid the answer to the question but we're just seeing decent stability there in claims.
And overall while there are pockets of up and down and pockets of persistency up and down persistency has also been on overall hanging in there pretty well.
So as has been the case at Aflac for many years it's been a relatively stable platform from that perspective benefit ratio and earnings drivers.
It's been gradually favorable in recent years but we see it as being a relatively stable outlook and nothing really notable in the patterns.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
One thing I would comment on Ryan just in this quarter to be mindful of from a math perspective as I mentioned the premium collection  reduction in the allowance for uncollectable premium.
Obviously realize that that pumps up the numerator if you will.
And so that helps benefit the  optically it benefits both your benefit ratio and your expense ratio because your premium is pumped up a little bit when you make that adjustment.
So be mindful of that this quarter.
There is actually a really really slight amount of normalization that you'd want to do on benefit ratios but it's actually not related to claims.
It's related to just premium being up a little bit.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
Thanks Fred.
Thank you speakers.
Next question is from Humphrey Lee from Dowling &amp; Partners.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Just want to follow up on the Japan sales outlook.
So the third sector sales in your outlook is 10% to 13% sales growth.
That based on my math that would imply the fourth quarter third sector sales would be somewhere between 19 billion to 21 billion.
And I know you talked about the tough year-over-year comparison but at the same time based on Paul's comment earlier medical sales expect to grow further in the fourth quarter.
So to me that suggests the cancer sales would be kind of more like a 10 billion to 12 billion range in the fourth quarter.
That would be a decline from the third quarter level.
Maybe a little bit comments on if my interpretation is correct and maybe if you could elaborate a little bit more detail for the 10% to 13% expectation on a more broader level? Global Operations</span></strong> As Dan said the large fourth quarter we had last year was representative of the very strong launch to our new cancer plan.
And so the previous three quarters this year have been going up against no cancer plan to previous year and so we'll be going up again for the first time that strong cancer sales in the fourth quarter of last year.
And so I think it is reflective of what we expect to be a progressive increase of the medical plan while at the same time having to go up against the very strong numbers from the launch of the cancer plan in 2014.
Okay.
But still if we were to assume the medical sales were to stay flat that would imply cancer sales would decline sequentially.
Any reason why that would be the case or there could be potentially upside to your sales guidance? I think...
Global Operations</span></strong> My only comment...
Go ahead Paul.
Global Operations</span></strong> Go ahead Dan.
I was just going to say we're just looking at overall that we've just finished 12 months with a 28% increase.
And I think to try to break it down into 13 weeks is just getting too much into the minutia of how we see it.
Overall let me just say that we're extremely pleased with what's going on and we will be excited if we finish in the 10% to 13% range which we totally expect to do.
And so how it breaks out by product? Remember the profitability are close to the same so we don't care how the agents write it.
So we don't look to say oh please don't sell cancer please sell medical.
Or please sell cancer don't sell medical one or the other.
It doesn't matter to us.
So we don't break it out that way in terms of looking at it.
Now we do look at life insurance where we've been on it watching it staying very close.
But on cancer and medical we really don't care how it comes in.
I guess my question is more kind of like with the Japan Post continuing to be performing that is a little bit surprising to see cancer sales may potentially trend down.
But I guess we will just have to wait for the fourth quarter to see what the results are.
Shifting gear to maybe on WAYS I understand you talked about kind of using it to entice the traditional channel to do more cross-sell and you can closely monitor from an interest rate perspective.
Is there kind of a rule of thumbs in terms of thinking where the 10-year JGB will move to  prompt you to dial back or even go or have stronger appetites for the WAYS sales? Humphrey it's not that simple.
Certainly as you watch JGBs grind down that doesn't make the job any easier in terms of generating yield but realize we've got a portfolio approach to backing these products which includes among other things the dollar program Eric's strategic asset allocation and so we take somewhat of a blended strategic asset allocation portfolio yield approach if you will to the expected investment horizon.
So for example recently we've seen treasuries and JGBs go down but spreads widen out to where new money could be put to work actually at even net more attractive levels as long as you're being careful in where you go with the money.
So it's not quite as simple as pegging to a JGB.
But certainly as you see JGB going down you've got to keep in mind two things: one obviously more of a challenge to reinvest that money but the other is you're having to gradually move towards lower assumptions for ongoing interest rates as it relates to pricing of the product and so you end up having a gradually less competitive product in the marketplace.
This is really an industry thing not an Aflac issue.
And so do you reach a point where it's just not as much a value proposition for the client as you'd hope and does the overall market start to get soft? So I think those are some of the dynamics but it's not a one-for-one tied to JGB.
It's not quite that simple although directionally certainly doesn't help.
One other thing I would say on third sector and some of the commentary around Japan Post.
Be mindful of the difference between growth rates and just having a much larger engine now as we start January 1 versus January 1 of last year.
The fact of the matter is we're just selling a more volume of product.
Even though the comparables may be challenging we have a net larger distribution engine that's driving simply more sales overall.
So that growth rate really benefits you as you move forward and look particularly at premium growth rates and your in-force growth rates and the overall economic value that you've driven.
So there will continue to be growth in my view in terms of value even though you may occasionally look at comparable sales periods that don't look as attractive.
Particularly when you know the dynamic with this is that it jumped out at a very strong level which is not unusual when you build up all the advertising and marketing investment to really launch it and that was the story in the fourth quarter of last year.
Okay.
Thank you for the color.
Thanks.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question is from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Question for Teresa.
This may be a little nebulous but you and Dan were talking about pipeline.
Could you give us a sense of how you measure that if there is some particular metric you're using? Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Certainly.
We basically look at the pipeline from the perspective of groups that have agreed to offer Aflac policies.
And that pipeline is weighed based on where they are and so this is mostly the large group.
It's mostly the large group segment and it's weighed based on where we are in the process.
So there is a piece of the process that looks at commitment to offer the product and then as you go further down the pipeline we basically have  have they submitted all of the enrollment materials have we set them up for enrollment and so there are varying places in the pipeline up to the enrollment.
And what we do is we look at the percent increase year-over-year to assess whether we have the constructive increase in that pipeline and today what we see is a double-digit increase in the pipeline from last year to this year apples-to-apples compare.
And group insurance it's usually group insurance and not individual insurance when we're talking about that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay sure.
Teresa what would stop I guess the process from commitment to offer to actually getting it done? Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Couple of things.
It may be that they decide to move the date of enrollments.
And so it may migrate down the pipeline so  not down the pipeline but they would change the date of the enrollment.
So it will move it from one quarter to the next.
Couple of other things that may change it are that they decide that they're not going to adjust their benefit packages for that year and they hold with the current benefit offering that they have.
Or they decide not to offer any voluntary benefits at all.
But we don't think that they will but we never know.
Inc.</span></strong> And then one more.
I think you answered it in the first question.
But assuming you get that kind of 8% number for the fourth quarter my assumption here is it's going to be driven by plus 100 cases.
Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah.
That's our assumption as well.
Although we will have some the natural sales that we have with our career agents we do believe that we will skew towards the greater than 100 cases in the fourth quarter.
It will probably be even greater than 1 000 cases.
Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Yeah.
Really.
Now that's always in the fourth quarter.
It's not during the year.
But the fundamental growth of less than 100 Teresa and her team are doing a great job in stabilizing that and continuing to have that grow especially through Everwell and the 50 or less.
So we are encouraged about that.
But it's this fourth quarter that's an anomaly because of the way the group presentations come in and we specifically work to where each case might have a different product.
So it's tailored to them and that's what causes the issues.
Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Right.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right thank you guys.
Thank you speakers.
Our next question is from John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Your line is now open.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Maybe Fred I just wanted to follow up on the comment and make sure I understand exactly what you're trying to tell us about the relative stability of the margin in both the U.S.
and Japan.
I haven't done the math perfectly for the adjustments the one-timers this quarter.
But it seems to me adjusting for that that Japan margin's 21% or slightly above 21% year-to-date and the U.S.
margin is 18% or slightly above 18% year-to-date.
In both cases that's the upper end of the outlook for 2015 through 2017.
So I guess in short are you telling us that we should expect both operations to maintain margins at or even maybe slightly above the upper end of the guidance range? Yeah.
First let me just say that my comments were not meant to preempt the December outlook call.
And so when we get to December 3 we'll give you a little more context and color around these earnings drivers and margins.
But if you were to adjust both the benefit ratios so adjust the Japan benefit ratio for the IBNR adjustment and adjust the U.S.
benefit ratio really just modestly for the premium kick-up related to the premium collection allowance we're seeing relative stability in those margins.
Certainly as we enter into the fourth quarter as we get into 2016 we don't see things at the moment that would disrupt that.
Realize that the mix of business can play a little bit with your benefit ratios.
And so we'd want to understand the mix of business in Japan particularly third sector versus first sector.
And we'd want to understand some of the mix of business dynamics in the U.S.
a little bit better.
But we're not seeing things that suggest to us significant movement in those benefit ratios going forward.
So we'll provide a little more color on this in the outlook call.
I would also note that expense ratios obviously in the recent year have been slightly more elevated as we reinvest back in our platforms.
I mentioned that in my comment.
We also see stability there too meaning we see a need to continue to reinvest in our platform to support the kind of growth you're seeing in Japan and to position ourselves for better growth in the U.S.
So that stability comment I made  yeah that stability comment I made goes both ways so.
Yeah you sort of took my follow-up question which was I think that's what you were hinting at.
And just specifically around expenses and investments into the business I can't remember exactly when it was but a year or two ago Aflac announced a pretty significant couple of year investment program in Japan that was I think at the time expected to run its course and then tail off.
It sounds to me like the message here is that that elevated level of investment will maintain itself.
Yes.
So I mean I would say in general this is the type of topic that we would also give a little bit more color on on the outlook call.
Right now our investment has been oriented around  in the U.S.
has been oriented around what you know and that is the investment we've made to reconfigure the sales platform and drive better growth.
We're going to have to look at the same sorts of things in the U.S.
that we've been successful in achieving in Japan and that is keeping pace with the modernization and digitizing of our platform in the U.S.
And those involve incremental investment.
We have been making some of those investments along the way.
So it doesn't necessarily suggest big deltas in things like expense ratios and so forth because we have been investing.
But the pace of that investment is going to have to react to the market opportunity.
And that's how we will approach it.
When we see there's opportunity to go after that requires a level of investment and argues for our capital then we'll want to do that for our shareholders.
And that's the type of color and we'll give you more context for that when we get to the outlook call.
But let me just say something about our sales and what we've done there.
I don't like sales at the level where they are but I will say this our organization is such that people are making less money if we don't achieve our objectives.
And that's what it's all about which means we make a little bit more but that isn't the idea.
We want the sales to be up and pay more.
But we have corrected that and it is having an impact that I think ultimately will drive sales higher.
But we're making sure that everyone shares in the pain.
If we don't achieve our objectives then they're going to feel it too.
And if we do well they can too.
And then if  and my real quick follow-up is just on the EPS guidance for the year.
Should we be holding you against that constant currency growth rate excluding the benefit of $0.06 or $0.07 this quarter that was unusual? Or should that be part of the growth? Yeah I think the range we have out there attempts to accommodate some of these unusual items.
But when we talk about carving positives out of our numbers we typically mean that to carve it out for the purposes of guidance and going forward.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you speakers.
Next question is from Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So I just wanted to come back to I think Fred your comment about the cross-sell initiative between WAYS and I think cancer in Japan.
And I was sort of interested in how you characterized it.
I believe you used the term household and where I'm going with this is is I would have thought that given the sizeable premium differential between WAYS and third-sector products that to neutralize sort of the impact of the margin differential you'd need to sell more than just one for one.
You'd probably need to sell three four third sector products to neutralize the lower margin from the first sector.
So I just want to  the question I guess is is am I thinking about that correctly? I mean I think  I'll ask Paul to expand on this but I think you're thinking about it correctly in the sense of when I say driving households I mean it from a couple of perspectives.
One the actual consolidated return on what we have provided to that household to your point but the other is what value you see in that household and that agent relationship going forward as you continue to develop new product to sell to your existing block of business and clients and new clients.
The other thing to consider is that you have agents making a living off of the building out of these households and the sale or potential sale of new product.
And so it supports the growth of your agency force and stability and even retention and development of your agency force.
And these are things that are difficult to put economics behind but we all know they drive embedded value.
So that's where I come from when I use the term household is the support for the agency the agency build-out the ability to cross-sell and what might be the future present value future sales dynamics related to having developed more households.
One of the things we tend to lead within Japan is that we're in one in four households.
And when you start the conversation with that that suggests there to be a lot of opportunity you can develop by simply being in that position.
And so it really benefits us.
Global Operations</span></strong> The other thing I would say is is when we first started selling WAYS we just picked up as much business as we could based  and a lot of people bought it just on the yield and that was it.
We've now moved away from that totally in telling our field force they want an overall arching program that they can offer to a consumer that will cover their life insurance needs their health insurance needs and any aspect that they might have.
So that's what we're trying to do is to cover them in their entirety.
But we are definitely continuing to de-emphasize these type products and we will continue to going forward until we see changes in the interest rate environment going forward.
Got it.
And then I guess my second question is and I don't want to front run your December event but as we think about 2016 Japan sales do you guys have plans for any new product launches next year that can help us stimulate sales in what I guess is going to be a pretty difficult comp for most of the quarters in 2015? I think we will have to wait until our December call to give you an update on that type stuff.
We want something to be able to talk about in December so don't take it all away from us.
Okay.
That's fine.
Thanks.
Thank you.
I think we have time for one remaining call.
All right.
Thank you speakers.
Our last question is from Mr.
Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open sir.
Good morning.
The question I had is when I look at and Paul you had mentioned that cancer sales through the non-Japan Post your traditional distribution system have continued to remain robust.
It sounds like better than you would have expected and in medical the ramp up of the new medical product has been more slow.
Do you expect that trend to continue or do you think we're going to see a bigger shift into medical? And I guess Fred can you remind us how the margins stack up in terms of the cancer product versus medical? Global Operations</span></strong> I'll start this is Paul.
To your question we have continued to see the overall cancer sales be stronger than we originally anticipated.
That is even pushing through into this quarter.
Therefore we have not put as strong an emphasis on selling the medical plan at this time and selling its new riders.
So do I expect the medical plan to be strong and to grow over time? I expect it to grow over time but to have a slower launch than we might have expected when we do a product and the previous product has already run its course.
We really want to see this cancer product sell for as long and as well as we can sell it especially through our traditional channels who are very invigorated by this cancer plan and the ability to speak to not only our existing customers but to new customers that they've never had access to before.
And Paul sorry just one quick follow up.
Is that because the medical space is increasingly more crowded or is that because you think more of your  is it more of just a focus on one product at a time through much of your distribution? Global Operations</span></strong> I do not think it's because of the competitiveness of medical otherwise we would be pushing that much harder right now.
It has much more to do with the excitement around the cancer plan and the continued success that our sales force is having.
As you've seen there is such a strong cross-sell between the cancer plan and the 15-pay ways and longer that's eating up a lot of the premium that we're selling to those individual customers.
But we will be going back to them with the medical plan in the future.
And then Fred on the margins? Tom let me handle that this is Kriss.
The margins on the cancer and medical are approximately the same.
And let me also add a comment on Suneet's question about neutralizing the margin on the cross-sell between WAYS and then cancer or medical.
It's not meant to be a complete neutralization because of the premium difference that Suneet mentioned but it does move us in the direction of additional value to shareholders in terms of adding additional business with significant value by having these cross-sells.
So I think that would about wrap it up on that question.
Okay.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thank you Kriss.
And before we go I want to share with all of you what's been mentioned before that on December 3 at 9 a.m.
we will have our scheduled earnings outlook call for 2016 to discuss our expectations for 2016.
So I hope you'll all join us.
We will be sending out a reminder as we always do but again that is December 3 at 9 a.m.
Eastern Standard Time.
And please feel free to call us in investor relations if you have any questions and thank you very much for joining us this morning.
Bye-bye.
Thank you speakers.
And that concludes today's conference.
Welcome to the Aflac Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question and answer session.
Please be advised today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Robin Wilkey Senior Vice President of Aflac Investor and Rating Agency Relations.
You may again.
Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter call.
Joining me this morning from the U.S.
is Dan Amos Chairman and CEO; Kriss Cloninger President of Aflac Incorporated; Paul Amos President of Aflac; Fred Crawford Executive Vice President and CFO of Aflac Incorporated; Teresa White President of Aflac U.S.; and Eric Kirsch Executive Vice President and Global Chief Investment Officer.
Also joining us from Tokyo is Hiroshi Yamauchi President and COO of Aflac Japan; Koji Ariyoshi Executive Vice President and Director of Sales and Marketing.
Before we start let me remind you that some of the statements in this teleconference are forward-looking within the meaning of federal securities laws although we believe these statements are reasonable and we can give no assurances that they will prove to be accurate because they're prospective in nature.
Actual results could differ materially from those we discuss today.
We encourage you to look at our quarterly release for some of the various risk factors that can materially impact our results.
Now I'll turn the program over to Dan who will begin this morning with some comments about the quarter and the year as well as our operations in Japan and the U.S.
Following Dan's comments Fred will follow up with brief comments about our financial performance for the quarter and the year.
Dan? Thank you Robin.
Good morning and thank you for joining us.
As we look back on 2015 Aflac's 60th year of operations let me start off by saying that the final quarter of 2015 concluded another great year for Aflac.
What's been true for these six decades and what separates us from every other competitor is our distinct product focus on voluntary and supplemental insurance in both the United States and in Japan.
That kind of direct approach has been a major factor in our success and I believe it will continue to propel our leading position in the future.
I'm especially pleased that our operating earnings per share growth before currency exceeded our expectations for the year rising 7.5%.
I think this is especially notable given historically low interest rates market volatility and economic uncertainty in the world.
I couldn't be more proud of the hard work and accomplishments of our management team employees and sales distribution in Japan and the United States.
It is an honor to work alongside our team who are dedicated to enhancing our long-term growth of the company and who represent all that Aflac stands for The Aflac Way.
Now I'll provide you some highlights related to our Japanese operation where I believe we set the standard in many ways for other insurance companies in Japan.
We're not only the pioneer and leading provider of cancer insurance but we're also the number one seller of medical insurance too.
This is particularly impressive given our increasing competitive medical market for insurance has become in Japan.
But our relevant products trusted brand and diverse distribution are a powerful combination that's very hard to compete with and it propelled Aflac to insure one out of four households.
I'm thrilled with Aflac Japan's tremendous annual growth of 13.4% increase in sales for third sector products which surpassed our original expectation considerably.
Not only were our 2015 results impressive across all channels but we pointed out in our release last night the third sector sales increase for 2015 is particularly phenomenal because it marked the second highest annual third sector growth in 10 years.
On the product side it's exciting that sales of our founding cancer insurance were up a tremendous 40.6% for the year.
As the pioneer of cancer insurance this remarkable result underscores the importance of Japanese consumers' place on selecting a brand they know and trust.
Turning to first sector products the actions taken by the Bank of Japan on Friday resulted in JGB yields decline as well as additional weakening of the yen to the dollar.
As discussed on our December outlook call we have taken steps to control the sale of first sector products as we enter 2016.
Managing through the low interest rate environment is nothing new to Aflac Japan.
The actions of the Bank of Japan simply reinforce our strategy and we will continue to review potential and further actions as the rate environment plays out.
Fred will touch on the financial considerations in his comments.
Looking at our distribution side our traditional agencies had been and remain vital contributors to our success and this was certainly true throughout 2015.
At the same time I'm pleased with Aflac Japan's significant strides in further developing our alliance with Japan Post throughout the year.
We completed the expansion of the number of post offices and their agents selling their products to more than 20 000 outlets during 2015.
With this expansion we've continued to ramp up our training of Japan Post employees to ensure they have the knowledge and tools to sell Aflac products successfully.
The Catch-22 of tremendous sales results is the difficult comparisons they create.
As we indicated we believe that sales of third sector products in 2016 will be down mid-single digits following another year of outstanding sales in 2015.
However looking further out we continue to view Aflac Japan's long-term compound annual growth rate as being in the range of 4% to 6%.
Now turning to Aflac U.S.
2015 was a year of building our business through our career and broker distribution channels.
We not only enhanced our career sales management infrastructure over the last year and a half but we also laid the foundation for greater opportunities within the broker market.
As you saw in the earnings release Aflac U.S.
hit an all-time record for the quarter with a premium amount of $497 million in new sales which equated to a 9.6% increase.
I'm especially happy with the fourth quarter given that it followed a 14.1% sales increase in the prior year.
Our quarterly results exceeded our expectations and drove our total sales of $1.5 billion which translates to a 3.7% increase for the year.
Our sales results for 2015 exemplify that we've been communicating; our sales are increasingly concentrated toward the end of the fourth quarter and we believe this will continue to be the case.
As you all well know success and opportunity breeds competition.
That combined with a clear need for voluntary products has resulted in a number of other companies entering the voluntary supplemental insurance market.
These have included insurance carriers who sell voluntary insurance as well as companies involved in various aspects of healthcare management.
But keep in mind Aflac's singular focus on supplemental voluntary products has greatly contributed to our dominant position in the work-side insurance market and I believe will continue to drive our competitive edge.
One Day Pay remains a differentiator for Aflac.
We will continue our promotion of One Day Pay to consumers which we believe will help increase brand loyalty and account penetration.
Here is an amazing statistic.
In 2015 we paid 1.2 million claims.
100% of the eligible One Day Pay claims submitted were paid within one day.
I think we'll pay over 2 million One Day Pay claims in 2016.
In the minds of consumers our already high integrity jumped by 22% the biggest move ever and we believe it's because of One Day Pay.
Paying claims in just one day translates to this statement from consumers: If you're paying it in just one day you must be a good company and with high integrity.
Also independent research continues to show that there is no doubt American consumers need cash quickly and paying claims fast and fairly sets us apart from the competition.
Even further differentiating Aflac I'm also proud that Aflac's contact center has been recognized by J.D.
Powers for providing outstanding customer service experience.
This recognition is based on successful completion of an audit and exceeding a customer satisfaction benchmark.
It is these kinds of initiatives and feedback that demonstrates our commitment to delivering on our promise to our policyholders.
While 2015 was a year of building we see 2016 as a year of stabilization and growth.
We continue to believe that Aflac U.S.
annualized premium sales growth in 2016 will be in the range of 3% to 5%.
Turning to capital deployment Fred will provide more detail shortly but let me just say that we view growing the cash dividend and purchasing our shares as the most attractive means of deploying capital particularly in the absence of any compelling alternative.
Our plan for 2016 is to repurchase $1.4 billion of our shares and we anticipate concentrating the majority in the first half of the year.
As we indicated last quarter 2015 was the 33rd consecutive year in which we've increased the cash dividend.
Our objective is to grow the dividend at a rate generally in line with the increases in operating earnings per diluted share before the impact of foreign currency translation.
I'll conclude by reiterating how proud I am of our teams in both the United States and in Japan as they've worked hard to generate our 2015 results.
You know I've been in the business for more than 40 years now and I'm truly excited today more than I've ever been about Aflac's future.
So now let me turn the program over to Fred for financial results and outlook.
Fred? Thank you Dan.
You've all had a chance to review the details in our earnings release.
As Dan noted in his comments our fourth quarter and full year results exceeded the high end of our earnings guidance driven by strong overall margins in both the U.S.
and Japan.
The only notable item to call out in the quarter was a favorable adjustment to certain retirement benefit liabilities as a result of refining our assumptions.
These adjustments impacted our parent company-only results and contributed approximately $13 million pre-tax or $0.02 per share to the quarter's earnings.
Our Japan segment margins came in strong driven by continued favorable benefit ratios.
We had a few adjustments to reserves in the quarter a result of our year-end actuarial work.
These adjustments were largely offsetting and on a net basis contributed modestly to the out-performance in the period.
Our expense ratio came in favorable to our expectations as we are balancing investment with continued focus on expense management.
We would expect both our benefit and expense ratios to normalize within our outlook call guidance range as we move into 2016.
In the U.S.
benefit ratios were considerably better than last year's quarter but fairly consistent with our strong performance throughout 2015 and at the favorable end of our outlook call guidance range.
As with Japan our quarterly and year-end actuarial work resulted in certain reserve adjustments that were largely offsetting.
Our expense ratio in the U.S.
was elevated in the quarter.
This is not unusual in the fourth quarter and roughly in line with last year's quarter and in part reflects the conscious decision to accelerate certain investments in our platform.
Turning to investments throughout 2015 we were successful in defending net investment income recognizing that as higher yielding securities mature we are investing new money into a low rate environment and need to proceed with caution given market volatility.
As we noted during our outlook call this dynamic represents a natural headwind to investment income in 2016.
We continue our efforts to build a position in diversified asset classes helping to support higher long-term returns.
Our capital and liquidity position remains strong.
As is typically the case we have only estimates on SMR and RBC at this time but expect both to remain strong and consistent with recent periods.
Between dividends and repurchase we returned just over $400 million to our shareholders in the quarter and achieved our guidance of $1.3 billion in repurchase for the year.
Before I turn the call back over to Robin for Q&amp;A I'd like to comment on recent market volatility the relevant strength of our financial position and our outlook.
The month of January has certainly been extraordinary with the return of credit and equity market volatility a continuation of the low rate environments in the U.S.
and Japan and a concern over energy and commodity prices and related exposures.
In the case of Aflac recent Bank of Japan actions draw renewed focus on Japan rates and the yen.
I think the following considerations are important and support the investment thesis that Aflac is well positioned to perform in the face of market volatility.
First our core franchise in Japan and the U.S.
supplemental health markets remain strong with natural demographic and economic catalysts driving core underwriting margins and favorable trends.
These core franchise growth and earnings drivers are largely unaffected by recent market volatility.
Second as with the rest of the industry we are carefully monitoring interest rates.
As Dan mentioned in his comments and consistent with Paul's strategic outlook in December the recent move in Japan rates simply reinforces our strategy to actively manage down the sale of lump sum first sector products focusing on appropriately priced level-premium product in support of our high-return third sector business and our core agency distribution network.
From a financial impact standpoint we've concluded all of our year-end actuary work including review and testing of core assumptions and maintain very strong margins across all material blocks of business and have very little liability and balance sheet risk associated with very low for very long interest rates.
In terms of investment strategy we are only in the beginning stages of building our growth asset portfolio thus we have modest exposure to naturally volatile asset classes.
In some cases we now have an opportunity to enter these asset classes at better valuations.
With historically low JGB yields the success of the dollar program and expansion into new asset classes we have naturally lightened our new money allocation to JGB's and that will continue into 2016.
In addition we pre-bought approximately 60% of our JGB budget prior to the BOJ easing announcement of late last week.
In terms of the dollar program we carefully watch our hedging costs but have been proactive in modestly extending the duration of our hedge positions to reduce exposure to short-term spikes.
While our long-term view is for hedging costs to rise we remain comfortably within our tolerances and continue to drive significant value over and above JGB rates.
Finally in terms of credit exposure like the rest of our peers we're carefully monitoring our exposure to energy sector along with metals and mining.
We have a $6.6 billion energy portfolio measured at book value that is well diversified and high-quality.
Only 7% of the portfolio is below investment grade and effectively all in the BB category.
As of the end of January our below-investment-grade energy holdings were in an unrealized loss position of only $140 million.
As we analyze security-by-security holdings we do not see acute default risk but do note that downgrade risk is present and pricing is under significant pressure on select names which could result in accounting-driven impairments as securities trade at deep discount for prolonged periods.
In summary core margins are expected to remain strong and largely resilient to market volatility.
Balance sheet exposures to low-for-long rates in the U.S.
and Japan are modest and our general account assets are defensively positioned with limited exposure to naturally volatile asset classes and we are well positioned in terms of our energy and energy-related exposures.
We therefore have made no adjustments to our earnings per share guidance of $6.17 to $6.41 assuming an average exchange rate of roughly 121 yen to the dollar.
And capital deployment guidance provided in our December outlook call remains the same.
Based on our capital conditions earnings and cash flow stability we are maintaining our repurchase target for 2016 at $1.4 billion.
Having repatriated additional excess capital in the fourth quarter we are front-end loading approximately $1 billion of repurchase in the first half of the year.
Our performance in the fourth quarter certainly bodes well for 2016 but it is obviously very early in the year and we will update accordingly.
Thank you and I'll now hand the call back to Robin to begin Q&amp;A.
Robin? Thank you Fred.
Before I turn it over to Q&amp;A I wanted to mention that you will be receiving an e-mail soon regarding our May 25 Financial Analyst Briefing to be held in New York.
And again if you have questions please give us a call on that.
Now we're ready to take your questions.
But first let me remind you that to be fair to everybody please limit yourself to one initial question and only one follow-up that relates to the initial question.
We're now ready to take the first question please.
Thank you.
Our first question is from Randy Binner from FBR.
You may ask your question.
Hi good morning.
Thanks.
I just wanted to pick up on Fred's closing comments there on the front loading of the buyback in 2016 that relied on a reinsurance transaction from last year and there were some questions about kind of the outlook for further reinsurance deals on the December call.
And it sounded like you were actively looking at different blocks and the market was active there.
So I'd like to get an update on what that outlook looks like because if we're going to continue to have high levels of buyback kind of looking forward in 2017 it seems there needs to be another material reinsurance transaction at some time this year.
So first of all Randy just a couple comments.
You're correct.
So we repatriated an additional 60 billion yen as you know in the fourth quarter roughly US$500 million.
That has built up a liquidity position at the holding company which we're now spending down in the form of front-end loading the repurchase of approximately $1 billion of our $1.4 billion target in 2016.
You're also correct to note that over the past few years we have benefited somewhat from elevated repatriation and cash flow related to these reinsurance transactions.
I would note however that we've had a balanced approach to the use of proceeds if you will or freed up capital from reinsurance roughly 40% or so dedicated to shoring up our SMR ratio and protecting the capital strength of our insurance franchise the remaining 60% then repatriated only after being comfortable with our capital ratios.
That is roughly the same type of approach that we would take going forward if we did in fact continue to entertain reinsurance transactions.
Right now we're out there with a long-range guidance of 2015 to 2017 of excess capital of $6.3 billion to $7.5 billion.
We remain consistent in that number.
The difference between $6.3 billion and $7.5 billion is tied up in excess capital some of which is in Japan and could be unlocked via reinsurance.
Our basic approach to that Randy is to be opportunistic and defensive meaning if there are compelling opportunities to unlock and go through the exercise of unlocking that excess capital for redeployment at higher returns we'll entertain that.
We also don't want to be defensive.
As we make our way through market volatility and watch things unfold over the next year or two we want to be equally careful to recognize that excess capital needs to be held and in some cases to defend the balance sheet.
So it's a balanced approach.
We don't have any reinsurance dialed into our estimates for 2016 as I mentioned on the outlook call but we'll continue to watch markets unfold and look for opportunities.
So just a couple follow- ups; one is can you just characterize how good the conversations are with reinsurers? I mean broadly speaking the global reinsurance market is overcapitalized so I'd be interested then to see your characterization of how that's going.
And then I guess the capital absorption in a downside scenario is that  are you thinking in like low  you're thinking further moves by the BOJ on Japanese interest rates? Is that the main shock you would be looking at or are you thinking more on the credit side? What would that main concern be there? Yeah.
So first part of your question we continue to maintain healthy reinsurance relationships.
And in fact we've even got commitments if you will for unfunded reinsurance that allows us the flexibility to pull down reinsurance if necessary for either defensive or offensive moves.
And that's largely a healthy approach because we're talking about health businesses and morbidity risk which is an attractive type of risk to take in the capital markets these days by reinsurers.
And because it's unaffected by capital market volatility it tends to be something we can count on with reliability.
So I'm not at all concerned about the nature of the discussions with reinsurers and our access to reinsurance.
The issue is more whether or not it makes sense from a capital strength standpoint or an opportunity standpoint to entertain any of those transactions.
And then in terms of the second part of your question as I mentioned in my comments we're very well positioned relative to low-for-long interest rates.
And that is not my concern relative to balance sheet.
It's an issue relative to watching our earnings trajectory going forward as I've mentioned but it's not a balance sheet issue as we have very little relative liabilities exposed to low-for-long rates.
The bigger issue is whether or not we're entering into the early stages of a credit cycle and being careful about that.
All eyes are on of course the energy market and commodities.
But more broadly we need to be careful about whether or not a mild or moderate credit cycle is in front of us.
And so it's a good time to be careful.
I think spreads have widened which is usually a signal; downgrades are outpacing upgrades modestly right now even beyond the energy sector.
So we have to be careful to watch that.
But as I said we're particularly well positioned.
And we naturally have a defensive general account because we haven't been as aggressive as many in the industry in terms of entering into more volatile asset classes.
We're just starting to begin that.
That's great.
Thanks a lot Fred.
Our next question is from Mr.
Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
You may ask your question.
Great thanks.
Good morning everyone.
So wanted to ask about the hedge portfolio.
Given we've got higher short-term U.S.
rates and lower Japan rates can you discuss the impact that's going to have on your hedge costs? You mentioned it will be going up but by how much? Also provide some more details as to what's been done to mitigate those incremental costs.
And also just discuss the logic behind putting the hedge cost below the line given that it's really an ongoing expense item.
In terms of the hedge program maybe I'll ask Eric to make some comments on kind of where we stand relative to the cost structure.
Sure.
Thanks Nigel.
Well as everybody knows we have been expecting hedge costs to go up and in fact that's the case.
About a year or so ago they were running about 60 basis points now they're running about 130 basis points to 140 basis points and that's including the actions by the BOJ the other day which increased the hedge costs around 10 basis points to 15 basis points.
Having said that we were planning for hedge costs in 2016 to be upwards of 180 basis points 190 basis points based on where our markets were back in the third quarter meaning look at what the Fed was going to do for potential rate hikes this new information from Japan.
And even at that level of 180 basis points to 200 basis points we still deem our portfolio to be very profitable versus buying a portfolio of JGBs which is what we measure it against.
And part of that is because new investments on the U.S.
dollar program are going in at higher yields and higher spreads.
We did take advantage through asset allocation of some of the dislocation in the high yield in the bank loan market which get us higher yields and we've continued to see JGB yields go down so that creates a wider spread.
But importantly relative to the program the fact is that monetary policy around the globe continues to be easy i.e.
the Bank of Japan.
But the Federal Reserve is unlikely to raise four times unless there's really strong economic growth in the U.S.
So when you look at things like forward curves the 180 basis points to 200 basis points that we thought it was going to go to is unlikely to be realized this year.
It most likely will continue to be lower.
Nevertheless we have programs and analysis that looks at this continually and the tools that we have are either find higher-yielding assets and to Fred's point earlier as we're starting to explore growth assets those have higher yields and returns than fixed income continue to modify the types of hedges we have.
Again Fred mentioned that we went through the duration of some of our hedges which has helped us to lock in some lower costs.
So those are the parameters we continued to look at to improve the performance of the program but it's holding up much better than we would have expected and monetary policy is in our favor right now.
And Fred maybe you want to talk about below the line.
Yeah.
I think the decisions around reporting hedge costs below the line were largely predicated on the notion of these costs being highly sensitive to short-term interest rate fluctuations as you pointed out Nigel in your comment.
So that sort of mark-to-market if you will fluctuations in costs we felt was better depicted below the line.
But most importantly we are transparent in it and have created a line item around it because we realized that in this particular case we're making a judgment call as to the definition of our operating earnings and you're now free to model it and track how those costs are moving.
So that's fundamentally our position as to why we treat it below the line.
Got it.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Mr.
Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
So I just had a question on Japan sales.
Just your reasoning for the expected decline in sales I realize comps were tough in the first half of the year but I would have assumed that you'd have an ongoing tailwind from greater production through the post office especially from recently added branches.
And also I think you're adding new products later this year.
So just discuss what you think will drive the weakness or the decline in sales in Japan and also maybe give a few more details on the new product initiatives in Japan later this year.
I'm going to let Paul take that.
Paul? Sure.
Global Operations</span></strong> Jimmy let me begin by saying that the 13.4% increase in sales last year creates your first hurdle.
You're correct we're up against very difficult comparisons and that's going to persist throughout the year.
We do believe that we'll have a strong year but without a product launch of one of our major core products that being a complete revitalization of either our cancer or medical plans we are in a year where we're going to have what we consider to be more moderate product launches and therefore we believe that the sales comparisons especially against such a large year will be difficult.
We have some product launches smaller in nature that we'll look forward in the first half of the year and then as I mentioned on the outlook call we'll be launching a completely new product line that we believe will enhance the second half of the year.
That said as is in the case in Japan when you do things that are brand-new to the company they tend to have a much slower adoption rate as well as a much slower rate of usage by different channels as we both negotiate with those channels as well as teach them the process for sales of that product.
And so we expect 2016 to be a year where we are enhancing our products and opening up new potential growth but we expect the majority of that growth to happen beyond 2016.
Unfortunately I can't go into the specifics about the products themselves but we feel very comfortable with our plan and our plan for 2017 and 2018 beyond that.
And Jimmy I want to add one thing.
This time last year where we thought we would be in 2016 is actually going to be there or even a little higher because if you combine the 13% last year and then the down this year the combined is still higher than where we thought it would be.
We just happen to being able to have enrolled and penetrated the market for Japan Post even faster than we thought we would and so I think that's part of the reason.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the previous question on hedging costs and Fred your answer makes sense.
But I was just wondering how do you  your hedging costs most recent quarter I think were around 8% of your earnings.
So how do you think about hedging costs in the context of your earnings power and your ROE as you look at results internally? Well the hedging costs obviously factor into what we would call the net yield on our dollar program as compared to investing in other alternatives JGBs and the like.
So those hedging costs factor into our thinking about the relative attractiveness of the dollar program.
It also can factor into how much of the dollar investment program we want to leave unhedged at times based on our view of the market.
So it factors into the investment strategy predominantly.
I would also add that those hedging costs also play into even our actuarial testing work and so we also embed for example hedge costs including the rising hedge costs into our long-term cash flow testing and gross premium valuation work.
And as I mentioned earlier we're quite comfortable in terms of margins.
So it does play in.
But I think the way we look at it Jimmy is more from a net yield perspective.
It is really sort of an NII-driven view of those costs as opposed to maybe a conventional operating cost.
I might just add you'll recollect at the last FAB I put up a chart where we actually showed you the to Fred's point the gross performance of the program and the net performance of the program taking out the hedge costs as well as any opportunity costs from settlements versus a portfolio of JGBs because remember our assets on behalf of Aflac Japan the liabilities are in yen.
So that's our natural benchmark and that program has been very very profitable versus JGBs since inception.
And we monitor that on a year-to-date basis inception to-date basis a monthly basis to continue to make those relative value decisions between dollars to the dollar program or investing in some other asset classes.
No I think that makes sense that you are  it's overall beneficial to invest more in dollars and hedges than just buying JGBs.
The only point I was trying to make is that it seems like if that is going to be the case going forward your operating ROE and operating earnings would overstate the economics of the business to some extent but that was the point I was trying to make.
But thank you for your answers.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Seth Weiss from Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Fred just curious if you could comment a little bit more on U.S.
expenses.
You mentioned investments and infrastructure.
You had mentioned this on the December outlook call.
Just curious if any of this is front loading of some of those investments you were planning on making in 2016 and if this at all changes the expense guidance you gave for the U.S.
for this coming year? Sure.
Seth just a couple comments.
I would not over-read accelerated investment into the expense ratio in the fourth quarter that there was some acceleration of expenses into the fourth quarter.
But as my comments and my prepared remarks we would expect our expense ratio in 2016 to fall back down within the guidance range that we provided for the year.
You had a couple things going on expense-wise.
You had some acceleration of expenses.
You had some miscellaneous items running through the expense line which will happen from quarter-to-quarter.
It didn't naturally fluctuate.
One other item I would note is that we did have a bit more DAC amortization in the quarter.
And in fact we believe this relates also to a modestly improved benefit ratio in the period and that while lapse rates were not unusually outside our expectation what lapsed in terms of the mix of business that lapsed tended to be policies that were carrying higher reserves and higher DAC balances.
As a result it tended to push up a better benefit ratio if you will or improve our benefit ratio I should say and pushed up our expense ratio a little bit.
Estimates in and around 100 basis points but I would certainly say approximately just to give you an idea.
So on the expense side we would expect to settle back down into our guidance.
I do think you should expect what has been a natural seasonal pattern here at the company that we tend to move through the year well within the ranges but it's not uncommon for us to see a little bit of an elevated expense ratio in the fourth quarter.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question is from Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody and thanks for taking my questions.
First I want to go back to the BOJ action and I think we talked about the investment impact.
But can we also talk about the potential sales impact? I would think that not only could it impact first sector sales in Japan but maybe it could also influence competitive pressures in third sector sales as maybe reserve rates come down and competition gravitates into the third sector products? So we'd just like to hear your view on that.
Global Operations</span></strong> Yeah be glad this is Paul be glad to talk about that.
When we think about first sector products as we've mentioned in the past we really divide it into two categories.
First is a lump sum product second area is more of the level-premium products.
With those lump sum products we believe that especially given the low interest rate environment it is not in our best interest to focus on those products.
And as a result we've put strong pressure on those sales.
We've put caps in place and we believe that the lump sum will be down as much as 50% or more in 2016.
As it relates to our level-premium products however we believe those still are a strong enhancement to our portfolio primarily because of the cross sale that we're getting with our traditional third sector products with cancer and medical and those products continue to be an overall positive for us.
We believe that the sales of those will remain relatively flat for the foreseeable future.
In terms of the BOJ impact to our third sector products as this point we don't expect it to have a significant impact.
The level of overall competition in third sector products especially in medical remains high but we don't expect there to be any short-term impact to expedite or make that much faster.
Hope that answers it.
Inc.</span></strong> It does thank you.
And then my follow-up question is on the Japanese incurred claims ratio which was I think the lowest I've seen in many years.
And was hoping to get a little more color on what drove that abnormally low number.
It's really predominantly just a continuation of favorable results.
As you know we have been traveling in and around that benefit ratio in Japan of just 60% to 61% for a while here and so the fourth quarter was modestly favorable.
I would say outside of just trends continue to be generally favorable.
I mentioned in my comments that we did have some actuarial adjustments in the period which are quite normal frankly every quarter but also included some year-end adjustments.
On a net basis that contributed a bit to the positive out-performance.
We didn't spike it out in dollar terms or basis point terms because some of these adjustments are quite normal each quarter.
But we did benefit a little bit from actuarial adjustments on a net basis.
As a result I would expect that you should see our benefit ratios in Japan fall back into line with the benefit ratio guidance for 2016 we provided.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Erik Bass from Citigroup.
You may ask your question.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Just one follow-up on Japan sales.
I think the fourth quarter was the highest quarter for cancer sales in 2015.
So can you just provide more details on what drove production this quarter? I guess there's a potential that sales could hold up better than implied in guidance in 2016.
Global Operations</span></strong> Well I believe that the execution of our cancer sales was really about the leader of our sales force Koji Ariyoshi who is here on the call continuing to guide our sales force in our different channels to continue to sell our product because of the launch of that product a little over year ago a year and a quarter ago has continued to maintain strong momentum.
I get the competition and overall there's a high demand both in our traditional channels as well as through Japan Post.
And so I believe that is a potential positive that we will see continuation; however the difficult comparisons that you come up against throughout this year do make us believe that there will be a downward trend in the overall sales but we do believe that the product remains highly demanded and is still the best product in the market today.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
And then if I could just ask one on the U.S.
can you just talk about where you're seeing the most traction from a sales perspective and where are the biggest opportunities where you remain underpenetrated? Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Well certainly the broker  this is Teresa.
Certainly the broker market it continues to be a market where we have not seen the penetration that we'd like to see but we are going in the right direction there.
The individual less than 100 case market as well continues to be a great opportunity for Aflac.
It's pretty much our bread and butter and we continue to work in that market.
But I think that the market growth is in the broker market and that's really how we are developing our strategies and plans.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Is there any way to quantify sort of penetration levels in the broker channel at this point? Aflac U.S.</span></strong> At this point what we're doing is we're looking at the current brokers that we have and we're driving penetration with those brokers.
We've seen a 27% increase in our top 100 brokers but right now I don't have specifics that I can give you as it relates to penetration.
Once we gain a little bit more knowledge as to how we want to report that we'll start reporting in our FAB in the booklets.
Let me just say one thing about sales and that is that if you go back in the past there was a real conflict between the brokers and our individual agents.
And we probably are the  of all the companies out there with that strong distribution network we've got they're very important and you can't just forget them.
And the thing I liked about sales in 2015 is we were able to keep our sales numbers for our core agents continue to grow.
We had them concentrate more on less-than-100 and we were up about 3% I think or 2.5%...
Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Actually it's 5.3% in the less-than-99.
A 5.3% increase in the less-than-99 sales and then overall our individual agents were up about 2.5%.
And then our brokers were up  the difference is broker isn't (45:15) bigger number as of yet.
But being able to manipulate or maneuver I should say is that maneuver in that space to where we can keep our agents happy and the brokers happy has been our challenge.
But we are accomplishing that.
And it's slow and tedious because they were competitors at one time.
Even though they weren't direct competitors our agents were always calling on these big accounts even though they weren't landing them and the brokers didn't like that.
Now they're working together as a team and I think with time there's enormous potential for that market to continue to grow.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Excuse me.
Good morning everybody.
I guess the question I have for you is can we think a little bit more about the composition of the $497 million of sales that were generated in the U.S.
in the fourth quarter? Can you put some color as to how much of that came from the broker channel versus the agent channel? And if you have some sense for what the margin would look like for the broker sold business versus the more traditional sold business? The profitability.
Yeah.
So on the profitability what I would say John is we have not really broken out at this point in time sort of segmented profitability metrics on group versus individual broker sold versus agent sold.
So I'm not in a position to bust that out for you.
What I would tell you is that we certainly priced the product with the notion of meeting our return expectations and obviously more than and comfortably covering our cost of capital.
So the returns are good in our view and priced appropriately.
I think we're right in line with competitive pricing in the marketplace.
I don't view ourselves as being priced to drive business growth.
I think we're doing it the old-fashioned way.
What I would say is because we're in such a growth mode on the group side we're obviously investing heavier in the group platform to absorb that growth and build for further growth.
So because it's been a relatively recent pick up in broker group sales we are heavily investing in that ways down on a reported if you will returns but over long term we would expect to achieve returns that are commensurate with what we've achieved individually.
Aflac U.S.</span></strong> And I'll just mention one thing one of the things that I'd like to make sure that we don't assume is that all brokers write group products.
60% of broker sales were individually written product is our core individually written product.
So just wanted to make that comment.
And let me make one other comment about that.
The reason it's skewed that way is not the major brokers.
There's two forms of brokers there's in Columbus a small regional broker that maybe I do buy my property-casualty insurance business from and then there is these massive enormous brokers.
And the regional brokers perform more like our sales agents to some degree.
And the big brokers of course are writing the big accounts and do it totally different.
So that's why this skew is more towards 60% 70%.
Aflac U.S.</span></strong> That's correct.
Okay.
And I guess I'm trying to understand the seasonality right? Because you've said for some time that fourth quarter will now be  or you expect it anyway to be the largest production quarter.
I guess that has to really mean that we're looking at a much bigger proportion that is broker-sold whether that's small regional types or the more national players.
So as you think about that $497 million how much of that would you say was broker sold? Is it 75%? Is it 50%? Is it something much bigger? Aflac U.S.</span></strong> So when we look at the skewing of business through the fourth quarter what we saw is that from a traditional side we did see a small list and I think that that was primarily based on the Affordable Care Act and the dates that enrollments needed to be in place for the Affordable Care Act because remember they deal with small case brokers as well.
But we did see a large skew of volume especially group as Dan said the larger brokerage houses basically will do group product.
So from a group perspective we saw 50% of the group business come in the fourth quarter but 40% came in December.
So we saw a huge shift of business which had not been a shift that we'd had before from an Aflac perspective.
Our Risk Officer and Chief Actuary just said that 40% of our business in the fourth quarter came from broker; is that correct? Okay.
That's your answer.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And if I could ask one quick follow-up on the hedged portfolio.
I think Eric had mentioned that the cost is running at about 130 basis points to 140 basis points and that's post (51:17).
Can you just remind us how big the U.S.
dollar portfolio is at this point that we should apply that cost against? Sure.
The total dollar program is about $21 billion but the hedges are on about $14 billion to $15 billion of that portfolio.
Robin can follow-up with the very specific numbers but that's approximately right because some of that portfolio we do leave unhedged.
It's a hedge against our equity in the branch and about $14 billion-plus is hedged.
Thank you very much.
One last thing you might want to know.
I just got this number from them.
It's 33 (51:54) for the year for broker and it's 40 (51:57) for the fourth quarter.
So you can figure it's 30 (51:59) for the first three quarters and 40 (52:03) for the fourth quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Kovac from Goldman Sachs.
You may ask your question.
Thanks.
I'm wondering in the U.S.
can you dive in a little bit deeper into some of the underlying drivers of the lower benefit ratio 2015 versus 2014? And then more specifically the even lower benefit ratio in the fourth quarter? Sure.
A couple of things.
One is really just favorable claims experience in general.
And so that has been the case for a while.
While I think that aspect of it is stabilizing it's been favorable and remains favorable.
The other dynamic that I mentioned is that in this particular quarter we also had lapse rates played in meaning not so much how much lapsed but the nature of the product that lapsed in the period.
The product tended to carry on average higher reserves and so there was a greater release of reserves if you will related to the lapsation.
This also as I mentioned played into accelerated DAC amortization and weighed on the expense ratio.
As we look at the year-over-year trend as I mentioned earlier we would approximate the impact of that dynamic to be in and around 100 basis points related to benefit ratio improvements.
Again that's based on the actuarial information we have and analyzing the nature of products that lapsed.
So I think that mix of business in lapsation that will go on from quarter-to-quarter.
This is not an unusual quarter.
The mix of business will be different from time to time.
We'll monitor it going forward but right now we hold to the benefit ratio guidance that we've provided on the U.S.
Makes sense.
And then looking at recruiting in the U.S.
it looked like not only was sales growth fairly strong in the fourth quarter but we also saw some signs of agent recruiting picking up.
Can you discuss some of the drivers there in terms of maybe the broader economy or maybe some more Aflac-specific comments? Global Operations</span></strong> I think the driver quite frankly is the compensation.
We basically are paying for performance with regard to U.S.
and part of the compensation drive is the recruiting fees.
We are seeing that recruiting in many of our markets have been a struggle in the past but has not been as much of a struggle right now and it's because quite frankly we focused on recruiting.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Steven Schwartz from Raymond James &amp; Associates.
You may ask your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Just one more follow-up on group sales in the U.S.
Teresa would you happen to know how much the group sales were up year-over-year in the fourth quarter? Maybe that would give us a sense of what's going on with the alphabet houses.
Aflac U.S.</span></strong> Just a second.
Let me make sure I get that number from my actuary (55:20).
32% increase in the fourth quarter for group sales.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
On the group sales.
And then you said the 20% so and just to be clear you mentioned the 27% number.
That's total broker sales up or the top 100 broker sales up? Aflac U.S.</span></strong> That is the top 100 broker sales.
Absolutely.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
So first question just as a follow-up on these hedging costs just to make sure I get what the punch line is here.
So if we run the 130 basis points 140 basis point hedge cost assumption through the 2016 P&amp;L assuming things remain roughly where they are today.
Fred the after-tax difference between operating and net income would be about $200 million.
Is that directionally about right meaning net income would be about $200 million lower than operating? Boy Tom I'd be reluctant to kind of opine to a number at this point in time.
I'd have to look at it to be candid.
So we'll take a look at it and maybe take that type of analysis offline.
It strikes me that you're trying to reconcile a model to get to the right number to think about and maybe we can work on that internally.
Okay.
But conceptually there's going to be that 140 basis points would be applied to the total portfolio I believe because you're going to have to roll the whole hedge program.
It's not just the new money that's being invested right? It's the total dollar portfolio where you're rolling the hedges is that conceptually the way to think about it? Well the reason I'm hesitating is you've got a portfolio of maturities related to those hedge instruments that range in tenure from short to longer as in 3 months to 18 months.
We've been stringing it out as I mentioned in my comments which shelters us against sharp swings if you will in hedge costs in any given year.
So I want to think about that (57:54).
Yeah.
I would add two comments Tom.
First just to give some specific numbers to the question earlier the dollar program in total is $21.6 billion.
Of that $14.2 billion is hedged.
But it's also relevant to your question that ties into part to Fred's answer.
Remember what I said earlier we now have a portfolio of hedge instruments of different types and we stratify the maturities of those.
So when I say hedge costs are 130 basis points to 140 basis points those are current annualized hedge costs.
Our realized hedge costs will most likely over time be lower than the annualized.
So to Fred's point to answer your question specifically requires a little bit of putting it down on paper.
But also not all of our hedges are forwards.
So those hedge costs pertain to forward contracts.
Predominantly we are in forwards but we do use collar instruments as well.
And collars could have a settlement but that will be more dependent on the level of the yen where it settles versus how we strike the collars and currently we have about $1.2 billion or so of collars and the rest are forwards.
So it's a little bit more complex to answer your question.
But I would say this for today your $200 million number is overstating it.
Okay.
So from a full year standpoint it would come in would you say meaningfully lower than the $200 million? It depends on the definition of meaningfully.
But I suspect it's a number that's lower than $175 million off the top today.
(59:33).
This is Kriss Cloninger.
I haven't said anything but I want to help put this in perspective.
We wouldn't have $14 billion of dollar investments if they weren't hedged.
And I don't think it's appropriate to say what the hedge costs are without looking at what the additional net investment income associated with the underlying dollar investments are relative to the yen investments.
So taking it  I think conceptually you're probably correct in applying 140 basis points to $14 billion and saying yeah that's the annualized hedge costs.
But keep in mind we wouldn't have $14 billion of unhedged dollar investments unless we had this hedge program.
So I think you've got to consider the net investment income differential between dollar investments and yen investments when you're talking about an economic evaluation of the deal.
I would just Tom we were able to do some quick math here.
Assuming 130 basis points to 140 basis points which I think on realized for this year will be lower than that.
On an after-tax basis we are probably looking at about $110 million.
And that's probably on the high side because I think our realized hedge costs this year will be lower than the annualized cost where it is now.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
We have reached 10 o'clock.
So I would like to thank everybody for joining us.
And if you have any further questions you can contact us in Investor Relations.
And again I would remind you about our Analyst Meeting coming up in May and we hope to see you all then.
Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
That concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.