Good morning.
My name is Melissa and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas First Quarter 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman and President and CEO.
Thank you Melissa.
I appreciate everybody joining for this conference call.
I have Scott Schroeder our CFO; Jeff Hutton VP of Marketing; Matt Reid VP and Regional Manager in the South; and Steve Lindeman our VP of Engineering and Technology with me today.
As you're aware the boilerplate language that's in our forward-looking statements included in the press release will apply to my comments today.
We have several items to cover and I'll also expand on the press releases that were issued last night.
I'll briefly cover the first quarter financial results and a discussion of our operations and further plans for 2011.
And at the end we'll leave ample time for Q&amp;A.
Cabot did report its financial results for the first quarter with clean earnings of just over $20 million and with discretionary cash flow of about $109 million.
This quarter continued the same trend of lower natural gas price realizations offset by robust production growth.
Throughout the remainder of 2011 I would expect to see similar commodity pricing and also a continued increase in our production profile.
In terms of production the company posted a 41% production growth rate between comparable first quarters.
37.7 Bcf was the highest quarterly production total the company has ever reported.
Along with this production achievement is the fact that last week we surpassed 100 Bcf cumulative production level for the Marcellus Shale in Pennsylvania and we did this in just under 3 years.
At our current production rate the next 100 Bcf of production will be achieved within less than a year.
Looking ahead to guidance.
Last night we posted new full year 2011 expectations increasing the overall growth rate to 34% to 42%.
Effectively the guidance midpoint is now 5% higher than before.
The low end of the guidance is based on the current production levels.
The high end of the guidance is tempered by our best guess of timing of the commissioning of the additional dehydration units which we are currently installing and the hookup of additional gathering lines to the Lathrop compressor station.
With the dehydration and additional gathering lines we think we can move an additional 50 million to 70 million cubic foot of gas to the market.
Any upside to our second quarter guidance would be dependent upon the timing of these 2 items.
And again that's upside to the second quarter guidance.
You will note as we move to the third and fourth quarters we are increasing our guidance as we anticipate the commissioning of the Williams Springville line from Lathrop to the Transco interstate line which is 30 miles south.
To summarize I understand there remains a lot of near-term noise and some uncertainty on the timing of infrastructure however each day we get a little bit more clarity on these items.
By the end of the second quarter Lathrop should be fully commissioned with the piping and dehydration installation.
At this point in time we will be waiting on the Springville pipeline.
Again the infrastructure capacity this is not production but the infrastructure capacity at Lathrop and Teel at the end of the second quarter will be 550 million cubic foot of capacity.
Following the Springville commissioning we will begin producing into this available capacity.
And our guidance reflects what we think might be a conservative look at the expectations as we fill up this capacity in the third and fourth quarters.
I think most importantly is the fact that our well performance and the deliverability that we've seen from our completions has not changed and we continue to add to the backlog of completions for future productivity.
Okay.
As part of our marketing effort our costs associated with the required firm transportation arrangements and our gathering fee have grown.
And as such we are now reflected on separate line items.
Previously these costs were an offset to realized prices.
The impact of this change to historical comparisons is 0 as realized prices are slightly higher to completely offset the new expense category.
For the first time we have posted guidance for the transportation line which captures all of these arrangements company-wide.
This addition together with some reductions in DD&amp;A financing operating costs and in addition to a slight increase in G&amp;A excluding the pension termination and stock compensation are the changes that were reflected and posted to our costs guidance.
Now let's move to operations for 2011.
Our plans remain unchanged from our original budget.
We're holding firm to a $600 million capital program that has $350 million directed towards the North region for our Marcellus and $250 million in the South region for the Eagle Ford oil initiative.
I would note that the first quarter disclosure for capital investments on the cash flow statement included over $30 million of 2010 carryover that was paid in 2011.
Now let's take a look at our hedging.
Cabot did take advantage of a short window of opportunity with natural gas price strength during the first part of the quarter to add hedges in 2012 and 2013.
This effort now has the company with 21 contracts for 2012 production excluding the 5 basis only hedges and 5 contracts we placed for 2013 production.
The hedge slide that we have on our website will illustrate all of this.
Moving to the North region and a little bit of detail some of this might be a little redundant but we do continue to establish new milestones in the Marcellus.
During the first quarter we had a new production record of 320 million gross per day predominantly from 57 horizontal wells.
Cabot continues to have excellent results as demonstrated by a 2-well pad site that has been in line for 3 months and is currently producing 36 million cubic foot a day in addition to our first 6-well pad site that is producing at a curtailed rate of 51 million cubic foot per day.
We would expect the 6-well pad site to be able to produce around 70 million to 80 million cubic foot uncurtailed.
On the completion side we have just finished frac-ing a 5-well pad site that is currently cleaning up.
Also we are in the process of completing our longest lateral to date which was a total usable lateral length of over 6 000 feet and we're well on our way to finalize 26 stages in this completion.
Cabot continues to run 5 rigs in the Marcellus and has a total of 560 stages being completed or cleaned up waiting on pipeline or waiting to be completed.
Our dedicated frac crew has been very effective averaging 3 completions stages per pumping day during March.
And we generally average about 20 pumping days per month.
At the Lathrop compressor station which Williams now owns there are a total of 7 compressors running giving us a current capacity of 225 million cubic foot per day at the Lathrop station.
Once the additional dehydration units which I've talked about are installed along with additional piping the capacity at the station will increase to 450 million per day.
And the Teel station will have another 100 million a day to get us to that 550 million I previously mentioned.
Again actually flowing capacity will be tied to the interstate take-away capacity and the completion of the Williams line to the south.
And that completion and commissioning of that Springville line down to Transco is anticipated for the third quarter.
In terms of other initiatives we have several initiatives going on.
In regard to the one that's most visible the Heath we have a completion crew scheduled for late May.
This well is designed for an 8-stage frac and we'll report the results when we get these results available.
We do have several other items or several other initiatives going on which we will also report on in a timely fashion in the appropriate time.
We have been asked about our future plans in the Heath and right now we're just currently focused on the completion of this particular well.
Now let's move south into the Eagle Ford area and our Buckhorn area.
The company has successfully completed 3 recent Eagle Ford wells.
Each well is a 100% Cabot well and they're located in Frio County.
The wells flowed at a 24-hour rate of 558 barrels per day equivalent 400 -- excuse me that's 958 barrels of oil per day equivalent 460 barrels of oil per day equivalent and 345 barrels a day equivalent.
The 345 barrels per day was a well that we got a little bit out of zone in.
But nevertheless it's early in the completion techniques in this area and we certainly like the results we've seen so far.
Three additional wells have been drilled and cased in the Buckhorn area and they will be completed in May and June.
Additionally there are 3 wells that have been drilled in our 18 000-plus acre AMI with EOG.
Cabot intends to drill or participate in 25 to 30 net Eagle Ford oil wells in 2011.
In regard to our activity in East Texas and our Haynesville joint ventures Cabot has finalized 2 agreements that would allow us to maintain a large percentage of our Haynesville acreage with no capital investment.
These agreements will provide Cabot with a carried interest in the initial well covering 24 units.
If commodity prices remain at similar levels and with the acreage held by the initial well in each unit no subsequent drilling would occur in these units for a period of time.
An additional agreement that Cabot has been working on is to sell a minority interest in some nonoperated units both producing and nonproducing with net production to Cabot of approximately 4 million cubic foot per day.
And that is executed and moving towards close.
Combined these agreements will allow Cabot to maintain approximately 22 000 net acres of its original 33 000 net acres in the play within the original lease terms at no incremental cost to us for 2011 and 2012.
This was our plan going into these joint ventures.
Two participation agreements as I mentioned are complete and operated and the sales transaction is expected to close in early May.
And as we said cash proceeds are expected to be in the range of $50 million to $55 million subject to final adjustment.
In closing Cabot's operational program remains fairly simple spending $350 million in the best area industry has discovered in the Marcellus that will deliver us significant returns with stellar reserve and production growth.
Additionally we'll allocate the remainder of our capital $250 million to the oil window at Eagle Ford which will increase our oil reserves and our production year-over-year.
So we have the best rate of return gas project in North America which includes comparing rate of returns to many oil projects plus a great rate of return project in the South region.
Additionally we had several other oil initiatives that we are moving on.
Melissa with that quick overview I'll stop here and answer any questions the group might have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
A couple of questions.
First could you just refresh us on your backlog of uncompleted wells and wells that are completed and not yet TD in the Marcellus? Yes.
We have of course the 5 rigs are currently running on 5 different pad sites.
And those particular wells or those rigs on some of those pad sites we have 500 -- combined we have 560 stages of frac stages that have pipe run and either we're flowing back the load water right now and cleaning those up or we're waiting on the pipeline or we're waiting for the frac crew to move from the current pad site it's on to another pad site.
Got it.
And I'm sorry was there a backlog as well and maybe I missed it of wells that have been drilled but haven't yet been completed? Yes.
That is included in the 560.
It's included.
Okay.
But we are currently of course drilling wells right now that we're may be at TD we haven't run pipe on yet that would add to that count.
Got it.
And then as you think about 2012 can you talk about your activity and availability in getting additional -- securing additionally firm transport and compression capacity? Are you seeing -- how active are you there? Are you seeing any changes in terms and are you seeing any changes in the tightness in the market? Yes.
And Jeff Hutton has been about 24/7 working on this project to make sure that we're going to be able to monetize our investment up there.
And he's done a super job in positioning us I think ahead of the curve for our take-away.
And I'll let him answer some of that.
Great.
Brian to begin with in 2012 we're poised to expand out of our core area to the North with the Laser Pipeline project.
We've got a compressor site up there already and construction is underway on that pipeline.
We have say about 150 000 a day of take-away going north to Millennium and that will be a 2012 kind of timing.
Also in 2012 we're expecting an expansion of the Williams Springville line going to Transco.
I think that's scheduled for approximately midyear of 2012 where we'll getting some additional capacity on South Transco.
The third project in 2012 will be to the east of our core area at Lennoxville.
We have a compressor site there planned.
We have right of way and we'll be drilling some additional wells there for 2012.
Great.
And lastly with a lot of -- with the Marcellus increasingly in the news can you just talk about any changes you're expecting or anything you're doing differently from a regulatory perspective? And do you anticipate any additional costs compliance costs from the environmental side? Well obviously we work closely with the DEP and we're current with all of the projects that are going on up there and initiatives and conversations.
Governor Corbett's commission is studying the Marcellus and looking at the entire space and trying to balance the environmental aspects along with the tremendous upside potential in the form of jobs and revenue generated by the Marcellus for the state.
The conversations which we're all aware of have been along the lines of a severance tax.
And Corbett's made clear that he is not in favor of a severance tax.
There's been discussion on an impact fee which would be a fee generated.
Whether it is based on a pad site or your well permitting or volumes is yet to be determined.
But that impact fee would be for the benefit of the local communities where the activity is taking place.
And whether or not that holds true and how the final form of that is anybody's guess at this stage.
More on the regulatory side they recently announced -- Mike Krancer the Secretary of the DEP recently announced the -- where we do not -- they do not want any produced water to be taken to the public disposal sites anymore.
And we fully support that.
We don't have any problems with that.
For a long long time we have been recycling 100% of our frac water and we are not taking any of our produced frac fluids to any of these sites so it's non-effect on Cabot.
I think with the decision made I think the majority of the industry will be recycling their produced water so I don't think that's going to have an effect.
As far as any incremental regulations certainly the EPA is going to continue to try and get involved in our business.
They feel like controlling hydraulic fractioning as an example should be an EPA item.
We are fully convinced and supportive that the states can control their regulations much much better than a federal oversight body could.
And with our full disclosure now of frac fluids and chemicals on the groundwater commission's website fracfocus.org I think the clarity and concern about what we put in frac fluids is also a benefit to the community and the politicians.
But aside from that and again looking at what industry is doing up there I think every one of us are trying to employ the best available technology.
Using premium thread connections is one area that we are employing.
And we think it is a benefit to the community and to the environment and we're doing all we can right now to mitigate any potential risk.
I think it is and should be stated and maybe we should be a little bit more vocal as an industry to state that there's no large-scale industry like the manufacturing industry or the extraction industry or many other types of industries out there that has a 0 potential for upsets.
I think we do our fair share and we spend millions and millions of dollars to mitigate any risk.
But I think it has to be understood by all that in order to have our energy source and in order to have cars to drive and be able to flip a switch and turn on the lights that there is a lot of work behind the scenes to be able to get there and there is inherent risk with every type of industry out there.
Your next question comes from Michael Hall of Wells Fargo.
Just if you could kind of help me understand how you worked down the backlog? Like you said you got 560-some-odd stages waiting on something.
As of last count I think it was 450 waiting on completion.
You'll generate another -- if you're drilling 51-some-odd wells you'll generate another 760-plus stages that need to be completed.
So with one frac crew doing 3 stages per day and like you said 20 pumping days per month I'm having trouble seeing how that crew is enough to work down that backlog in any meaningful way.
And just curious on your thoughts on adding another crew? And what time that might come under consideration and how you're thinking about that? That's a fair question Mike and I appreciate it.
We have -- in fact we had moved on a spot crew out there we moved a second crew in to pick up a location that had a couple of wells on it recently.
What we are doing is balancing our capital commitment at this stage along with our ability to monetize our gas right now.
We have volumes that are currently producing -- that are restricted.
As I mentioned in the 6-stage -- I mean 6-well pad we have that particular pad site restricted and curtailed right now.
Some of our other wells are also not being pulled as hard as they possibly could.
We do anticipate though with the infrastructure buildout which we're getting very very close to on the Lathrop station dehy [dehydration] and additional pipelines and Williams we know is working diligently to get that pipeline put into the South we do anticipate that we'll be able to add another frac crew.
It'll probably be towards the end of '11 or the beginning of '12 and look at picking up some of these -- picking up the pace if you will on some of the wells that are in the queue.
So it is in our plan to have more than one frac crew out there.
Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
It makes sense.
And then I guess one more.
You got a lot of pipelines being built out in the region.
Obviously you've got a lot of your own capacity coming on.
Are there any permitting issues or anything along those lines we ought to keep in mind as it relates to any of these buildouts? I'll let Jeff Hutton answer that Mike.
Mike I'll take the easy one first.
On the interstate pipeline build-outs Tennessee of course has an expansion that's occurring this summer.
They have a second expansion for next year kind of the same time period.
Obviously the interstate pipelines have imminent domain and they -- these are all PERC [ph] -approved projects.
And so we have no issues surrounding those projects in terms of being built.
Obviously Millennium has an open season.
They'll be expanding that pipeline kind of the same set of circumstances with them.
Transco has got a project on the book and again same story.
Then you get into kind of the midstream projects that do have permitting and regulatory issues that are not federally regulated.
So far I will knock on wood here Laser Pipeline got their New York permits and PA permits.
Williams has a number of their permits.
I think they're just waiting on one more to get started.
In terms of the gathering lines a number of those permits have been issued at least in the area that we're operating in.
So so far so good.
Okay.
I guess actually one more if I may.
You've got field-level compression and gathering capacity at the end of the year of about 550 million a day as I understand it and you've got plans to build that out further.
Can you give any color on the time line of those additional buildouts at the field level in 2012? And how you bring the field capacity up towards that 1.2 Bcf a day 2012 exit that you talk about for the pipeline take-away capacity? Sure.
The Laser again 150 000 a day with some additional capacity being negotiated.
That pipeline is going to operate at fairly low pressure in this part of the Marcellus.
So it's going to operate in the 600-pound range which means it will have free flow capabilities up there we think for quite a while.
So it shouldn't be compressor limited.
And that's again kind of a third quarter timing on that.
They'll have -- they should have everything ready to go and of course we'll be ready to go.
And then in the eastern part of our block at the Lennoxville area we've planned -- we already have our 12-inch tap there at Tennessee and a compressor site.
Again we were able to free flow quite a bit of gas in the Tennessee without compression prior to building Lathrop.
And so we intend to do the same thing although there is already compressors ordered and the site is there and right away is acquired.
So I would say that's kind of end of the year first quarter 2012 timing.
And then the of course Springville line is due to be in place third quarter this year and the first expansion is April May of 2012 with a second expansion planned for May of 2013.
Your next question comes from Gil Yang of Bank of America.
You mentioned the -- you had DD&amp;A reductions in the quarter.
Can you comment on was that from better well performance or lower capital costs expected going forward? It was a culmination of the true-up from the year-end reserves that all kind of flow-through in the first quarter.
When we put initial guidance out we anticipated the decline but we wanted to have more certainty.
I got asked this same question last night.
It is the better well performance that we reported back in February.
And it's also if you think about our Marcellus gas it's got a UOP [ph] rate of less than $1 from a DD&amp;A perspective and it is a growing component of the blended rate.
In other words that accounts for 2/3 to 3/4 of our production base.
So that's the dynamic that is driving the DD&amp;A rate down.
Okay.
So it's not a since-year-end change it's just that you trued it up to what you reported for the year end.
Right.
Okay.
The pads what's the expectation for the well results on the pads versus the individual expectations that you had today? Well there's really no difference in our expectations if we drilled a 6-well pad site versus a 1-well site.
The efficiencies come in 2 ways I guess.
One is the limited number of rig moves and the timing of just getting over a few feet to the next well.
And we do think we do get some incremental gain.
It is not -- it's hard to measure tangibly but we do think we get some incremental gain by doing our simultaneous frac-ing with the wells on the multi-well site.
Okay.
So any interference is offset by the synergies of the simul-frac? What do you mean interference in the form of do we see a frac -- when we're pumping in one do we see it in the other well? No.
I just more meant the drainage volumes are overlapping so you're not getting the full EUR for each well because they're overlapping a little bit.
Well right now we think our spacing is all accretive.
We don't think our spacing right now is an acceleration process.
We think the spacing is each well capturing unique gas.
Once we start down spacing we'll be able to answer that better on exactly what the appropriate spacing is going to be for the most efficient drainage.
So what is the current -- for the pads what is the current spacing? And what do you think it might go to before you start seeing that interference? Well right now our spacing on the pad sites is about 1 000 feet.
Do we think it can go down to 600 or 700 feet? We're going to take a look at that.
Okay.
And just to follow-up on Brian's question.
How much deliverability is behind -- is held back in those wells that are being restricted today? Well on that -- on just the one well I mean on the 6-well pad site we think there is an incremental 20 million to 30 million a day just on that 6-well pad site.
Some of the other wells that we are holding back and we have -- flow tubing pressure is greater than 1 000 pounds right now on some of our other wells.
I don't have exact volumes if we would draw all those wells down say to the suction pressure.
But it's some volumes I just don't have exact number.
Okay.
And when the pipelines are all set up and ready to go in terms of the third quarter how much will that -- will that deliverability still be there for that -- for example for that 6-well pad? Will it still be 20 million to 30 million or will that deliverability have disappeared by then because of well decline? Well every well has decline.
We haven't seen exactly what these particular wells will do because they haven't been producing that long.
But I would expect and anticipate if they stay on the trend line as some of our other wells that we will have excess capacity on that well site above the 51 million today that we're producing to flow into that new system at that particular time.
Your next question comes from Amir Arif of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just a follow-up to Gil's question.
Just in terms of going forward how are you guys thinking of the optimal development if there wasn't any restriction on capital -- on take-away constraints? Is it a 6-well pad site or are you thinking smaller developments just given the field-level constraints with building the pads? Well I think -- we've just now gotten to our 6-well pad site.
I think that's a very efficient pad site.
We might be looking in the future at an 8-well pad site.
But we have not made that determination yet.
But we certainly think the 6-well pad site's a very efficient site.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then if there wasn't the take-away capacity I mean I'm just thinking would you rather have it constrained and just flow at a stable rate longer? Or would you rather put in more capital to have them be flowing at a higher initial rate? Well that's a balancing act.
We would like to be able to monetize every dollar as soon as we put it in the ground.
If we see that we will be able to do that with our future growth then we're going to spend the money to be able to deliver the volumes into the pipeline and do that.
I think it's safe to say in looking at the -- if you take our marketing effort and what our expectations would be out into the future I think it's safe to say that we're going to have a fairly significant free cash flow program moving forward up there in the Marcellus.
And so we'll utilize prudently utilize that free cash that we'll generate.
And if we can monetize it up here and make the returns that we're seeing then we'll do that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of your exit rate from Marcellus.
I think you mentioned in your release 320 gross.
Do you know what that is on a net basis? About 280.
279.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> 280.
And then finally just on the Eagle Ford.
Of the 25 wells you're going to drill there are they all going to be in the Buckhorn area or are you also testing the Powderhorn? I'll let Matt Reid our VP and Regional Manager take that one.
The majority will be in the Buckhorn area.
There will be no wells in Powderhorn this year.
And the remainder of the wells will be in our joint venture with our partner and it will be called our Presidio area.
Your next question comes from Ray Deacon of Prichard Capital.
LLC</strong> Matt I was wondering if I could follow-up with a question.
What's your current thinking on EURs in the Eagle Ford? We've got a wide range it depends on lateral lengths.
But our EUR's roughly 375 000 to 600 000 barrels equivalent.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Got you.
Great.
And how much of that is liquids versus gas would you guess? Majority of it's liquids vast majority.
I'm not going to do the percentages for you.
But very small percentage of it's gas.
I would say 85% of it's liquids.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Got it.
Great.
And I just had a follow-up on the costs side.
I guess do you have any sort of number for completion cost trends in the Marcellus quarter-over-quarter? Some companies talk about maybe 10% or something and I was wondering how much of that you have locked in.
Well we have it locked in Ray.
We have our drilling equipment and our frac crew locked in on an annual contract.
So we would expect -- and those obviously are the largest components of a completed well cost but we would expect our costs to remain fairly flat.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just any update on any plans to further test the Purcell line? And are there -- I haven't seen any results out of the Heath yet but are you guys aware of any other operators that have had any success there? I haven't seen any new numbers out of the Heath but I would expect now with the spring coming that you're going to see some additional operations up there.
And as far as the Purcell is concerned we are still focused on the lower Marcellus and we'll continue to be focused on the lower Marcellus right now.
But I will say that our 1 Purcell well that we have there up there has done extremely well and it is a -- the EUR of that well is 8 to 10 B so we've been very pleased with that particular Purcell completion.
Your next question comes from Eric Hagen of Lazard Capital Markets.
Dan just thought I'd follow-up on the questions from Amir about possible development mode.
In terms of lateral lengths it seems like you've been experimenting with various lengths.
Have you -- what is the range and do you think you've decided on an optimal length at this point? Are you talking about in the Marcellus or in the...
Yes in the Marcellus.
Yes it's still a little bit early Eric.
There's a couple of items.
One we're averaging probably -- I want to say our 2011 program was kind of budgeted on something like a 3 600 3 700-foot lateral with 14 to 16 stages or something of that nature.
The well we are currently completing right now this 6 100-foot usable lateral and 26 stages was a pretty good step above what we have been doing.
And so we're going to take a look at that once we start producing that.
And we won't be able to produce that until we get some of these infrastructure items taken care of.
But I would say that another well -- definitely another component to the length of the laterals is going to be a -- conditioned upon the geographics and the lease configuration and surface area because there's areas that there's still some folks that have held out.
So there's not forced pooling or joint pooling in the Pennsylvania area.
And we have to restrict some of the distances or unit configurations because some folks just do not want to enjoy this domestic clean energy source natural gas.
And one quick follow-up on that was you have about I think 550 or 560 stages being completed and maybe trying to get at the deliverability from that another way.
Do you have any broad estimate or conservative estimate of what each stage will add in terms of production maybe over a 30- or 90-day period? Well as a rule of thumb I think you could probably back into it a little bit.
Just for example our 6-well pad site we're producing 51 million a day.
It has the upper 70s in the number of frac stages in that particular pad site.
We're thinking that deliverability from that pad site would be 70 million 80 million cubic foot a day and that would be inclusive of a 30-day average.
Your next question comes from Ronny Eisemann of JPMorgan.
Just a couple of quick questions.
Once the Springville line is in place how long do you think it will take Cabot to achieve approximately 550 million cubic feet of production? Well we have -- right now Ronny when you look at our guidance for third and fourth quarter the Springville line is scheduled sometime during the third quarter and it would probably be towards the latter part of the third quarter.
So we hedge a little bit on exactly what are exit volumes are going to be for 2011.
But we do have some backlog.
We are doing -- running dual tracks here with pipelines with completions of wells with configurations on the free flow areas that Jeff had talked about earlier at Lathrop and over at our Lennoxville facility.
So when you look at the year end I don't know we'll be between -- this is a swag of 410 million to 450 million cubic foot a day gross something like that.
So after the Springville line comes on you won't be infrastructure-constrained? At that point in time we'll be -- I think we'll be almost heads up less and except with the frac crews.
And that's what my comment was on adding additional frac crew when we see more clarity on that happening.
That happening being the Springville line commissioning.
But we do anticipate as rapidly as we physically can to frac additional wells and get them turned in line.
And then last question the closed loop system that you're utilizing what is the impact on costs? Are you talking about for drilling or are you talking about for the frac fluids? For the frac fluids yes.
Well frac fluid is just not a -- it's kind of an offset because the water we flow back and we recycle saves us x amount of water however much water it is from having to truck it in to our next frac stage.
So there's very little incremental costs attached to the recycling aspect of it.
But we do also have closed loop systems on our -- all five of our drilling rigs for the drill cuttings and whatnot.
That's a closed loop system and it's $60 000 incremental costs or something for those closed loop systems per rig.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Dan Morrison Global Hunter.
LLC</strong> Real quick have you all seen in any of your legacy acreage positions especially in the Mid-Continent any kind of emerging plays coming in your direction? Or anything worth talking about at this point? Well we have.
We have a great position up there.
And as you mentioned Dan a legacy position up there in the Mid-Continent area.
And there is the Atoka there's the Marmaton there's the -- there's a handful of new plays that people are looking at to utilize the horizontal technology to produce.
And yes we are looking at those areas and we do have a little bit of activity in regard to that.
Okay.
Any timing on when you think you might have something worth talking about? We'll probably at the end of the -- on our second quarter call we'll probably mention a couple of things that we're doing up there.
Your next question comes from Brian Lively Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Now that you guys have some more run time on especially some of the more recent wells can you update us on your 2pk's [ph] for EURs per well in the Marcellus? Well we haven't -- Brian we haven't seen anything that would be [indiscernible] with -- different than what our 2010 program yielded.
And that was a 10 Bs per well.
So as far as coming out with any update or change in that number we have not scrubbed this early in 2011.
We have not changed our position on that yet.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
Well thinking about that 2010 program do you have any idea maybe the average 6-month and 12-month cumulative production numbers on a per well basis? Well I don't -- we've got -- Steve Lindeman's kind of shuffling over there to look at it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> While he's looking on that just a clarification.
On the Marcellus production for the first quarter what was the average net production for the quarter? The average net per quarter -- what area Brian? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Just Marcellus only.
The average -- let's get that specific number and let' Steve Lindeman answer your other question Brian thanks.
Brian just the numbers off of our type curve.
From a 90-day perspective we would anticipate just short of a Bcf of recovery.
For the first year about a little over 2 Bcf and by the end of the third year 3 Bcf.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> That's really helpful.
In the Eagle Ford last question I have if you -- unless you guys have the actual net Marcellus numbers.
But on the Eagle Ford...
12 Bcf in the first quarter.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
On the Eagle Ford the variability of results.
What are you guys seeing in terms of why such a big variability? Is this driven by depth location? Or is it completion-oriented? Just what is your sense there? Well several different issues.
Depth obviously is a factor but we're still early on in our program and we're tweaking our recipe for our stimulation treatments.
I think we're getting very close.
The last well we drilled it IP-ed at the 958 number that Danny mentioned earlier.
The low number as Dan mentioned also I think in that particular well we were basically out of the interval we wanted to be in at the zone.
So I would kind of discount that well as an issue with the treatment.
But we are tweaking our treatment and I think we're pretty close to getting that where we want it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then what are you guys seeing in terms of total completed cost right now for the Eagle Ford? It depends.
Again it depends on where you are and it depends on lateral length.
I would say it's somewhere between the $7 million $8.5 million number.
At this time there are no further questions.
Okay.
I appreciate everybody joining us.
And as you can see we still have some near-term installations in our Marcellus.
We do anticipate the ramp-up to start towards the end of the third quarter with the Springville line.
But you can see with the tripling of our production since the first quarter of last year up there that our operation is going extremely well and we have a significant amount of wells in the queue to be able to fill this infrastructure capacity once it's commissioned.
We were happy to get a little bit of cash in from the Haynesville JVs.
And certainly we plan on probably utilizing that in some form or fashion this year.
But at this stage with basically a flat budget $600 million we're still anticipating growing this company production and reserves in a significant manner.
And we look forward  to our third quarter -- our second quarter release.
We think we will have some additional clarity and maybe some new items to talk about.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for participating in today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO of Cabot Oil &amp; Gas.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning and I appreciate everybody joining us for this call.
I have with me today -- from corporate I have Scott Schroeder.
You all know Jeff Hutton Steve Lindeman and I also have the 2 regional managers Matt Reid and Phil Stalnaker.
Before we start you're aware that the forward-looking statements included in the press release apply to my comments today.
At this time we have many things to cover and talk about.
And I'd also like to expand on the press releases that were issued last night.
I will briefly cover the second quarter financial results.
I'll also have discussions of the operations in both regions north and south.
And I'll cover so the rationale behind the sale of our Rocky Mountains assets and some of the use of those proceeds.
Overview should be fairly brief and I will allow ample time for questions at the end.
Cabot reported its financial results for the first quarter with clean earnings of $43 million and with discretionary cash flow of about $147 million.
This quarter continued the consistent trend of low natural gas price realizations offset by very robust production growth.
We expect natural gas prices to remain ranged down through the remainder of 2011 as we have seen in the first half.
Additionally we anticipate robust production for the remainder of the year which I will outline in a few moments.
In terms of second quarter production the company posted a 47.5% growth rate between comparable second quarters producing 45 Bcfe.
That's the highest quarterly production that Cabot has ever reported.
We continue to enjoy high growth rate from our gas portfolio but I'm particularly pleased to see the results of our liquids initiative with over 20% growth in oil volumes.
With more wells coming on stream I would expect this oil and liquids increase to continue.
For our guidance with our wells still showing excellent results last night we posted a new full year 2011 guidance increasing the overall growth rate to 46% up from 34% to 42%.
This increase is based on the level of gas we are currently producing.
The incremental volumes expected to free flow into the Laser Pipeline in Northeast PA and an additional interstate outlet expected to occur in the fourth quarter also in the Marcellus area.
As a footnote this increase in production guidance has taken in consideration the sale of our Rocky Mountains properties effective September 1 2011 which is about 27 million cubic feet per day.
Cost guidance has been updated with decreases in operating expense DD&amp;A and other taxes and an increase in G&amp;A and third quarter exploration expense.
The net impact is an overall lowering of unit cost from previous guidance levels.
Obviously the reduction of unit cost will yield incremental dollars to our bottom line and we do expect this trend to continue into 2012.
We have maintained a strong preference to deliver a disciplined approach for our 2011 capital spending program.
With our wealth of opportunities in the Northeast Pennsylvania area our continuous progress in the infrastructure buildout up there and our improved efficiencies and returns of our new liquids-rich ideas we have decided to monetize a portion of our Rocky Mountains asset base and deploy some of those dollars towards additional drilling in both our north and south regions that will enhance our production profile for 2012.
The assets result on the Rockies region were our legacy Green River Basin assets.
We did not sell any of our early initiatives such as the Heath or Chainman.
Essentially we've monetized an asset not valued by the market providing an opportunity for a multiple value expansion.
With the use of a portion of proceeds from this asset sale we'll be able to drill a few incremental Marcellus wells and replace the sold production as we expand our efforts into high return areas.
I'll cover more on the specifics around this capital plan a little bit later.
Cabot did add to its hedge book for 2011 and '12 during the quarter which we've posted in June.
This effort now has a company with 28 contracts for the remainder of 2011 production 28 contracts for 2012 production excluding the 5 basis only hedges that we have and 5 contracts for 2013 production.
No new hedges were added since this last posting in June.
Operations as we have previously discussed operationally for 2011 our plans remain to deliver a net cash flow neutral program in light of our recent asset sales.
We were more likely to deliver a debt reduction program after applying the proceeds from the sales.
With that as a backdrop we are evaluating adding $80 million to $100 million to our Marcellus program to drill 10 to 15 additional wells for the full year along with the south to invest about $50 million for the Eagleford and Marmaton oil projects including a small portion of the $50 million to be allocated towards another liquids-rich idea we are working on.
Now let's move specifically to the regions.
In the North region the wells in Susquehanna continue to exceed our expectations.
We achieved a new one-day fuel production high of 140 million cubic foot -- excuse me 440 million cubic foot per day.
Some of the wells contributing to this record production include 5 wells completed in the quarter that each exceeded 20 million cubic foot per day for our 24-hour production rate with ranges between 21 million to 28 million per day.
Also the combined 30-day rate for the 5 wells was 100 million cubic foot per day.
As we stated in the release we indicated the prolific nature of our area in the Marcellus by highlighting 2 wells that have now surpassed the 4 Bcf mark in cumulative production one of those occurring in only 12 months the other in 16 months time period respectively with these wells still producing at a combined rate of over 10 million cubic foot per day.
As we anticipate the completion of some takeaway infrastructure in the near term which I'll discuss that in a moment we continue to add to our production capacity and our inventory.
We are running 5 rigs in the Marcellus and a full-time frac crew.
We have a total of 259 stages being completed cleaning up or waiting to turn in line and an additional 323 stages waiting to be completed for a total of 582 stages.
As you're aware we remain constrained by the infrastructure capacity which currently allows us to flow somewhere in between 400 million and 440 million cubic foot on any given day through the Teel and Lathrop into the Tennessee 300 line.
The additional flow capacity is tied to interstate takeaway capacity which will remain static as I mentioned until the completion of the Williams Springville line which is tied to our Lathrop station running down to Transco to the south and/or the completion of the Laser Pipeline from the northern portion of our acreage which will run to the north and tie into the Millennium Pipeline.
Now everybody is anxious just as we are to receive the news and see the progress of this infrastructure buildout.
In particular the Springville pipeline and its status.
I'm pleased to announce that the pipeline construction has begun on segments of the pipeline and significant progress has been made regarding the installation of their compressor station located in Wyoming County.
However even under the best circumstance the project completion has slid slightly into the fourth quarter.
To be conservative we are modeling a December in-service date which is reflected in our guidance.
In addition to the Springville line the Laser Pipeline to the north going to attach to Millennium is also currently under construction with an early fourth quarter in-service date.
We have begun completion activities on the handful of wells targeted for completion and connection to the Laser line again anticipating some modest production adds for the fourth quarter in our guidance.
So as of today Cabot has pipeline capacity up to 440 million cubic foot per day and compression capacity up to 550 million cubic foot per day.
Now let me get into the future plan and describe what is going to come about and the timing that will come about with the buildout.
First I'm going to address just the pipeline and the timing of the pipeline.
And then I'm going to discuss compression and the timing of the compression installation.
At the end of these numbers I will circle back around and give you a summary of the key dates to look for and some of those volumes when you tie the pipeline and compression capacity together.
So first off with the new pipeline capacity expected in the fourth quarter and throughout 2012.
Here’s how some of the numbers breakdown: The Laser takeaway just with the pipe is scheduled for October at 50 million cubic foot per day tying into the Millennium line.
That we will be able to utilize at that point in time for free cash flow gas.
The Springville takeaway heading to the south is anticipated as I mentioned in December and that pipeline has the capacity at 300 million cubic foot per day to carry down to Transco.
Beyond that is attached to our Lathrop compressor station.
In March of 2012 Phase II of Laser will add an incremental 50 million cubic foot per day.
And in April of '12 Lenox takeaway pipeline will have an incremental 150 million cubic foot per day which the Lenox is tied to Tennessee.
Again I do plan on circling back around and tying these numbers together.
Now let me move to the compression capacity which is expected to be installed and commissioned in 2012.
The Laser compression in March of 2012 will be the 50 million cubic foot per day.
The Lenoxville compression which will be in April of 2012 will be at 150 million cubic foot per day and Williams central compression which is July of 2012 will be 300 million cubic foot per day.
So when you combine and tie together this in-service dates with both the pipeline takeaway and compression capacity the true takeaway ability from our wellhead into the market is going to be as follows and these are really the key dates that you ought to focus on.
The Laser pipeline in October of '12 we anticipate having the capacity -- excuse me in October of 2011 we anticipate having the capacity of 50 million cubic foot per day that we could free flow some gas.
In December of 2011 we anticipate that the Springville line will be available at about 100 million cubic foot per day.
In March of 2012 the Laser Pipeline will add an incremental 50 million cubic foot per day.
In April of 2012 the Lenoxville compression pipeline will have 150 million cubic foot per day.
And the central compressor that I discussed for Springville in July of 2012 will have an incremental 200 million cubic foot per day.
So to sum it up we will be adding 550 million cubic foot per day of total takeaway capacity which includes pipes and compression to the current capacity of 440 million cubic foot per day to give us a total takeaway of approximately 1 Bcf per day by mid-2012.
We also have other modifications and expansions planned and have not changed our original target of 1.2 Bcf per day of total takeaway infrastructure by year-end 2012.
If you have any questions and I botched any of that Jeff Hutton is sitting beside me and he will be able to clarify.
Also in the north region Cabot initial well in our Heath prospect located in Rosebud County Montana was completed in the second quarter.
Now this 8-stage completion is currently on task and recovering load water.
The process has taken longer than anticipated.
However we have recovered about 20% of our frac load to date.
The well initially flowed and as anticipated we did place the well on pump.
We're still optimistic on this completion.
And we're in the process currently of making a well bore cleanout run and we'll be able to give additional information on this in September.
Going to the South region in our Buckhorn area in the Eagle Ford the company has drilled a total of 17 wells.
Each well is 100%-working interest well in Frio County.
11 of these wells are on production with 3 wells completing 3 wells waiting on completion and 2 wells currently drilling.
As the press release highlighted 4 of the 11 producing wells were placed on production during the second quarter.
These 4 wells each produced at a combined average initial 24-hour rate of 721 barrels of oil equivalent.
Up until now we have had the flare of the residual gas as there was no pipeline connection.
We're pleased to announce that our new pipeline system now in place at Buckhorn.
In partnership with the TexStar Midstream Services the pipeline infrastructure commenced service in early July and approximately 3 million cubic foot per day are presently being produced into the pipeline.
Our old pipeline infrastructure is scheduled to be in service early in the fourth quarter.
Both projects will greatly enhance our overall operation in the Eagle Ford area.
In our AMI area with EOG there are 2 wells presently drilling in this 18 000-plus acre area.
Cabot intends to participate in total 25 to 30 net Eagle Ford wells in 2011.
Also covered under our south region and moving up to Oklahoma and Beaver County Cabot completed its first Marmaton well with a 24-hour rate 592 barrels of oil and 325 Mcf per day for an equivalent total of 646 barrels.
The well is drilled with a 4 000-foot lateral and completed with a 10-stage frac for around $4 million.
The well averaged 368 barrels plus 130 or so Mcf per day for the first 30 days.
And 320 barrels of oil and 189 Mcf per day of gas for the first 60 days.
It's a little early to discuss EURs but a range we could throw out would be an expectation of 175 to 225 MBoe.
We're very pleased with these results and Cabot's immediate plans are to participate in 5 to 6 additional non-operated wells to further evaluate the play along with looking for a rig to drill another operated well or 2.
Cabot has increased its acreage position in the area as a result of these early results to over 32 000 net acres.
In closing Cabot's operational program remains simple focus our gas efforts only in the Marcellus and allocate dollars in the oil windows of the Eagleford and now the Marmaton which will increase our oil reserves and oil production year-over-year.
With asset sales now closed or moving towards a close we're going to take advantage of additional dollars to enhance our 2011 year-end reserves and the opportunity to increase our early 2012 production capacity expectations.
Additionally we will be securing more liquids-rich acreage to improve our lines in several of these areas.
We have already highlighted our production expectation post the asset sale and our reserves are expected to approximate 3 TCF at year end even after taking in consideration the asset sale effort.
So as we increase reserves increase production and add more acreage to future drilling opportunities we will also most likely be reducing our debt year-over-year.
With that quick summary Stephanie I will be more than happy to open up the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Lively with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Dan I just have a few questions here.
If I got your numbers right it looks like you'll be adding around 550 million a day by July in 2012 from current production? And if that's right my question is will you be able to immediately fill those pipes with curtailed production? Or will there be some delay where you need to drill to fill those -- that incremental capacity? Okay you're right on the capacity increase that we'll see by July '12 is the 550 million and that's the pipe and the compression.
And as far as the timing of filling that additional capacity we have not -- obviously have not put out our guidance.
And we would hope to be able to put our guidance out in October of this year.
I think one of the reasons we have made the decision to use some of the proceeds from the asset sale is the clarity and visibility and comfort we have now in getting some of these infrastructure capacity in place.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And so if I think about the potential extra CapEx that you spent in the Marcellus then some of that will be spent -- basically be in front of the infrastructure buildout as you just said now that you have more confidence of the timing of it? Exactly.
And some of the clarity around that point is that now when we talk about the Springville line it's running from our Lathrop station in and around an area we've done majority of our drilling.
When I mentioned Laser it's to the north and we have now have some additional drilling.
In fact I have a frac crew up in that particular area as we speak.
But we haven't done a lot of drilling up in that area and then when I talk about the Lenoxville compressor that's to the east of our Lathrop station on the Tennessee 300 line we have done some drilling over there but we plan on doing incremental drilling in those 2 additional areas to add the capacity to meet the expectation.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> And you think by mid-next year you'll be able to basically work down that I think you said 580-ish stages that's waiting on hookup or completion? Some of the plan that we have to present at our October board meeting is the bottoms-up build budget that the regions are doing.
And that budget build will take in consideration these capacity and takeaway opportunities that we have aligned the drilling along with the frac crews to be able to position and coordinate and be as efficient as we possibly can to fill those particular volumes.
So I have not gotten the final run from the regions yet on how many frac crews that we'll have.
But certainly we anticipate being able to frac more wells and add half a crew 2 crews 2.5 crews whatever the number is.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just last question for me and I'll hop off but clarification on the Rockies divestiture what was the run rate unit OpEx for those properties? And then could you maybe provide maybe a clean Marcellus OpEx number with that? Yes and I'll let Scott take that one.
Right now Brian through the first 6 months of 2011 our direct operation expense in the Rockies was $0.81.
And that comparable number for our Pennsylvania operation in aggregate which is the Marcellus operation is a $0.05.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</strong> You said $0.05 did I hear you correctly? You did hear me correctly.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
So following up on a question on the point on operating costs there.
We did see a decent step down in operating costs this quarter versus last quarter and I wondered your comments on whether you think we will see further step down beyond the asset mix shift from selling the Rockies assets but just more -- we will see more step-downs in the cost as you bring more Marcellus production online or whether this is a good run rate especially considering that there will be some liquids coming on over time as well? Brian this is Scott.
We did -- from what we had out there previously for the third and fourth quarter we did move operating LOE down a little bit.
The dynamic in the second quarter were some credits that came through particularly in the West Virginia operation where we had paid for some before and then it was reversed in this period.
So there was a few little one-off things that caused the number to be lower in the second quarter than we were forecasting in the third and fourth quarter.
But we do expect that trend to continue to decline throughout the rest of this year and then throughout '12.
Driven like you said by those volumes that were -- the Marcellus production increasing volumes the Eagleford increasing volumes.
So just in aggregate we do expect the unit cost to continue to trend down.
Great.
And then separately can you talk to some of the shallower zones on your Marcellus acreage the upper Devonian zones work that you've done there and wells that you've drilled there and when and your thoughts? We're still evaluating the -- not only the zones shallower but also slightly deeper than our Marcellus.
And we really at his stage don't have a whole lot of color to add Brian but we -- you can be assured that we are evaluating it.
And lastly on the Heath wells when you originally -- in your original plans would you originally expected to have put it on pumps this quickly or just putting it on pump at this time in line with your expectations? No with the depth of the wells and our early expectations we anticipated having to put it on pump.
And what slowed it down considerably is just the timing of doing all of this but we did anticipate putting it on pump this early.
Your next question comes from the line of Gil Yang with Bank of America.
Could you just give some kind of predictions – maybe use another word -- could you give us some kind of anticipation of what you're expecting wells in the Laser area to come in at? And have you tested those wells or are you just sort of looking at logs and anticipating the productivity? We have not tested the wells as I mentioned we just have moved the frac crew in up there.
But we anticipate fairly robust rates.
Just from looking at logs? You're correct and the other area of information that we have.
Would it be fair to say that you're sort of expecting this 6.5 or 10 Bcf type curves which one would be -- should we be thinking about? Well I think it would be fair to ask if they'll be able to get some completions up there and then be able to report back based on the factual data of what our best expectation would be.
So in that context it sounds like you'll have -- your anticipation that when Laser actually comes online you should have enough wells that you can fill 50 million very easily even if the wells let's say underperform a little bit that you'd have enough spare deliverability that you could hit 50 million.
Yes and to address it through expectations we have in our guidance included some of those volumes to be free flowing into the Laser connection.
And as we did previously on the expectations of Springville line and other improvements to the infrastructure we pushed our expectation of startup date out a little bit just simply to be able to plan for weather and delays in the construction process.
And the guided volumes that we have free flowing and expect to free flow into Laser is no exception to maybe our conservative approach to lay out guidance.
So just to clarify.
So the 4 four months of Laser production are 4 months at 50 million free flow? The capacity of the Laser line is 50 million a day in free flow.
That is starting in October.
So that would be really 3 months and the guidance has incorporated the expectation that we anticipate flowing up there.
Okay.
And for the accelerated -- for the additional wells you plan to drill in the different areas is that additive to volumes in 2011? Or is it more building up inventory that will come online in 2012? That would be tacked on the end of our drilling program for 2011 and I would venture to say that all of those wells would not -- not any of those wells will be seeing as far as production in '11.
It will be a 2012 event.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Wells Fargo.
Just curious I guess a few things.
Most of my stuff has been answered.
A little more color maybe on the 2012 outlook as it relates to capital and kind of the implications of reducing the backlog of uncompleted wells and kind of how that would in theory flow through the capital.
I'm just making sure I'm thinking about it right.
I mean am I getting that right if I'm thinking that the incremental volumes that are likely to come on in '12 however we choose to model them likely come on at much higher kind of capital efficiency rates than would be typical given that you're really just going to be completing those wells as opposed to needing to drill them as well as complete with them? I mean I guess how should we be thinking about that at this point? Michael you -- and again the way you model it and the way you probably have modeled it -- each year we do have wells that we carry over.
For example from 2010 to 2011 we had drilling wells that we had in '10 that we carried over as completions in '11 and we have some carryout wells out of '11 into '12.
But I think with your comment on the capital efficiency and working down the backlog in '12 Phil and his guys have been working on this 2012 program.
And as we continue to improve our efficiencies do those things that now we can start looking forward to improving on I do anticipate our capital efficiency to improve.
And I kind of think it is.
So I know that might not answer your question directly but I do anticipate working the backlog of wells off.
But I also anticipate having a larger capital program up there that would allow us to stay if you will ahead of the game.
That makes sense.
And I guess maybe as a follow up then how would I think about or how do you think about kind of a normalized run rate if you will of wells in backlog like you said obviously you always carry some over year-to-year.
Of that whatever 300 some odd stages in waiting on completion categories what will be -- of that 300 what's kind of what do you think about as a normalized level? I mean is it half of that you would normally always carry around with you or is there any color on that? Yes let me throw out some numbers.
A frac crew will -- and we're using rough numbers a frac crew is going to deliver completed 60 to 70 stages a month.
That's kind of a -- and that's probably full year probably better in the summer maybe not quite as good in the winter.
So that would give you a little bit of a benchmark to use in trying to answer that number.
But I think looking at a backlog or an inventory something along half of what we're carrying right now might be a reasonable expectation.
Okay that's helpful.
I appreciate it.
And then I guess capital cost per well.
Just what's the latest and greatest on how much these wells are costing and have you seen any meaningful inflation? And I guess any sort of update on the cost front? We've been -- of course we have on -- on the inflation side we have locked in our services on an annualized basis.
We are talking and looking at extended contracts into our 2012 program.
But knowing our average cost per well very dependent upon the total lateral lane and the number of stages and we have not seen a great deal of difference in those costs.
I would anticipate at some point in time to gain efficiencies with keeping a rig maybe on location a little bit longer to drill more wells on location adds efficiencies versus drilling maybe 1 or 2 wells per pad.
I think we're gaining efficiencies on our construction of our pad sites.
We're recycling 100% of our flowback water and also our drill water now.
And we're reusing that so that is creating some efficiencies for us.
And we're looking out the logistics of moving water up there which is a fairly big cost to improve on those types of logistics.
So we're doing things to keep the cost as they are or in fact reduce the cost up there.
So our cost per well per stage if you will has not changed dramatically.
Okay.
And then I guess just 2 quick ones.
In terms of the deployment of the monetizations what -- I guess of that 340 -- I mean is it maybe half of that gets deployed this year? Any additional color there? Yes I would say that would be a decent number to look at.
Okay.
And then just lastly just curious any comments on what you paid for the acreage in the Marmaton in a kind of per acre basis? What's the run rate there? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Biju Perincheril with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Couple of questions.
So the income of wells in the Marcellus of I think 15 to 20 you mentioned that's all from efficiency gains on the drilling front? You're not -- you're still keeping the 5-rig program this year right? Right.
Yes we have -- and the 10 to 15 is the kind of the number Biju that we're looking at.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I just want to make sure I got this correct the 5 wells that you completed in the quarter did you say that the combined 30-day rate was 140 million cubic feet a day? No the 5 wells came online each of them over 20 million a day for an IP 24-hour rate.
And if you combine what those wells we're producing on the 30-day rate that rate for those 5 wells total combined is 100 million cubic foot per day.
Inc.</strong> 100.
Okay.
And what were the lateral lengths in frac stages on those wells? They were -- they varied but they were anywhere from 16 to -- or 15 to 21.
And yes so you can do the numbers on the frac stages.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then the Springville pipeline you mentioned the construction has begun on some stages.
Does that need any additional permits at this point or has William secured all the necessary permits? I'll let Jeff comment.
My understanding is there's still a couple of outstanding programs to be obtained.
I know that the status of those are kind of any day now.
But the good news is that construction crews are out and everything is mobilized and just waiting on the last signatures on a couple of permits.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then once you have those permits secured the last bit do you know how many days will it take to complete? What are the remaining phases of construction? Well like we mentioned earlier we're anticipating production in our guidance around December 1.
And Williams can probably give you a better update on exactly the in-service date but that's what we're remodeling.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then one last question around these longer lateral wells that you're drilling.
I know not every well are going to be -- that you'll be drilling will be at 15 to 20 stages but can you just sort of talk about how you're thinking about EUR expectations for these more recent wells that's flowing on the laterals? Yes.
Our 2010 program was basically an average of 14 stages per well.
And then as we drive our 10 Bcf EUR expectation we have more data on our 2010 wells in the production.
And honestly the decline curves.
And we've been very pleased with what we've seen on the curve fit compared to our 10 Bcf EUR.
Our 2011 program we anticipate the average number of stages to be somewhere between 15 and 16 stages as an average on our '11 program.
So I can't and do not have the information to make and speculate on the EUR prediction for our 2011 program.
The only thing I will say is that on a per stage basis and seeing the consistency that we've seen from the wells that we've completed we have been very pleased.
And we don't have a large delta between in the detailed way we assess production on a stage basis.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Eric Hagen with Lazard Capital Markets.
Dan question on -- following up on the completions per stage what do you think is a good sustained rate say over 30 60 days to model production per stage? Well I don't know I'm not going to break it down that low but the 5 wells that we brought on all good wells -- and we're mid year we already wells that brought on in '10.
I mean in '11 we're kind of our wells that we completed that were 2010 wells that we completed in 2011 those were early wells we brought on.
And now we're getting to drilling and completing some of our 2011 wells and these 5 wells that we brought on were some of the early wells in our program.
And we're seeing again consistent results on a per stage basis and we're seeing anywhere from 800 000 to 1 million plus per stage.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then in terms of the rate of drilling do you have a similar metric in terms of you said 60 70 stages per month.
In terms of how many wells you drill for the month per rig just a broad estimate on that Yes I'm going to let Phil Stalnaker respond to that.
On a per rig basis for a 12-month period we're looking at 14 to 15 wells per rig.
Per year? Per year.
So a little over a well per month.
Okay great.
And the final one I had was any general guidance to your corporate base decline rate? Yes.
We have not and I'm going to turn it over to Steve Lindeman to fill that Eric.
But to kind of cover for him a little bit I'm sure he hasn't  incorporated now our total decline from the sale of our Rockies.
But I'll let him take a shot at it.
Eric we only again evaluate our reserves at year end.
So like Dan said we haven't incorporated the Rockies sale into picture.
But I would say we're kind of in maybe 10% to 12% decline rate would be my guess.
And that's on a corporate level for all your production? On a corporate level right.
Okay then it might be a little higher now with the Rockies is that fair to say because that was pretty mature production or...
That's correct.
The Rockies had a fairly flat decline.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions on Marmaton if I might.
When did you begin the science in-house on this and when was the leasing taking place? Robert we began looking at this a little over 2 years ago.
Inc.</strong> Okay very good.
Another question if I might.
The percentage of non-op in these upcoming wells in the Marmaton that you have? I'm going to let Matt Reid our South Region VP to answer that.
Robert it's got a wide variation.
It's anywhere from about 3% to 30%.
Inc.</strong> And may I ask who the operator might be in most instances? I'll say it's a very prominent player in that particular area in Beaver County.
Let's put it that way.
Inc.</strong> And if I might again continuing on of the 6 to 9 non-op wells are any of them going to have longer laterals than your Wildcat? Well we don't know yet.
We haven't seen any of these of for those wells as of yet.
The one well that is now being tested or drilling will have one similar to our well.
Inc.</strong> And if I just might press on a little bit I believe you've mentioned upfront Dan that you had another oil or liquids-rich idea in your corporation and when would testing of that when will we see a Wildcat on that new idea? Well I appreciate you asking that Robert.
But on those type of projects that as you can appreciate the competitive aspects of any liquids idea.
I know timing doesn't disclose any or a lot of information but we would prefer to talk about the information after we have secured data versus speculating on timing.
Inc.</strong> I perfectly expect that.
If I might ask one more and that is -- I've lost my thread if I come back I'll get back in the queue.
I've lost what my question was.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver with Capital One.
Inc.</strong> Just a question on the well clause.
You talked about how they haven't changed but I just wanted to make sure I had it right in my model.
What would you add up to -- what would a 15 to 16 stage well cost drilling complete right now $6.5 million to $7 million.
[Operator Instructions] At this time there are no additional questions in the queue.
All right.
Thank you Stephanie.
And thank all of you who have joined us and stuck with the call up to this point.
The takeaways just to kind of reiterate I think we've done a decent job on keeping our capital discipline.
And like our guidance increasing even in light of asset sales and the redeployment of the capital into our key areas in the Marcellus Eagleford and Marmaton is going to set us up well for year-end reserves and also early in increased expectations in '12 for production.
I'm very pleased that we're going to have a Bcf capacity takeaway within a year from today and in 2012 with Matt and Phil staying here.
And I'm sure the numbers are going to give us so we can talk to the board that will show reserve growth production growth.
And I would imagine and that it's going to be certainly within a cash flow neutral program and most likely a cash flow positive program in 2012.
And certainly I couldn't ask any more from the team.
I appreciate your interest.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Holly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Quarter 3 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today's call over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Holly.
Appreciate everybody joining us this morning.
I have in the room with me today Scott Schroeder; Jeff Hutton VP Marketing; Steve Lindeman the VP of Engineering; Matt Reid our VP of South Region; and Phil Stalnaker our VP of our North Region.
Let me just make an opening comment that the forward-looking statements included in the press release do apply to my comments today.
At this time we have many things to cover and I'll also try to expand on the press releases that were issued last night.
I'll briefly cover the third quarter financial results a discussion of operations in Pennsylvania Texas and Oklahoma.
Additionally I will discuss our outlook for the next 15 months for Cabot.
But before I get into the details on these topics let me start with a summary of our impressive results so far year-to-date in 2011 and a quick overview of expectations for '12.
In '11 Cabot will grow production in the 40% to 46% range net of asset sales.
We will grow reserves 10-plus percent.
We will reduce or at a minimum maintain total debt at a level below $1 billion.
And this is all generated by a program that encompasses a total rig count of 7 which I think indicates the prolific nature of our portfolio.
If we look ahead 2012 our expectations will be -- and this is off of a larger base grow production between 45% and 55% or grow reserves again 10-plus percent maintain or reduce debt without asset sales and again all generated from a total rig count of 7.
I think from the guidance I have seen from industry Cabot's numbers are unmatched.
In fact I've been in the business for over 30 years and it's rare that I've seen numbers that can demonstrate this amount of growth in a cash flow neutral to cash flow positive program.
Cabot's financial report for third quarter had clean earnings of $35 million and with discretionary cash flow of $165 million.
This quarter continued the consistent trend of low natural gas price realizations offset by very robust production growth.
We expect natural gas prices to remain ranged bound through the remainder of 2011 or until seasonal factors kick in.
Additionally we do anticipate further production advances for the remainder of the year as infrastructure capabilities do become available though we have not included these in our fourth quarter guidance.
In terms of third quarter production the company posted a 39% growth rate between comparable third quarters reporting 50 Bcf.
We continue to enjoy high growth rates from our gas portfolio but I'm particularly pleased to see the results of our liquids initiative with over 100% growth in oil and related liquid volumes between comparable third quarters.
Clearly this indicate -- this increase comes from our Eagle Ford effort with more wells coming online.
We do expect to see an ongoing increase in our liquids production.
The guidance last night we posted new guidance with regard to '12 production.
We initiated with a range of growth between 45% and 55%.
We provided detail for the first quarter only due to the fact that there are several infrastructure projects in the works with estimated 2012 start dates.
As we have seen this year multifaceted projects at timeframes that can slide.
Our expectation is we will have a much clearer more exact timing on this front by the February call when we could give more specific details.
With that said let me emphasize again at a minimum we anticipate 2012 production growth to be in the 45% to 55% range.
In terms of 2011 fourth quarter we maintained our existing guidance with 9 months of actual production having already exceeded last year's record total level.
Our expectation for 2011 will be faraway better than any time in our history.
This rate also takes into account the sold production and several infrastructure delays.
In terms of infrastructure Laser just came online this week up in PA and Springville is still expected in mid-December again no incremental volumes in 2011 and from Springville are contemplated for us to stay within our guidance.
Cost guidance has been updated with no change fourth quarter 2011.
However our first quarter of '12 reflects reduction to operating expense DD&amp;A and financing at increased to transportation G&amp;A and maintain owed taxes and exploration expense.
The overall impact in '12 is a lowering of cost from previous guidance levels.
Obviously the reduction of our unit cost will yield incremental dollars to the bottom line.
We do expect this reduction trend to continue throughout '12.
We have maintained a strong preference to deliver a disciplined approach to capital spending.
The asset sales 2011 have allowed the expansion of our current year program to about $825 million to $875 million.
You'll recall that on the second quarter call the number would move up from the $600 million mark to around $750 million.
The slight increase from there is a result of our drilling efficiencies that have allowed more wells to be drilled in Pennsylvania Texas and Oklahoma more completions although still constrained by infrastructure and more leasing activity on key areas and a couple of new ideas.
For '12 we expect our program to be in the range of $850 million to $900 million.
The planned program range is fully funded at the low end with a $4 gas price and the program generates a cash flow surplus at the high end with a $4.50 gas price.
Bottom line we have positioned ourselves for one of the highest percent production growth of our peer group while staying within cash flow.
In addition we are able to achieve our goals with just 7 rigs an excellent indication of our capital efficiency.
Our industry has a tendency to significantly outspend cash flow to achieve in some cases a much lower growth rate.
No new hedges were added in the third quarter with one 2012 oil hedge added thus far in the fourth quarter.
The company has 28 contracts for the remainder of '11 production 28 contracts for '12 excluding the 5 basis only hedges and 5 contracts for '13.
You can evaluate those on our website.
Now let's move to operations.
In the north region our Marcellus result in Susquehanna continue to achieve new milestones and again highlight some of the key records that we have set new 24-hour production record of 517 million cubic foot per day from only 94 horizontal wells.
Cabot's fastest well to produce 3 Bcf took only 223 days.
Our fastest well to 4 Bcf took only 347 days.
We're adding drilling efficiencies with our fastest well to TD took just 12.5 days and that was a 3 500-foot lateral.
Cabot's area of the Marcellus produced 16 of the top 20 wells in PA during the first half of 2011.
During the quarter we turned in line a total of 18 wells 17 horizontals and 1 vertical well.
The summer production base newly -- new wells was 153 million cubic foot per day but the production was curtailed due to infrastructure restrictions.
Currently we have 4 rigs operating in Susquehanna with an additional new build scheduled to arrive in November.
Also we currently have a total of 497 stages in various phases of completion.
213 of those are being completed or cleaning up or being -- or waiting to turn in line.
284 of those are waiting to be completed.
We continue to make progress of the many infrastructure projects that will ultimately create one of the largest takeaway capacity systems in the United States.
This week was initial in-service day of our Laser pipe -- the Laser Pipeline located in the northern area of Cabot's lease hold in Susquehanna Laser Pipeline is ultimately designed to carry 150 million cubic foot per day at Cabot's production for sale into the Millennium Pipeline system in New York.
At Laser we currently have a total of 4 wells cleaning up into the line.
We have been asked about the Marcellus in the northern portion of our acreage.
The growth section is slightly shallower and is approximately 240-foot thick versus approximately 350-foot thick where we've been drilling.
Keep in mind the thickness we see in this northern area remains considerably thicker than the Marcellus seen throughout PA.
We anticipate keeping a rig active in the north area and adding volumes throughout the fourth quarter.
We are trying to have Cabot's Marcellus production into a new marketplace.
Next we are anxiously awaiting the startup of Springville pipeline -- excuse me -- now scheduled for early December.
Significant progress has been made to date including the completion of the compression station significant progress on the major bores and completion of the tap into the Transco pipeline.
This is great news as we await the finishing touches on the 24-inch pipeline.
Transco just like Millennium Pipeline represents new markets for Cabot to immediately access.
One new development we're excited about regarding Springville which we did release last night is that Cabot and Williams have agreed to terms regarding the unsubscribed capacity on Springville essentially increasing our position from 300 million cubic foot per day of takeaway to 625 million cubic foot per day.
This additional capacity will be available mid-2012.
With this as a backdrop the majority of our 2012 production will be going to markets not served today by Cabot which we think is an improvement.
When you combine the incremental capacity of 325 million per day to the pre-announced plans for our infrastructure midyear 2012 takeaway now stands at 1.325 Bcf per day.
And the year end total takeaway capacity grows to -- from the 1.2 Bcf per day to 1.525 Bcf per day.
Let me also add that various other projects and expansions we have discussed previously are all on track for on time completion.
As we reported last night with the delays in moving gas Laser and Transco we have combined and been combined to deliver of our Marcellus production into one single 24-inch Tennessee pipeline with the gas on gas competition from the surrounding areas pricing for our northeast Marcellus producers have seen downward pressure.
While we have heard numerous rumors regarding the price we have received for our gas Cabot's monthly average price in fourth quarter has remained above $3 per Mcf during the soft period.
We are mindful that our pending takeaway projects to diversify our production into multiple downstream markets on new interstate pipelines will relieve some of this tension.
Now let's move to the south region.
In our Buckhorn area in the Eagle Ford the company has drilled a total of 24 wells.
Each well is 100% working-interest well in Frio and La Salle County.
21 of these wells are on production with 2 wells completing 1 well waiting on completion and 1 well drilling.
The 2 most recently completed wells produced at initial 24-hour rates of 938 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 791 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In our AMI area with EOG there are 6 wells currently on production in this 18 000-plus-acre area with 3 of these wells drilled and completed in the third quarter and the results are at anticipated levels.
Gross production for both areas in the Eagle Ford is over 7 600 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Cabot intends to drill or participate in 25 to 30 net Eagle Ford wells in 2011.
Now moving to Oklahoma.
Beaver County where we have our Marmaton operation Cabot has continued its effort there with participation as planned in 7 non-operated wells with a few more to go in this quarter.
Last night we highlighted the latest 2 wells and these wells were a significant uptick from our excellent initially operated well.
The second Cabot operated well was spud last week and the well is designed for a 4 000-foot lateral with approximately 16 frac stages.
Cabot intends to drill 2 additional operated wells and will participate in 8 to 10 total non-operated well in 2011.
Cabot now controls approximately 61 500 plus net acres in the play which is up from the 54 000 we previously announced.
We believe the results that we will see in the Marmaton will provide us very favorable economic returns.
In the Heath we have gathered as much information as we could from a poorly drilled and completed well.
We status-ed the well as unsuccessful and we'll take the information we collected and continue our science work in the area.
Science efforts drove our exploration cost above guidance essentially $0.03 for the quarter.
Fortunately we do have long lease terms remaining to work with.
Now moving to 2012 plans in Pennsylvania for 2012 Cabot will have on average 5 rigs running.
We're planning 70 to 78 Marcellus wells.
We also anticipate running 1.5 frac crews for the year.
In Texas and Oklahoma we will remain focused on acreage production.
In the Eagle Ford Cabot will drill or participate in 20 to 30 wells.
In the Marmaton we anticipate that the company will participate in the drilling of between 25 and 30 gross wells with the majority of these wells being operated.
Plans call right now for the company to operate 2 rigs in the south one in the Eagle Ford and one in the Marmaton.
We believe our 2012 program will yield greater efficiencies from a dollar invested perspective than our 2011 program.
We will demonstrate operational efficiencies in both drilling and completion along with some moderation in our overall service cost per completed well.
Additionally we continue to improve efficiencies in our vertical integrated operation with our internal construction of locations roads.
We also provide water hauling and handling and frac-ing in other various and sundry things that we have in house.
In closing Cabot's operations remain simple focus our gas efforts solely in the Marcellus and allocate dollars to the oil window of the Eagle Ford and Marmaton which will drive our double-digit growth and reserves and production year-over-year all within an anticipated cash flow neutral program.
With that summary Holly I'll stop and be happy to answer any questions the group might have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
You made a comment or made a statement in your opening comments there that with the incremental volumes that you signed on Springville for next year would be touching new markets.
Can you add a little bit more color on that and are there any implications in terms of kind of realized prices or costs? Yes I'll let Jeff Hutton handle that Brian.
Brian what we mean by that is the new gas going down Springville will enter Transco's pipeline the lighting [ph] system.
That pipeline goes over to the southern part of New York and actually accesses a number of different utilities and interstate markets that Tennessee gas pipeline does not currently serve.
So we should be better off in a number of different ways with new markets both in the northeast and actually down backhaul on Transco to the Baltimore and DC areas.
Research Division</strong> As we see this new capacity come on is there any change in how we should think about either your realized prices or your cost based on the contracting that you've done there? Not a lot.
The gas price that we'll receive going into Transco and quite frankly into Millennium and Tennessee all that is based primarily on the Appalachian kind of pricing that you would normally see against the Dominion index or on the gas transmission index.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And lastly Dan free cash flow at that     $4.25 gas level at higher gas prices are a pretty rare event as you move closer to this period.
Can you just talked how you're thinking about allocation of that cash additional liquids drilling acquisitions debt pay down dividends et cetera? Well our allocation right now is scheduled basically 2/3 1/3.
2/3 going to the Marcellus and 1/3 going towards liquids.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the way to think about the potential for more substantial free cash flow that you would use that cash to ramp up drilling in the Marcellus at double the rate that you would ramp up the drilling or in terms of capital as you ramp up drilling elsewhere and I'm kind of thinking really onto '12 and maybe beyond.
Scott wanted to make a comment here.
Brian right now as you saw the plan is 850 to 900 that will be dynamic like every year's plan is.
Clearly if we take a snapshot right now that excess will just be used to pay down the revolver.
There's no thought at this point of any kind of dividend increase picking up on what you said.
But some of that money could eventually if we have a need in terms of lease expirations or a new idea or new project some of that can go for some of those new science ideas too.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Lively Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> With the Marcellus capacity at 1.5-plus Bcf a day at year end 2012 when do you guys think you'll actually be able to fill that capacity? And I'm just looking for is that a 2013 2014 event? Well good question Brian and it's safe to say that we have very high expectations of our area otherwise we wouldn't have added additional capacity.
I think being prudent in the market we have today with the commodity price of where it is.
And so we continue to gain efficiencies in our development moving more and more towards a full-blown development mode.
But right now we're just going to try to get out of the fourth quarter of '11 and move into the first quarter of '12.
And we've set our guidance for '12.
We do believe we internally have a lot of work going on beyond '12.
But I'm not prepared to make those projections.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Could you maybe comment a little on what are the constraints there? I mean it's great for the free cash flow positive situation with where you guys are at.
But is that going to be a [indiscernible] do you think going forward given the returns on the wells? Or would you if able actually accelerate some of that growth and outspend a little bit? Well right now our plan is to stay within cash flow.
And fortunately our program has very good capital efficiency within it because of the area we're in that even at a $4 Mcf we can stay within cash flow.
We'll generate a little bit of positive cash flow at a $4.50 price so I think we're in a very unique situation in that case.
And we do fully appreciate the present value aspect of enhancing the profile of our cash flow stream.
And at the right opportunity we will take advantage of that but right now I think it's prudent in this market to stay within what we see as a forward curve and a cash flow neutral program.
[indiscernible] Let me add also the tendency in our industry and part of the dynamic in our industry has been the need to capture leases.
This program laid out for '12 captures the leases all of the leases that would be expiring in '12.
We have no lost opportunity within that cash flow neutral program.
That would be a dynamic for you you might outspend but Cabot doesn't need to do that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's fantastic.
On the asset sales do you guys have an updated expected proceeds? I saw that you gave a closing time for the Rockies in October.
What's the total proceeds for the year now? We're probably pushing $375 million.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question for me.
Dan you might have said this in the prepared remarks but I didn't hear it right.
What was the breakdown of Marcellus production and Eagle Ford production in Q3? No I did not say that.
I'll let Scott run through that.
Brian give me a call afterwards.
We did not break it down by that.
Again you get an idea in the press release.
The gas production in West Virginia is roughly $50 million a day.
Rocky Mountains for the quarter was roughly $25 million a day and the rest would be in Pennsylvania.
Your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> First question is what is the gas differentials for Susquehanna County? Are you -- are embedded in your 2012 guidance? I will refer to Jeff on that also.
For 2012 we're using the -- again we're reselling off the Dominion index and the Colombia index at probably $0.08 to $0.10 or above NYMEX.
And I might add too that markets will be accessing on Transco and Millennium.
We have seen some downward pressure to the differentials in Pennsylvania along [ph]  Tennessee.
We think that it's temporary and once we get to the new market areas we'll see what I'll call back to normal pricing at positive differentials to the NYMEX.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then are you experiencing any service cost relief specifically on the completion side in the Marcellus right now? For our 2012 program Pearce we're in the process of gathering all our service cost and closing down some annual contracts for some of our services and it is our expectation as I mentioned that our service cost will moderate both in the south region and the north region for completed well cost.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then the last question for me.
There's been some reports that you're in the Smackover Brown Dense and I was just curious what's your drilling plans were there as well as what acreage you've leased up? Well we have several projects that are out there that our guys work on from an exploratory sense.
And with that being just exploratory in nature we don't typically comment on what we're doing that far ahead of the curve.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Arif Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just another question in terms of how you're thinking about '12.
What would cause you to increase your rig count from above the 5? I mean I know you've got to take away capacity.
You talked about one in the liquid and cash flow.
But if we see an improvement in gas prices is that the signal you're waiting for? Or is it simply a matter of trying to do it at a steadier pace? Our approach to business just as a general comment is we have so much money to work with.
We're going to strive to stay within a budget.
We set our benchmarks to stay within that budget with the assumption of what gas price we used in our model.
And certainly if we have the opportunity to see an increase in the commodity price from what we've used certainly we'll consider drilling additional wells.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no desire to hedge in additional volumes and accelerate production growth? Hedging is and will remain a consideration for us.
I would love to be able to hedge a strip that would lock in some of what we're discussing here.
With that lock-in of a significant hedge position I think we would probably look at our capital program with those hedges locked in place.
But 12 months through at this stage is probably in the 4 -- is in between our $4 and $4.50.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes that makes sense.
Okay and then just another question in terms of the 2 wells you highlighted in the Marcellus the 4Bs and 3Bs in less than a year.
These are not extended laterals is there something different you were doing on these wells? No there's just some -- geologically we find ourselves and some wells stand out in various different areas that we've been drilling.
And those are some of the poster boy wells that we've had that produce very well.
And frankly we do have a couple of wells to see what they'll do that we do not restrict as much as we do some of our other wells.
And so these are wells that we brought on and allow them to make up a great deal of our production that may be sacrificed to some of the other wells that we'll pinch back.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just one final question.
Can you give us a summary of or just a rough number of how much acreage will be held by production after the end of your '12 drilling? We anticipate that it'll be -- after '12 drilling or '11 drilling? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> After the '12 drilling.
I mean after the program you've laid out for '12.
After '12 drilling I'm thinking we'll have -- even though we'll come back in after we evaluate the production from those wells we'll probably have some more wells some more drilling.
Well we will have more drilling to come back in to drill in some of those acreage that we do have [indiscernible] production.
But I would say 35% to 40%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up to that.
So at what point do you think you'll start doing either more pad drilling or start using some of your more extended laterals that you've been testing at what point do you start changing the way you're developing these wells? Yes and again this is a little bit of a forward look but as we increase our production and we increase our cash flow once we're able to continue to capture our acreage in a very methodical process which we're doing right now and we increase our cash flow enough to allow incremental drilling I think that's when we'll come back in and have those type of pad site set up for 6 wells 8-well 10-well type of pad drilling.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like that's a '14 or '15 event before you really start changing.
[indiscernible] if we can get -- we continue to grow our production and if we can get a little bit of help from the commodity price it could be an earlier event than that.
The next question comes from the line of Gil Yang Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Could you comment on -- what is your -- I know you're cleaning up the 4 wells in -- near the Laser area.
Do you have any sort of comment on what those wells look like in terms of comparison to the rates that you're seeing in the most southern area? Well it's still very early and there's -- only have them on like 3 days.
So they are still cleaning up so the comparison would be a little bit earlier.
A bit early for that.
Three wells into it -- to give you an example 3 wells into it on our wells in the southern area we don't know exactly what they will do at that period of time either.
In fact we have wells that have cleanup going into the 30- to 45- to 60-day period as they continue to clean up.
So it's just way way too early to make that statement.
Research Division</strong> And there's no predictive value in the rate of the cleanup? No there's not.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And what is your current average spud to TD for Marcellus? On well cost? Research Division</strong> Days of drills the wells.
We're between 16 to 18 days.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you're looking at program for 2012 versus the program in 2011 is there proportionally going to be more spend on completions in 2012 than in 2011? Or is it going to be a similar distribution? No we're going to spend some more -- more dollars will be spent in '12 on completions than in '11.
Research Division</strong> Can you give some of the guidance as to how much is going to be for each drilling versus completion? Gil we don't have that number.
I think from a macro perspective remember up until recently we had one frac crew in the Marcellus and we've taken advantage of the dynamic marketplace up there to have 2 crews for a period of time.
As you can see they have worked off -- when we had this call in July we were around 600 stages backlog now just under 500.
We expect that that 500 will decline further as it relates to next year more to more of a working inventory between 200 and 300 stages.
So again if you think of the well numbers that we gave and the speeds were 70 to 78 wells assuming all 15 stage fracs that will give you the number of stages for next year.
And then say incrementally we're going to work off the backlog half the backlog of 250.
That will give you an indication of the number of stages that gets done next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a final question can you just comment on -- you made the comment Dan that you expected services to show some kind of moderation.
Is there a difference in drilling versus completion cost in the south versus the north? Is there more pressure on completion cost in the south than there is in north and vice versa that you're drilling or -- can you comment on that? Well I think the savings we anticipate simply because the majority of the costs are attached to the completion cost.
The majority of what we think we would be able to save compared to -- in '12 compared to '11 will fall in the completion side.
We don't expect a great deal of change in the drilling side for cost actual cost in the north and south.
But we do anticipate that in the north we think we would be able to gain efficiencies with each drilling dollars spent by virtue of penetration rates.
Your next question comes from the line of Ray Deacon Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dan I had a question about current well cost in the Marcellus and also yesterday range mentioned 5.7 and 6.5 Bcf EUs their EUR and so that looked like about a 30% recovery implying there were some potential to increase EURs.
I guess I was just wondering what your thoughts were on that.
Well as far as comparing the drilling cost I think range -- and if they're talking about -- what area were they talking about Ray do you know? Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I think in the southwest they were saying 5.7 and then in Lycoming they were saying they thought 6.5 was the current -- it's current number.
Okay.
Yes and the well cost in the southwest PA is shallower over there.
And as we've been able to see and as the PA DP has put out on well results Southwest does not deliver quite the rates that we're seeing in the northeast portion of Pennsylvania.
And as you move west from our area I think it's also indicative that you don't get quite the rates as you move west into the area that is being drilled that the IPs or EURs are as robust as what we are seeing in our particular area.
But as far as the drill costs are in the southeast are very similar at the $6.5 million to $7 million range depending on the number of frac stages.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great.
So your 10 Bcf EUR well that you booked last year what recovery factor does that work out to? And where could that go I guess? Well and again making the comparison you used 30% on ranges recovery.
Keep in mind that again just the geology is such that southwest PA has a much thinner section than we have.
Our section is 240- to 400-foot thick.
So the in-place reserves that we have in that section compared to 70-foot section or so is significantly different.
So the recoveries that we realize and we're working on right now and have a third-party study out there that will be delivered to us at the end of the year that is trying to arrive at that recovery factor.
But we think we're going to see in our particular area with the efficiency of our completions and no liquids in the majority of our reservoir we don't have any relative perm issues or anything like that we think we have very very good high recovery factors that could push the 50% to 60% range.
Your next question comes from the line of Marshall Carver Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On -- you gave a number of gross wells 25 to 30 gross wells in the Marmaton next year.
How many net wells would that be? All right Matt? That would probably be in the range of I think it's roughly 16 or so operated wells and then I would estimate another 4 so net wells that are non-operated.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just a question on -- yes you did a great job monetizing Rockies and accelerating in the Marcellus this year.
Why not monetize some other assets maybe West Virginia or something next year and accelerate some more? Is that something you're considering? Yes Marshall we have been -- Cabot has consistently evaluated our portfolio and made a number of portfolio rationalizations that has taken advantage of transferring our assets into a more -- a higher PV.
And certainly we'll continue to look at that opportunity out there if the market will allow.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nelson Macquarie.
Just as a follow-up to the response on Gil's question.
Are there more spot frac crews available in northeast Pennsylvania now if you wanted them? And then just as you look into '12 do you see any constraint in the number of crews you can get dedicated? Yes I'll let Phil respond to that.
We have been picking up spot crews.
We have the one we've had full-time and we've been picking up spot crews to do other jobs.
And right now we're not seeing any constraints in 2012.
Great.
And then just on the extended laterals that were mentioned in the press release.
Do you have what the actual lateral length was? The lateral length was -- the longest was like 6 100 feet.
And then the spacing on that was the same as what you guys have been trying or...
Yes the spacing of that was about 250 feet or so.
And those laterals each of those laterals I think one was about 5 500 feet one 6 100 feet.
One had 21 stages.
The other had 26.
Great.
And then just last one for me.
Do you have the amount of [indiscernible] spent on leasehold in the quarter? I don't have that.
Scott do you have...
John it's between $30 million and $40 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Biju Perincheril Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Quick question.
When you think about the incremental volumes on the Springville line does your existing compression capacity and the new units that are coming on next year is that enough or do we need any new compression to get to that 625 on the Springville line? Sure I'll take that one.
The answer is yes.
And the expansion by Williams on Springville will include some additional units at their Wilcox Stations that will allow them to increase the capacity of the line from 300 to the 625 number.
In addition to that there'll be some expansion and another new station that Cabot and Williams will develop along the Springville lateral and also around the Tennessee Gas Pipeline area.
So there's lots of moving parts to this.
And we're well on our way to get all wrapped up at least the big part by mid-year and then the rest by year end.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So think about -- I think you've had for next year talked about 2 new compressor stations coming on Lenoxville and I think the Williams Central.
Are those volumes going to be incremental to what can be moved on Springville? Or is that rerouting some of that? That's kind of a difficult question to answer because we're trying to develop a system there that has a lot of flexibility to it.
Yes Lenoxville will deliver gas into Tennessee Gas Pipeline solely.
However the Lathrop station for example and the original Teel station and a new station we have on the drawing boards the Central Compressor station those will be able to access multiple pipelines.
The design of the system is to have access to 3 different interstate markets 3 very large markets at the same time maintain the field pressures that we think are ideal to produce these wells into and also access the higher price markets.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And Dan I think you talked about this before.
The 2 extended lateral wells that you mentioned in the press release.
Did you say those were not subject to any sort of -- they were not choked back [ph] like some of your other wells is that or were you referring to other wells? Well they were brought on like other wells that are brought on at a little bit of a moderated rate to allow us to continue to clean up.
But we did allow those to produce into the pipe at fairly aggressive rates.
However I would add to that that we did hold some back pressure.
For example as recently as yesterday the wells were producing above line pressure in the 1 400-pound range.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Christensen Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> About how much exploratory leasehold has the company booked so far this year outside of things we know about Marcellus Eagle Ford and Marmaton? Bob part of what we can do on our exploration we just try to stay behind the curtain for as long as we can until all the scouts discover us out there.
Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
Would you say it's more acreage at this time this year than last year then? I mean is the company -- because I'm trying to look out a bunch of years.
Is the company becoming more exploration I guess savvy and interested? Is the appetite growing in that direction? Or do you just have so much to work with that's so high-quality that you know about? I mean I'm just trying to get a tendency of the company.
Yes.
Well we love our position and what we have to work with.
And we have 10-plus years of significant opportunities within our portfolio right now.
But as far as our company being exploration savvy moving out ahead of the curve a good example of what we have internally already is by virtue of -- in 2005 when nobody on this line knew what the Marcellus was Cabot was out leasing in northeast PA for the Marcellus.
And we didn't talk about it and we didn't bring it up.
And we just did our internal work and moved forward without anybody finding out about it until somebody discovered it that we were out there.
So I think we have the ability in-house and have that ability in-house to move out ahead of the curve and be reactive and proactive both on new ideas.
Inc.</strong> Just one final on the Heath if I may.
I mean I think there were 5 other wells by industry up there.
Just question do you know of any successes in the Heath by others? No.
So far what I've seen and I don't have all the detail data information on the industry drilling up there the brief reports I've seen I have not been excited about.
But again a couple of wells don't kill a play particularly in a large geographic area.
We just need to understand it a little bit better and see if it's going to have enough potential for us to make an economic play out of it that would compete with our capital efficient dollars.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall R.W.
Baird.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong> Just 2 quick ones for me.
I was curious if you have the rates on the cumes [ph] that you reported maybe the average rate for the 2 Bcf average for those 30 wells and then perhaps the other rates reported in the ops update? Well the 2 wells that have been of note are still producing well over 15 million cubic foot a day each.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong> Okay.
And then how about those 2 -- did you say 30 wells that averaged over 2 Bcf a day? I was just curious if by chance you have kind of average IP -- I'm sorry the average rate at the time of those cumes [ph].
No I have not averaged those 30 wells Mike.
Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then sorry if I missed it but the 2012 outlook how many wells do you contemplate tying in actually tying into sales in the Marcellus program in that outlook? How many wells do we anticipate tying in? Nicolaus &amp; Company</strong> Yes.
55 to 65.
Your next question comes from the line of Brett Hall Global Hunter.
[indiscernible] if you provided EUR for Marmaton well [ph]? Yes right now and this was early time and we haven't changed that because we're still gathering significant amount of data.
And we can say that some of the tweaking that's being done on maybe the amount of profit that we pumped and things have had some enhancements and compared our initially operated well with the non-operated wells that have been drilled but we're between right now and again this is based on our first well the 175 to 225 boe at this particular time.
And maybe with additional stages frac stages and longer lateral lengths that number will increase.
Keep in mind our initial well was a 10-stage frac.
At this time there are no further questions.
Okay Holly.
I appreciate everybody's attention and I think I'll just say any comment that Cabot I think provides and again this is from many years in the business one of the lowest risk stories to accomplish what I think is an industry-leading result with the cash flow neutral to cash flow positive program that generates in excess of 45% production growth and a 10-plus percent reserve growth with superior capital efficiencies.
I don't think you're going to find that in a program that takes about 7 rigs to accomplish those feat.
So anyway with that I'll end it and again I appreciate everybody's interest in Cabot.
Thank you.
Thank you for participating in today's Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Quarter 3 2011 Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation Fourth Quarter and Year End 2011 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO of Cabot Oil &amp; Gas.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Valerie.
I appreciate everybody joining us for this call.
I have with me today Scott Schroeder our CFO; Jeff Hutton VP of Marketing; Steven Lindeman our VP of Engineering and Technology; Matt Reid our VP and Regional Manager; and Todd Liebl our newly appointed VP of Land and Business Development.
Before I start let me say that the forward-looking statements included in our press releases do apply to my comments today.
All right.
At this time we have many things to cover and expand on particularly the press releases that were issued last night.
I will briefly cover full year financial results the results of our year end reserve analysis.
I will discuss our outlook for Cabot followed by a discussion of our operations in Pennsylvania Oklahoma and Texas including a brand-new takeaway project that we announced in the Marcellus.
Before I go on the details of these topics let me give you a couple of cliff notes of the 2011 for the company.
We grew production 43.5%; grew reserves 12% absolute or 22% pro forma taken in consideration asset sales.
All-in company-wide finding costs of $1.21 per Mcf including an all-in $0.65 per Mcf Marcellus finding cost figure.
We had doubled the level of proved reserves associated with liquids.
2010 Marcellus wells we revised up to 11 Bcf from 10 Bcf.
Undrilled cut [ph] percentage is 36% flat with 2010.
Net income exceeded $100 million for the seventh consecutive year even with the lowest natural gas price realized in that same timeframe.
And our debt levels were reduced year-over-year.
On the financial results.
Cabot reported for 2011 clean earnings of $139 million with discretionary cash flow of about $549 million.
The year experienced the lowest natural gas price since 2004.
Fortunately this was offset by the highest production growth recorded by Cabot.
In terms of full year production the company posted a 43.5% growth rate in 2011 compared to '10.
This was driven by a 42.5% expansion in natural gas volumes which was driven entirely by the Marcellus and a 68% growth in oil and liquid volumes.
From our organic program and net of asset sales Cabot had another stellar year adding reserves to surpass 3 Tcf mark just 2 years after reaching the 2 Tcf mark.
Our oil and liquids reserve bookings contributed by doubling between 2010 and '11.
However the main driver of this growth was the Marcellus effort and the continued strength of this drilling program.
As we have highlighted in previous presentations we have wells that rank as the top performers included -- including released last week by Pennsylvania 8 of the top 10 for cumulative production during the last 6 months of 2011.
For 2011 the typical 15-stage well has been booked at 11 Bcf while the 2010 Marcellus program EUR average was raised to 11 Bcf from 10 Bcf.
Also of note is Cabot did book a couple of wells with EURs in excess of 20 Bcf creating a high watermark for Cabot and most likely the industry.
At the end of 2011 we adjusted our PUD portfolio removing the EUR in the Marcellus moving the EUR in the Marcellus slightly higher to 7.5 Bcf for the representative 10-stage well.
We also once again removed legacy PUD bookings throughout our portfolio which were not in the queue for drilling totaling 190 Bcfe.
As result and as mentioned our undrilled PUD reserves account for 36% of the totals with another 5% drilled but not yet frac-ed and we have a 59% proved developed percent.
In terms of economics the Marcellus finding cost of $0.65 per Mcf is a standout for the 2011 program.
And considering the oil and liquids efforts by the company the $1.21 per Mcf oil source number is also very competitive.
As you're aware the oil dollars are converted 6:1.
Let me also recap with our 2011 program what we are able to deliver.
Net of asset sales legacy PUD removal and record production which was about 600 Bcf we had double-digit reserve growth we had competitive finding cost and a debt-reducing program.
Obviously '11 being a good program the question quickly moves to what are we going to do in '12 as an encore to '11? Before I go into the operations report I think it would be beneficial to review our thoughts on the macro environment and also discuss our rationale for capital allocation decisions.
We are all aware of the supply-demand imbalance that exists today for natural gas.
Our industry is starting to make adjustments by laying down rigs reducing capital allocated to natural gas plays and throttling back on production growth expectations.
Once gas is as good as another on the short-term midterm effects on supply and the resolved effects of value per Mcf.
Regarding demand we continue to see evidence of natural gas increases in use in power generation transportation considerations with ongoing expectations and applications for export opportunity.
We experienced a no-show for the winter this year which has left storage at a historic high and lingering concerns for 2012 prices.
The industry has made a statement that current market prices will not yield sufficient returns for further capital allocation.
Active leasing for natural gas plays is virtually 0.
Some companies have elected to allow fringe acreage to expire instead of burning capital.
Virtually every company now discusses its desire to allocate capital to liquid-rich plays and Cabot is no exception to that.
However Cabot does have a large acreage position area in the Marcellus that continues to yield excellent returns at the current market rate.
As evidenced by the most recent release by the PA environmental protection on well data it remains evident that Cabot has the most robust position in the Marcellus.
In fact our internal rate of return exceeds many areas in the Permian Bakken and Eagle Ford.
Even with these results taken in consideration the efficiencies we have gained in our drilling and completion operations and the fact that we continue to manage our primary term acreage we are able to reduce our capital allocation to the Marcellus by about 15% to 20% or $100 million and still maintain a top-tier growth program of 35% to 50%.
Again I will mention that we are going to maintain our acreage -- all our acreage in the Marcellus.
We've taken our foot off the pedal somewhat.
Our value-added growth allows us to maintain financial discipline and our cash flow.
This will have the effect of bringing our investment to within $50 million to $75 million of anticipated cash.
I might add we do feel the market correction for the price of natural gas has begun.
With that said though the pace of recovery is uncertain.
And our 2012 program will be allocating 40% to 45% of our capital to our liquids plays.
It is not insignificant that we increased our oil production by 68% last year and we expect to yet again experience greater than 55% increase in our oil production in '12.
Though we're in a soft market for natural gas as I mentioned we do feel the floor has been found.
As natural gas continues to increase its share of energy demand across the U.S.
and the world I do like our position and expect Cabot to regain the returns it has recently lost in the market.
In regard to hedging the company added new oil hedges.
Since our last report the company has 31 contracts for 2012 production including 27 contracts for gas at $5.22 and 4 contracts for oil at $99.30 and 7 contracts in 2013 5 gas and 2 oil.
In the Marcellus our results in Susquehanna continue to excel.
During the fourth quarter we achieved a new daily production record of 606 million cubic foot per day which is 370 million cubic foot per day greater than year end 2010 and a ninefold increase from 2009 exit rates.
The well results in Susquehanna continue to show why they're in a class of their own as we have highlighted in our release.
Cabot added a new build rig which brings us to a total of 5 rigs operating in Susquehanna.
2 of the 5 rigs are equipped with the latest technology and can run on natural gas as a fuel source.
This is a system we will install and utilize when our CNG station becomes operational in May.
For the year Cabot completed 904 frac stages which is an increase of 71% from 2010.
In the fourth quarter we signed a new frac contract which I mentioned previously which will reduce our frac cost by more than 30% with even further reductions on all stages after 60 stages are accomplished in a given month.
In the initial 2 months of operations this new crew has completed 82 stages and 92 stages respectively.
Currently we have 198 stages completing cleaning up or waiting to be turned in line and an additional 326 stages waiting to be completed.
To help manage capital our plan is to reduce our well count in the Marcellus by approximately 10 wells and with no price improvement we will reduce our rig count to 3 rigs in the Marcellus by the end of the year.
Additionally we will attempt to maximize our frac completion level to take advantage of the most efficient dollars from our new contract working off our backlog and completing newly drilled wells.
Again I will mention that we do plan on maintaining all of our acreage.
2011 was a tremendous year in terms of the infrastructure buildout for us.
During the year we added significant capacity with the final completion of the Lathrop station to Teel station upgrade and the initiation of volumes into Laser Pipeline.
In early '12 we commenced deliveries into the Springville line completing our initial plans for flexibility and diversification of our markets.
In fact today approximately 50% of our volumes are currently flowing into Transco 10% of our volumes are flowing into Millennium and 40% are flowing into Tennessee.
The remainder of '12 will be focused on completing our current plan for additional takeaway projects we have previously reported.
Our lead projects are classified as work-in-progress.
There have been continual changes some positive some negative as the planned completion date move around.
Let me be clear the environment surrounding infrastructure buildout is both dynamic and challenging with ever-changing rule book and policy changes.
We do intend to update you on new compressor stations new pipeline and upgrades to existing facilities throughout the year as we place them into service.
However as of right now the plan for exiting 2012 with approximately 1.5 Bcf of takeaway capacity remains our expectation.
That said we will -- we also reported this morning a joint venture with Williams Partners LP to develop and construct a new high-pressured pipeline to serve both New York and New England markets through their Transco affiliate.
Cabot will own 500 million per day capacity on the new constitution pipeline.
This pipeline for the future is our next major step for development of our Marcellus resource and will ensure that Cabot's production will reach the most constrained demand area in the country.
We expect the market to be fully supportive of this new link between the Marcellus and our customers' operating area throughout the Northeast.
Specifically the pipeline will move gas from our central compressor station in Susquehanna County to Iroquois Gas Transmission and onto the Tennessee Gas Pipeline 200 line.
Although the in-service date is anticipated early in 2015 we feel this timing is ideal as we internally plan for the future growth of Cabot.
Cabot will be an investor in this project for a 25% equity interest valued at $175 million to $200 million.
Again most of this expense will be coming in years '14 and '15.
The northern part of our acreage where we've done some drilling our reserve report has limited information included as it relates to the wells drilled in the what we'll call the Laser or northern portion.
If you recall during the last 2 months of '11 the Laser Pipeline was placed in service only to be shut-in with miscellaneous startup in operational challenges.
Those challenges were partly due to some water production that made its way into the system by other operators.
As we have stated before the northernmost area of our acreage position gets slightly shallower and begins to thin from the top of the section down.
This thinning is relative however as the section is still over 200-foot thick.
Additionally several large traverse faults go across this area.
About 10% to 12% of our acreage falls in this more complex geology.
We think this area is going to require greater attention to our lateral placements than the area to the south in order for us to deliver more efficient fracs to the entire length of lateral.
Though it's still early in our drilling and completion efforts in the northern part we do feel the wells in this area will yield similar to the performance we reported by other operators in other portions of the state.
Moving south from this complex fault area you quickly get away from the concern of lateral placements and any issues.
In regard to spacing Cabot commissioned a third party to determine among other things the optimal well development spacing for the Marcellus in our Susquehanna area.
This team was selected based on their experience completing similar studies for the major North American shale plays in addition to their experience in the Marcellus.
This study evaluated log information core data micro size data reservoir pressure data and well production volumes and flowing pressures.
In fact physical model was generated the resulted data was subsequently input into a stimulation -- in simulation model and a history match was generated based on wells producing in the study area.
Once validated multiple simulations were generated to determine the optimum well spacing.
The result of this analysis determined that wells in the lower Marcellus may be optimally spaced at a distance of approximately 1 000 feet between laterals which will allow for an upper Marcellus well to be drilled at a distance of 500 feet away from each lower Marcellus lateral in an inverted V pattern.
Cabot is currently drilling a pilot program to test the simulation results.
The wells will be TD-ed and completed by the end of the second quarter.
However 6 months to 1 year of production in pressure data will be required to determine if the effectiveness of the pilot program is working and evaluate all the study results.
The total number of locations based on this study is about 3 000 Marcellus and Purcell wells.
Also with a little over 100 wells producing today there remains tremendous upside and many years of inventory to contribute to our existing and planned takeaway projects including of course our new pipeline to the Northeast.
Now let me move to the South area in our Buckhorn area and the Eagle Ford.
The company has drilled a total of 28 wells.
Each well is 100% working interest well and the area lies in Frio La Salle and Atascosa Counties.
27 of these wells are in production with one well waiting on completion and one well drilling.
As we gather information results we realize how much additional running room we have.
Some of the positives from our ongoing study are a 26% increase in booked EURs in our 2011 program versus our 2010 program a 34% increase in EUR per foot of lateral drill a 23% increase in our maximum peak production rate and near sevenfold increase in gross oil production from the Eagle Ford.
Recent well highlights include the last 7 wells all in the fourth quarter averaged 24-hour peak rate was 861 BOE per day with these 3 wells over 1 000 BOE -- excuse me the 24-hour rate was 861 BOE with the 3 wells being over 1 000 BOE.
The 30-day average of all these wells was 566 BOE.
In our AMI area with EOG there are 9 wells presently on production in this 18 000-acre area with the last 3 wells testing at peak rates that averaged over 1 000 BOE per day.
Gross production from both areas in the Eagle Ford is approximately 7 600 BOE per day.
Cabot intends to drill or participate in approximately 25 to 30 net Eagle Ford wells in 2012.
As was highlighted last week by peer in several pairs in fact and in our operations release Cabot is testing downspacing in the Eagle Ford down to 50 acres at this time.
In the Marmaton Cabot's progress in the Marmaton Beaver County Oklahoma oil play continues with 3 operated wells on production with an average 24-hour production rate of 429 BOE per day.
Our fourth operated well is flowing back after frac with our fifth operated well completing and a sixth well drilling.
Also Cabot has participated in 12 non-operated wells of which 9 are producing 2 are drilling and 1 is completing.
Our average working interest in these wells is 15.3% with an average NRI of 12.1%.
With the limited capital plan we have this year and the enhanced results we're seeing in the Eagle Ford we are planning to use 2 rigs in the Eagle Ford and move the Marmaton rig south while we schedule and permit additional wells in the areas we are seeing the most extensive fracturing in our Marmaton play.
Just a quick comment on the Brown Dense we have just begun flowing back our well there and have no additional information than that.
2 000 plans in closing Cabot's operations remain fairly simple.
We will continue to focus our gas efforts solely in the Marcellus and allocate dollars in the oil window of the Eagle Ford which will drive our double-digit growth in reserves and production year-over-year and all still within 5% to 10% of anticipated cash flow.
Valerie with that executive summary I'll stop and be happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Lively of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few questions on the -- Dan your comments on the Marcellus simulation model.
Just curious what is the assumed EURs for the upper and lower Marcellus? Let me see well in the lower Marcellus we have 11 Bcf as our assumed EUR which is what we have been drilling today Brian.
And the assumed EUR in the Purcell upper Marcellus as we stagger these wells we kind of used what our PUD number is right now at 7.5 Bcf until we get further information.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's -- I assume that's what's loaded in the simulation work.
So what key -- what are the key history match variables? I'll let Steve Lindeman answer that.
Brian the key history match variables are really the production rate and pressure that we've seen on the 2 offsetting wells that we have modeled and then obviously as we get an in-fill well we will then look at that similar information to see how it matches our model.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then I'm curious too just because the wells have been so productive as you guys have history matched I guess some of the production pressure data so far what type of permeabilities are you guys able to match to? Well Brian I'll have to get back with you.
I don't remember exactly what the permeability numbers were in the model.
I was more concerned about the match and how it corresponded to the history.
What they did is took the petrophysical data that they had from the logs and then correlated that back to what core data we had to then get a permeability match.
And that matched extremely well and then we applied that to the production history again to validate the model.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just a last question on the simulation work.
Are you guys integrating the downhole with the surface conditions? Meaning do you have a long-term forecast of compression and pressures and that sort of thing? Yes.
The initial modeling that we did was at the -- a higher line pressure but the really the ultimate model when we looked at our NPV analysis we looked at a lower line pressure.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Dan on the $100 million of lower CapEx the question I think is probably out there for everyone is at what gas price would you guys add that $100 million back? That's a good question.
What we see and what we're able to accomplish with this $100 million reduction we're able to maintain our acreage we're able to deliver still double-digit production growth we're within the $50 million $75 million of cash flow.
We have a production growth of 35% to 50%.
And with that being said we're comfortable in delivering that program and if it looks like that more on a macro sense that the market has corrected itself in a way that will not create volatilities then we would probably start adding additional capital.
If it's just kind of a near-term spike in prices or something like that we'll probably stay the course that we've outlined and until we see some macro improvements in the market.
And the next question comes from Joseph Allman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Jeanine Wai.
I just had a quick question on your lower Smackover.
I know you said that you're just slowing back the first well.
But I was just wondering if you could give a little more clarity around the acreage position you have and where it's located.
No we have not gone into that at this stage but as soon as we come up with some well results and all we'll be able to come out with more detailed information.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the second question as far as your decline curves in the Marcellus are they really representative or are the production curves kind of flatter because of the physical constraints that are going on right now? I would say that because we're producing into a higher line pressure they're a little bit flatter than what we would see if we have the opportunity to flow into a lower line pressure.
But again I think they're pretty consistent through from well to well and we see a pretty good decline that's consistent.
The next question comes from Gil Yang of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Dan you said that the PUDs were moved to 7.5 Bcf for 10-stage well.
What were they booked at before? We had those at 6.5.
Research Division</strong> 6.5 for all the 10 stages? Yes.
That was again 10 stages correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 2010s were how many stages? Yes 20 -- go ahead Scott.
Gil 2010 PDPs we assumed 14 stages.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the 2011 was you said was 11 -- 15 stages but 11 Bcf? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how many PUDs per PDP you've been booking? We're at just slightly below or right at 1:1.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is that going to change anytime soon? We're comfortable with that.
We've been managing our PUD book as you're aware in light of the SEC 5-year rule and in the last couple of years we've been managing that PUD book.
We probably have just a handful of PUDs still that we'll continue to manage into next year and that will be taken care of.
But we're comfortable with our PUD booking at this stage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How much lower -- could you cut more capital and still maintain your acreage? Or what kinds of resistance to cutting additional capital would there be in your program? Are you obligated to the 4 rigs for this year and you're going up to 3 later in the year? Or what kind of limitations do you have in terms of additional changes to your budget? Well there's a number of things that balance in making a decision to cut capital.
We're still trying to retain as much efficiency in our program as we can and the greatest gain of efficiency is when we can drill multiple wells from a pad site.
That gets strained a little bit as we have to incorporate the development of our acreage out there.
And to reduce capital further create somewhat additional inefficiencies if we have more rig moves.
And it'd be difficult in my opinion to reduce capital much further than we are right now in the Marcellus.
Obviously we could still reduce some spending in the Eagle Ford by maybe only having 1.5 rigs for the entire year versus 2.5 -- versus 2 rigs.
But we don't anticipate doing that.
Research Division</strong> All right great.
And just a last question.
What's your -- what's the current total backlog of wells that are at some stages not being -- not producing? What do you expect it to be by the end of the year? Are you talking about in the Marcellus? Research Division</strong> In the Marcellus how many frac stages are not yet producing in some stages being completed or waiting on pipeline? Yes.
Gil in the speech we said we've got 198 stages completing cleaning up or waiting to turn in line and an additional 326 stages waiting to be completed.
Research Division</strong> And where is that going to go by the end of the year? Well the simple math is even if you drill just say 1.5 wells per month with the rigs and assume a 15 Bcf -- excuse me a 15-stage completion and averaged somewhere between -- even though they've done really good on the first 2 months of 82 and 92 stages for the frac crew assume 70 80 stages a month by the frac crew that's -- you can do some good math with that.
The next question comes from Pearce Hammond on Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> You guys had a lot of success last year of reducing your well cost in the Marcellus.
I'm just curious how you see that trending this year.
Well this year with the program that we've announced and having a number of rig moves as opposed to just parking on a location and drilling out that particular location we anticipate the efficiency gain to be relatively flat from the gains that we have to date.
We don't anticipate gaining a great deal more just because of the nature of how we're having to conduct our operations.
Research Division</strong> Now I know you've already signed your frac-ing contract the 13-month frac-ing contract.
Do you see on other services potential for lower cost that would flow through to your walls? On the -- and this is a little bit of speculating right now Pearce but on the vendors that we pick up on a spot basis and the announcement made by a number of companies that they would be reducing their rig count whether it's because of natural gas or whether it's a result of the Pennsylvania impact fee that has been imposed I could see where spot vendors and that type of service could be coming down as some would desire to keep their crews or services busy.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on a leading-edge basis how many stages are you completing per well right now? And is there a difference between the North and the South within Susquehanna County? No.
We're -- right now we have -- are completing as our '11 program indicated about 15 stages per well.
And when you move to the -- and do we hope to be able to get that a little bit higher? We would hope to be 16 to 17 for our total program in '12.
And what we did in moving up in the North area we recognized certainly with our size that it was a little bit more complex at the very northern end of our acreage and to additional faulting and we went out there and frac-ed a couple of our early wells and -- but we did set up our micro-size work and as we were frac-ing the early wells we just kind of went through the fracs.
And then after we integrated the micro-size work and we started looking at the micro size we determined that the efficiency of some of the fracs along the line drill if they get off into a fault we're not getting good efficiencies in those frac stages and in fact through our micro-size work in the northern end when we started pumping if we had -- did not get to the pump pressures we wanted to see and felt like we were losing efficiency we just shut down a couple of the fracs on those wells and said we're just not going to pump that stage and move to the next stage.
And that's how we monitored the frac-ing up there with micro size.
And that's why I made the statement that as we place these laterals up in this faulted area we're going to have to just be a little bit more selective on not only where we lay the laterals but how we pick the frac stages.
And the next question comes from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan a couple of questions.
Just going back to those -- the northern wells.
How many do you have now producing there? And do you have a number on what the average well is up there? We have about 9 wells producing right now.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then how many of those wells had issues didn't have -- had an ineffective assimilation? Well we had -- at least half of those wells had issues with what we would deem getting effective frac stages put away.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do you have a number on the well frac did it have an issue what those wells are producing now? I don't know.
That group that path just went online so it's very early.
And because it was right on the pipeline Biju we limited our flow back and we're cleaning these up in the line.
But we believe that early indications are that they are performing a lot better than the first pad sites.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then I think you mentioned you're going to go 3 rigs by the end of the year.
What is sort of the timeline from going to 5 to 3? When is that first and second rig's going to come off? Biju this is Scott.
The first one kind of rolls off in the July time period and the next one late third quarter or early fourth quarter.
So again back to the earlier question if we do see some positive changes in the macro that Dan talked about we could change that decision at that time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
So if you do end up going to 3 rigs then how do you think about your program the next few years from an HBP requirement standpoint like what kind of rig activity do you need? We have every expectation of maintaining our acreage and again we balanced our '12 program and I realize it's kind of a snapshot.
But with the efficiency we have in drilling out there I think we can maintain our pace if we look at the horizon and see optimism we can maintain our pace and catch up fairly quick.
And certainly our intent is to stay ahead of the frac rate.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the oil side if I look at your first quarter guidance if I look at the midpoint you're guiding to a sequential decline.
Is that just some conservatism bolt into the guidance? It doesn't look like you changed it from the last time you updated it.
Or is there something from a completion schedule that could cause that? No we're just -- we just are relatively conservative with our guidance.
We think the range of 5 000 to 6 000 barrels is okay at this time.
And again once we get deeper in the year then we'll look at both our gas and oil and I think certainly our oil is anticipated to increase.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jack Aydin of KeyBanc Capital markets.
Research Division</strong> A question for you guys.
How quickly could you respond to change in prices and what is the price inflection that you might get 50% plus ROR? Well I'll let Scott visit about the ROR a little bit because he's been in a lot of work on that but as far as the price change Jack again I'm not trying to dodge the question but it is going to be more of a fuel of the overall market and the strength of the overall market and make sure that we have some support and that we feel like that the supply-demand function is in fairly close balance.
And as far as the ROR I'll let Scott visit about that.
Jack as we highlighted in our press release back in January when we announced the exit rate for the Marcellus and reinforced the rate of return and that was on account of a $3.18 when we telegraphed the realizations for the fourth quarter at $3 we're still modeling a 50% for tax rate of return.
And so these things as Dan alluded to in his speech are still highly economic even at this $3 strip that we're hanging around at this point in time.
Research Division</strong> The next question I have is basically when you look at 3 000 locations and you -- the simulation and everything what percentage of those locations is going to be Purcell or upper [indiscernible]? Do you have a number there? No I haven't looked at it exactly Jack.
I think it'll probably be 25% to 30% would be in the -- maybe 40% would be in the Purcell upper Marcellus.
And then next question comes from Joe Stewart [ph] of Citigroup.
On the 2011 Marcellus wells what's the average 24 IP in those? On 2011 wells Joe? Yes 2010 was 16.4 million a day if I remember correctly.
Well I think it's going to be similar to that.
It's going to be 15 million to 16 million cubic foot a day.
Okay got it.
So the cume [ph] production that's probably going to be pretty close to in line with what you had pointed out in a couple of your presentations about 2.75 Bs in the first year does that sound right? That's going to be...
We're modeling about 22.5% in the first year in terms of what the cumes [ph] would be.
Okay got it.
And then you kind of hinted to it a little bit earlier but on the absolute well cost in 2012 with the 30% reduction in the completions aren't you still expecting a decrease in the total well cost? Yes.
We're looking at plus or minus $6 million for a 15-stage well.
Okay great.
So plus or minus $6 million versus average of about $6.75 million before right? Yes.
Okay.
So really that should get your pretax IRR to something closer to 70% at $3 gas if everything else stays the same but you have the 11 Bcf EUR now versus the 2010 right? Yes.
I don't know that I'd go as high as 70% but I know the number would be above 50% maybe somewhere in the 60% range.
Okay.
All right great.
And then -- so the PUDs in the Marcellus how many PUDs do you have booked now? We have about 150 undrilled PUDs.
150 okay.
Great.
And the next question comes from Andrew Coleman of Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on Btu content for the Marcellus I guess what range of Btu content have you seen in...
We've seen 1 020.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess what sort of -- do you have any CO2 or nitrogen up in that -- up where you produce? No we do not.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess how low down -- I mean I've heard folks talk about ranges throughout the state as low as 800.
I mean is that consistent with what you've seen in your analysis of the state? 800 what? 800 Btu per Mcf.
No where we are we're at 1 020.
[indiscernible] have you seen that? We haven't looked at that.
No I'm sorry Andrew.
I have not looked at that across the state.
[Operator Instructions] We do have a follow-up question from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick question Dan.
You mentioned $1.4 billion future development costs.
Is that for the wells that are undrilled only? Or does that include the wells that are waiting on completion? That's all-inclusive.
That is -- is for reserve report capital.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Well thanks Valerie.
I appreciate everybody's interest in the program and I hope everybody appreciates a little bit more of the adjustments that we've made to the program and some of the reasons why we did.
Kind of the top 5 takeaway is that certainly we have top-tier Marcellus production and that's evidenced by the most recent DEP release on all the wells in the Marcellus.
We have a new catalyst and a new pipeline coming the constitution pipeline which we think is setting the stage for a very opportune time that we see out on the horizon for the natural gas market.
We have seen some 20 Bcf wells in our area and we are excited about how they perform.
Our cash flow focused investment program even at the current strip price I think is going to yield very very good returns both in production and in reserves.
And with the year end 2012 I think we're going to be able to mimic what we've done in 2011 and that's have a double-digit growth in both production and reserves and our balance sheet is going to be very strong moving into '13.
Thank you for your interest in Cabot.
Goodbye.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO of Cabot Gas.
Thank you Shea.
I appreciate it.
And good morning and thank you for joining us for this call.
A couple of members with me on the management team Scott Schroeder CFO; Jeff Hutton our VP of Marketing; Steve Lindeman VP of Engineering and Technology; Matt Reid our VP of Regional -- and Regional Manager; and Todd Liebl our VP of Land and Business Development.
As you're aware the standard forward-looking statements included in the press release do apply to my comments today.
At this time we have several things to cover and expand on the press releases that were issued last night.
I'll cover the first quarter financial results recent successes from our drill bit effort followed by a discussion of our operations.
Now before I do go into the details of these topics I'll start with a brief highlight of last night's release.
Cabot grew production 58% over the comparable quarter last year including a 55% growth in natural gas plus an impressive 138% growth in liquids.
The growth figures include only a few days of the new production we recently brought online in the Marcellus coming from a 7-mile step-out to the east of our existing production.
The wells have free flowed 70 million to 80 million-plus cubic foot per day since being turned in line.
Also of note are increasing liquids production.
It's continuing in both Oklahoma and Texas.
Plus we'll cover briefly the initial down-spacing success we had in our Buckhorn area of the Eagle Ford.
And finally we're excited to announce our exposure to the Utica liquids window of about 50 000 net acres.
This potential will be tested with a well to spud this summer.
Let's move to financial results and last night the company reported clean earnings of approximately $29 million driven by our significant production increase that did more than offset the weak natural gas prices.
On the production side in terms of the significant uptick in production the Marcellus Eagle Ford and to a little bit lesser extent the Marmaton were the driving forces.
One item to note is that the 2011 first quarter results include 2.5 Bcf of Rocky Mountain production which we sold last year.
The equivalent pro forma growth would be about 70% regardless that the quarter was a record breaker production-wise.
The first quarter production landed at the midpoint of guidance even with the shutdown of the Lathrop Compressor Station during the last days of the quarter.
This event will not change our full year production guidance of 35% to 50% growth which we reaffirmed last night.
Our net exit rate for natural gas for the quarter was approximately 623 million cubic foot per day while oil was 5 870 barrels per day.
With the completion successes in April some of which are provided in the operations release April's net production has averaged 655 million cubic foot per day for gas and 6 500 barrels of oil per day which provide the basis for modeling the second quarter.
For cost guidance we updated other taxes to fully reflect the new impact fee in Pennsylvania.
Additionally we updated exploration expense and discussed pension expense.
Let's talk about our plans a little bit.
The Cabot operation plan remains basically unchanged for 2012.
We continue to focus our capital allocation towards our drilling in the Marcellus and the remainder of our capital dollars are being allocated in the oil window of the Eagle Ford and into the Marmaton.
Currently we have 7 rigs operating in our plays between Pennsylvania Texas and Oklahoma.
We remain committed to balancing these efforts with our anticipated cash flow.
However as you might be aware of the forward curve lower than our February forecast our plan does result in slightly more utilization of the revolver this year.
We have been asked the question a number of times will we slow down or change our investment program? Really my answer is this that with the strength of the balance sheet and our objective to secure all our acreage in the best -- maybe the only return gas play in the country and with the continued growth of our liquids production in Texas and Oklahoma we plan to keep our operation program as budgeted.
And regarding hedging the company did not add any hedges since our February call.
Our existing hedges are on the website and represent 39% of midpoint guidance.
We also have 7 contracts in 2013 5 gas and 2 oil.
We continue to look at potential for hedging a portion of our oil production as we increase that production strength but we do not anticipate hedging gas at these levels.
Now let's move specifically into the operation area in the Marcellus.
Our results in Susquehanna County continue to excel.
Since our last call we have achieved a new production record of 678 million cubic foot growth per day which is over 70 million cubic foot per day greater than our last call.
A review of our production history indicates we have produced over 250 Bcf from our Susquehanna area since first production 39 months ago.
This translates into close to or over $1 billion in revenue and approximately $125 million paid in royalty.
This is substantial evidence of the positive impact we're having on the local community up there and certainly the state of Pennsylvania.
Cabot continues to operate 5 rigs in Susquehanna with our plan to reduce this count during the second half of the year by a couple of rigs.
In operations release last night we highlighted a couple of key data points.
Specifically of note was one 2-well pad site with a total of 40 stages completed which yielded a combined 30-day average of 40 million cubic foot per day a couple of pretty good wells.
These 2 wells were slightly longer laterals than our average well and illustrated the efficiencies gained with longer laterals.
A second key data point and I think most importantly is our 5-well pad site on the east portion of our acreage.
This is approximately 7 miles from current production.
These 5 wells we completed a total of 92 stages as highlighted last night.
And it is worth repeating these 5 wells have averaged about 78 million cubic foot per day over the last 20 days.
The successful completion of these wells indicates our eastern acreage should be equally as productive as the central portion of our area and certainly without question de-risk another substantial portion of our acreage.
Another initiative underway in the Marcellus is our pilot program to determine the optimal well spacing and also to look at the Upper Marcellus.
We recently completed 2 lateral wells spaced 500 feet and located between 2 existing wells that had a combined cumulative production of over 10 Bcf from the Lower Marcellus.
One of the 500-foot space laterals was landed in the upper Marcellus and the other was landed in the lower Marcellus.
Both of these wells have been completed and are cleaning up very nicely.
As these results come more available we will share those results with you when we have those.
Currently we have 238 stages completing cleaning up or waiting to turn in line and an additional 333 stages waiting to be completed in the Marcellus.
Our new completion crew continues to make progress with its efficiency.
For March this crew completed 107 stages a new high for Cabot.
Because of the efficiencies gained and the macro outlook for natural gas we are no longer planning to bring a second crew in for 2012.
In regard to our infrastructure up there our plans continue on course at a consistent and steady pace.
During the first quarter we reached a significant milestone with the start-up of the Zick [ph] compressor station.
Although we are free-flowing and currently only utilizing the dehydration and measurement facilities the station is operational.
The compressors will be commissioned during June.
Other stations new pipelines additional connections and upgrades to its existing facilities are continuing as planned.
And we have indicated before we intend to exit 2012 with approximately 1.5 Bcf takeaway capacity.
Also of note I might mention that the Lathrop station is back at 100% with all 7 compressor units operating.
In regard to the pricing up there in the Marcellus let me give you a quick update.
Everyone is aware of the weak commodity prices the industry is experiencing.
In addition we as well as other Marcellus producers have experienced some discounting to the historic Appalachia Surplus and Pricing Index.
However with the flexibility of our Springville line to Transco and the Laser system to Millennium our pricing is flat to minus $0.03 to $0.05 below the Henry Hub.
We expect that trend to continue in that range.
Now let's move to South Texas into the oil window of the Eagle Ford and our Buckhorn area.
The company has drilled a total of 30 wells.
Each well is 100% working interest well located in Frio La Salle and/or Atascosa County.
29 of these wells are oil production with one well waiting on completion and one well drilling.
As we highlighted last night our down-spacing test results in the Eagle Ford has indicated success based on the early test data coming from the 2 wells.
These 2 wells were drilled with approximately 5 900-foot laterals at a spacing of 400 feet between the wells which translates into approximately 55 acres per well.
The test rates of each well had approximately 790 barrels of oil per day over 24-hour period are certainly encouraging.
We plan to continue to monitor these wells with plans for additional down-spacing test later this year.
Should be these results be implemented in our total development plan we would have anywhere between 550 to 700 total potential locations just in Buckhorn.
Gross production from both Buckhorn and our Presidio [ph] area which is a joint venture area with EOG is approximately 9 800 barrels per day with our net production from the Eagle Ford at 5 700 barrels per day.
Cabot intends to drill or participate in 20 to 25 net Eagle Ford wells in 2012.
Now a brief statement in our Marmaton effort which has a couple of pretty nice wells up there.
Cabot has 6 operated wells on production with 2 wells completing and one well drilling.
The latest 2 operated wells have provided very positive data points to continue to assess this play.
The results were in last night's release.
The most prolific well has a cumulative production of 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent in the first 50 days of production.
That's about 87% oil.
We will continue to drill with one operated rig in the area at this time and probably for the remainder of '12.
In the Marmaton our effort continues to identify the more highly fractured areas of the play with slightly over 69 000 net acres.
That's our perspective for the Marmaton.
We certainly have a lot of running room up there.
Shea with that I'll be more than happy to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if I could follow up on the comment in your -- that you said in your prepared remarks that you were going delay bringing in a second frac crew.
Does that have an impact on maybe pushing CapEx into more towards the bottom of your range for this year? Or do you still plan to complete -- and will you build a backlog as a result? Or do some of the efficiency gains you highlighted offset that? Well we'll continue to have a backlog simply by the nature of drilling from pads and how the gathering lines are being hooked up to completed pads.
We have a significant effort to get those gathering lines to those pads that have been completed but that will continue to have a backlog.
In regard to -- certainly we're gaining the efficiencies from just the 24-hour crew implementation out there.
We do not expect there to be a great deal of reduction in the CapEx because we're going to continue to -- because of the average stages per month we're going to continue to complete as many stages as we had originally planned even bringing another crew in for a period of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do you anticipate drilling any additional step-out wells to kind of further gain confidence in area like this [ph]? Or do you feel like you have largely done that with the step-out wells that you announced to the east here? We've had a lot of confidence probably certainly more than maybe some of the comments that we've heard.
We've had a great deal of confidence in our acreage position.
We are drilling wells in all areas of our acreage position.
It's just the ability to get those wells hooked up.
And flowing would be delayed somewhat just because of the distance from the compressor stations that we're putting in and the interstate pipeline.
But we would gain the data from those particular wells by simply the drilling which we have.
Our next question comes from Amir Arif from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 3 quick questions.
Just first on the Upper Marcellus zone test the well that's cleaning up do you have a sense of timing of when you'll have some numbers and confidence or color to provide on that? Yes.
We've been flowing back.
The wells I would say have cleaned up very nicely.
We have -- and we'll provide color both on the micro-size work that we did and the offset wells and the monitoring there.
That was positive to our thesis that the upper Marcellus is not being drained the Lower Marcellus completions.
We are flowing back those wells as we speak.
And we anticipate us giving more color on that I would say within 45 to 60 days.
But so far so good.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the compressor does seem to be not affected by the Lower Marcellus from what you're seeing on the...
Yes.
We're pleased with the pressures we saw.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then secondly on the Eagle Ford the 400-foot spacing I mean it's obviously going to increase the number of locations you have as you mentioned.
But I noticed the IP rates were also better.
But was it just the frac? Or are you -- is it just longer laterals on the wells you did? Well we're -- that's one of the data points that we're looking at on whether or not the proximity of the zipper frac we did enhanced the production from these wells or if we happen to be just landed in a better geologic position.
That's something that we are going to monitor in these wells.
And certainly we're anxious to drill our next down-spaced wells to see if we have consistency in those results.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the Marcellus production rate I know you have 1.2 Bcf takeaway capacity at the end of the year.
What kind of production are you estimating as the exit rate for the year for the Marcellus? On the infrastructure at the end of the year we anticipate the takeaway capacity to be at the 1.5 Bcf per day level instead of the 1.2 Bcf.
And as far as the -- well we haven't yet on the exit rate and at this stage not prepared to.
But our guidance is going to -- we're very very comfortable with our guidance that we've given in between the total year the 35% to 50% production growth.
We just haven't given the -- pinpointed the exit rate at this stage.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final question.
One of your peers has talked about cost pressures coming down capital efficiency improving.
Do you see the similar impact just from service cost coming down as cash to exit is less or slow down? Yes we have.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify that? Well we are saying in our -- we have actually kind of expressed it earlier when we executed -- up in the Marcellus when we executed our pumping service contract.
We recognize at that point in time that the cost were certainly coming down.
And in the Eagle Ford we recognized the same thing that the pumping services and some of the other services were coming down.
Pumping services percentage-wise I think a little bit greater than maybe the 5% to 15% in various other services.
The next question is from Eli Kantor of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> On the last call you had mentioned that if gas prices remain at these levels that you'd introduce the Marcellus rig count to 3 from 5.
And from your comments this morning it sounds like you plan on maintaining the 5-rig program.
So I was just wondering why the reversal on thought process there.
No.
I'm sorry I didn't make myself clear.
What I had mentioned is we are going to continue our capital program as we budgeted and we have budgeted a reduction of the Marcellus rigs towards the middle part to latter part of the year by releasing a couple of rigs.
And we are still on that program.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So the current CapEx program assumes that you get down to 3 rigs by the end of the year? That's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of Marcellus EURs it looks like results at least the ones that are published are trending north of the 11 Bcf type curve.
Can you just talk about how you think about EURs internally and whether or not we should expect a revision and what the size and timing of such a revision might be? Well we have seen certainly some very very good wells out there.
And the EURs certainly are north in some cases the 11 Bcf.
It's dependent on the lateral length.
And when you -- we're drilling our wells up there and without cooperative or forced cooling we're bound and restricted at times to the total lateral length of the wells that we can achieve.
And with the lateral length being either extended or reduced it takes spacing between 200 and say 225-foot between each stage how many effective stages we can pump.
So our 11 Bcf well is indicative of what we look at as a 15- to 16-stage type well.
In the cases where we are able to get extended laterals and more stages I think we're seeing greater EURs.
And certainly in the less stage areas where we're restricted because of the holdout on a mineral owner then there is slightly less.
And then you will always have areas that if you find just one of those good areas that you can really get some significant wells.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Brown Dense can you talk about your activity there for the initial completion? Where within the horizon you could place a lateral? What are your drilling plans for the balance of the year? And are you guys still within the plan? Right now as far as our drilling activity we completed the well.
And kind of footnote out there this was our initial well in the area.
It's certainly not many data points to go by and our initial well design as we go into each area without a lot of data.
We purposely try to manage our exploratory dollars and we did that in this particular well where we only drilled down about a 3 000-foot lateral.
We anticipated only about 10 stages which we -- that's what we completed at over a couple of hundred barrels per day completion on the very first test.
That's not too bad particularly if you extrapolate out with the added efficiencies in the future and more frac stages.
We landed our well kind of in the middle of this section of the Brown Dense and we didn't have any significant drilling problems.
Right now with the strip price of natural gas we do not anticipate going out there and drilling additional wells.
We'll continue to gather the data points with the other activity that's being conducted out there.
And we're looking at and talking to folks about the acres out there but we're not actively out there with a bunch of brokers leasing.
The next question comes from Pearce Hammond on Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dan when will that Marmaton rig move down to the Eagle Ford? Is that still on track later this year? Well we have planned a lot of that -- not a lot of that we plan on moving that rig down because there is -- some of our acreage is subject to the hunting season restrictions.
And with the last well we drilled and some of the sites that we're doing up there we elected to continue to drill a couple of more wells which we've done a couple of the wells that we announced.
They've been pretty good wells.
We're still looking at the science that we're applying up there.
And at this stage we have -- we've decided that it would be beneficial to our program to continue to plan ahead to continue to gather the data with the drilling information we're gathering and keep the rig up there at this time.
Certainly good efficiencies good returns with a 2 to 3 [ph] type million dollars wells and seeing some pretty good results.
So that's what we're going to continue right now.
We have not made a final decision whether or not we're going to continue drilling up there all year or drill -- move the rig down into the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then moving to the Utica acreage just a general overview.
How do you feel about acreage like as far as the infrastructure is concerned? You're going to start your first well you said this summer kind of plans beyond that for the rest of the year.
We haven't made any forward-looking plan up there for the remainder of the year.
We are certainly excited of the data points that we have up there about where our position lies in regard to the volatile oil window.
And we think we are in a good section.
And the thickness we think is going to be fairly robust also.
So we're looking forward to the test range.
We'll operate the well with 50% and capital of 50% this summer.
I'm sure we'll take the data.
We'll communicate the exchanged thoughts on what we do moving forward and make that decision but we haven't rolled out anything further on a development plan at this stage.
The infrastructure is still going to need to come in and improve in the area.
I'll let Jeff make a brief comment on that.
Okay.
Where this acreage lies is quite a bit of conventional gas oil activity and so there is numerous pipeline.
However they are probably not modestly sized.
But there are some -- there is some activity of up there that -- where our infrastructure has already began.
So we hope to kind of piggyback on that.
And as we get closer we'll probably give you more details.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally Dan just general thoughts overall in the Marcellus.
Are you seeing a large drilled and uncompleted wells just kind of across the industry? And if so is that due to limits on takeaway capacity or service constraints or just low prices? I think there is certainly wells that are drilled and completed shut in and infrastructure buildout with the programs that are on the board is ongoing up there and I'm sure that has a bearing on it.
But it's also worthy of note that there has been a substantial number of rigs drilled [ph] in the Marcellus are being laid down.
So as far as ongoing buildup of wells out there I don't have the authority to get the count from all the operators but I don't look at that as being a significant build of Marcellus.
Well I think there are quite a few peers but I don't think there's just ongoing build of wells out there.
Your next question comes from Michael Hall of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a couple of quick ones for me.
In the Marmaton apologies if you already laid it out but what -- any sort of revised outlook on the location and inventory there on the acreage block at this point? Well at this stage we have 69 000 net acres up there.
What we're trying to do is identify the fracture stages out there.
And I think one of our last fragmentation tests is 61 000 net acres.
We've ramped that up.
But I don't know we think we have anywhere from 200 to 300 400 depending on the spacing.
It's a large range right now because we continue to gather data.
Sorry Mike I can't be any more specific in that at this time.
Research Division</strong> It's okay.
So I guess you need to some natural fracturing so it's a function of kind of just getting the acreage.
Do you have -- remind me do you have seismic shot on it? Or is that how you're identifying the fractures or...
No.
Well we have -- we don't have 3D shot.
We have -- we've gathered that 2D lines up there that are available and we've got some reprocessing and things on the 2D lines.
And there is certainly a lot of vertical well data points that we're trying to integrate into our reprocess side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then the other one for me just more big picture.
Dan you made a comment in the release that given the environment looking to be opportunistic should we read into that at all? I mean have you changed in terms of your general approach to looking at the market obviously wanting to maintain the optionality around the Marcellus the core Marcellus asset? But are you looking to get more aggressive in some of these more emerging plays with either leasing other sorts of acquisitions? Should I read into that comment at all? Or am I getting ahead of myself? Well I think every company on the market is trying to find the next deal that will slot in above the returns that you're allocating -- the areas that you're allocating capital to and comparing the type of returns you get.
And in our areas that we -- that all is aware of we continue to try to capture the acreage in the Marcellus.
And we have multi-year drilling programs and locations out in front of us in each of the areas that we're currently active and allocating capital: Marcellus the Eagle Ford and the Marmaton.
We also -- now with 50 000 net acres in the Utica area that's going to be a substantial -- with success is going to be a substantial area of future activity for us that we think would slot in assuming we're in the liquids window there of a good return-type potential.
And we're also drilling a well in an area we had talked about.
So we continue to try to find those opportunities to add capital efficiency to our program.
Unfortunately even though the Marcellus is a wonderful gas play and probably one of the best gas plays in the U.S.
with the gas strip where it is it's just -- it's difficult.
We still make a return up there.
It's not yielding the return we would expect forever.
We think we will show significant enhancements to the returns in the future.
We think those returns will be helped by commodity price down the road and everybody is trying to guess when that happens.
We think we'll also see significant uptick in margin improvement at any commodity price once we get to pure pad development drilling from our operation up there.
But as far as the read-through in what we're trying to do we continue to try to enhance our capital efficiency.
And frankly if we had all our acreage secured in the Marcellus right now and held I think we would allocate a significantly a greater portion to the liquids opportunities we have.
And again we have many many many years of liquids drilling in front of us and we continue to grow in liquids we've been able to demonstrate with 138% growth just most recently.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful and certainly very noteworthy in the increased inventory in the oil projects.
I mean along those lines as you think about the second half is there any thinking of potential around maybe bumping the capital spend in these areas as you start to have more and more in the way of kind of liquids- and oil-rich inventory to set up for a stronger liquids ramp in 2013? Or is it still too early to be thinking about it? Well no.
It's necessarily not too early to think about that.
We are already starting to kind of look at the horizon in anticipation of presenting our '13 budget to our board in October.
And I would venture to say that we will have a larger component of liquids drilling in the '13 budget.
But again I'm not going to deemphasize the window we're in right now and it is a finite window we're in.
We continue to allocate capital to capture our Marcellus acreage and that does have a squeeze on us a little bit right now.
But at the end of the day and looking at the amount of reserves that we are able to stack on our books through our Marcellus drilling and the growth both in production and in just pure reserves on the books in a couple of years I think shareholders are going to recognize that the drilling that we implemented today is going to have a significant advantage if we have a little bit more balance between supply-demand phenomenon and the gas price.
The next question comes from Joe Allman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Dan how much of the Susquehanna County do you think you've de-risked at this point? Well I think we have de-risked probably 70-plus percent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you written any part of Susquehanna County off based on any new information? None.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the longer lateral wells maybe you said this earlier and I'm sorry if I didn't catch it but what's the cost of those longer lateral wells? We're in the upper $6 million range to low $7 million if we get to 20 stages.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in the Marmaton that one well that you -- was within your lease I know you previously disclosed that in your presentation what made that well so much better than the other wells? Well when you're going to -- when you find the natural fractured areas and again that's part of our effort up there I think we can see these type of wells.
And that is our play concept really when we went up there in the first place.
Our challenge we knew was going to be trying to identify the areas that had the significant fractures.
And as we continue to drill and gather data and try to do as much science as we can in that regard where we find good fractures and we find good efficient completions we think we can repeat these type of wells.
That is the poster child right now of the wells we drilled up there but certainly we have an expectation that it's not going to be the last.
Research Division</strong> And then just in the Marmaton in general do you think just getting those 700-barrel a day equivalent wells is that fairly repeatable? Or is the challenge here a little bit more tricky than in say Susquehanna County and others? Well it's certainly going to be a little bit more challenging in Susquehanna.
I think we have illustrated in Susquehanna that we have an area that has shown very consistent results.
And the delta between a absolute great great well to a well that is not as great is much much narrower than any other play that frankly that I can think about.
I don't care where you are Bakken or Barnett or Permian area.
But you have all kinds of deltas between good wells and not-as-good wells.
But I do think that the 700-barrel type of well is certainly a well that we do anticipate we're going to be able to drill a lot more of.
But certainly we're not going to be able to predict those today with the database we have as effectively or with as much confidence as we would if we had another 50 wells drilled out there.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just lastly on the Brown Dense did you learn anything about a better place to lay the lateral or anything you would do different assuming you'll drill another well I know you said you're not going to drill one this year but when you do drill your next well? I'll let Matt Reid to kind of answer that.
Yes.
We're still in the early stages around that Joe.
We're still looking at the data.
We're looking at some of the pressure data and some of the other information we're gaining from the wells.
We think that there's some highly core center wells within the Brown Dense and we're trying to land our laterals in them.
I think half our [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you have data on the permeability before you drill this first well or...
We did have some data on the Brown Dense permeability some processes as well.
There have been some additional straight wells drilled in there.
And we did look at that data and some [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> What was the frac pump rate that you've put on this one? The rate we were pumping at 80 barrels per minute about 8 000 PSI.
The next question comes from Joe Stewart of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Dan the 7-mile step-out wells does that put you in -- is that Harford Township? No.
I think it's in Lennoxville.
Research Division</strong> In Lennoxville.
Okay.
All right.
And kind of following up on Joe's question about the de-risked acreage in Susquehanna County.
When you say de-risk does that kind of imply that you think approximately 70% of your acreage will produce results basically in line with your 2011 type curve assuming the same number of frac stages? Well we have -- certainly in the central portion where we drilled the majority of our well and we started our infrastructure we feel very comfortable with the consistency yield that we're getting from these wells.
And now as we move to the east with the step-out and the results from these wells we feel good about that.
We drilled and seen the information to the west.
Even though we haven't drilled a lot of wells to the west we feel very very comfortable about that.
On the northern fringe of our acreage where we've identified the -- where we're flowing into the Laser line those particular wells as they get a little bit shallower slightly better we think are not going to be quite the 11 Bcf type wells that we see in the majority of the rest of our acreage.
And we've recognized that as they maybe being 10% of that number.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Great.
And then on the well cost question you mentioned the longer lateral well cost.
Keeping things kind of -- or making apples-to-apples comparison with 2011 would a 2011 well cost be about $6 million in 2012 though? That's a good number to use.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And then finally on the Marmaton given you had a little bit more production history on your belt now any update to your thinking on potential EURs there? Yes.
We think it's 150 175 200 225 maybe on the better wells that kind of the range a little bit wider range than we normally have because we've seen wider results.
The next question comes from Ray Deacon of Brean Murray.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about your investment in this Constitution Pipeline and if that would be incremental to your current takeaway or not.
Yes.
Good question Ray.
I'm going to let Jeff Hutton answer that.
Okay.
Yes.
Constitution is after the hunting season and it was established to be a 30-inch pipeline and a 121-mile fleet [ph].
Initial cost estimates are I think Williams' press release just yesterday around $750 million range.
Our participation is at 25% as an owner and so sometime between now and 2015 our investment will be about 25% of that.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
And with the -- so would you just add the 1.2 -- I mean 1.5 Bcf a day to that 600 million a day you gave there? Is that kind of the right way to look at it? Or...
Well 2 ways to look at it.
One is that it’s a 30-inch pipe which is now designed for 650 000 a day of capacity in which Cabot has 500 000 a day of broad [ph] space on the pipeline.
Down the road if it's -- if it merits expansion then certainly the 30-inch pipe can be expanded to an excess of 1 Bcf a day of capacity.
But right now we're comfortable with the 500 million a day add and yes it is in addition to the current infrastructure plan on takeaway as a 1.5 Bcf.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
Great.
And I guess -- and maybe just to clarify one of the points you made in terms of resource per location kind of across the acreage.
So I guess if you were to look at it per stage just the 11 Bcf wells so it's about 3/4 of a Bcf per frac stage and maybe to the north if it's 10% less than that.
Is that -- based on what you know now is that fair? Or do you want to see improvement in that? Well I think as far as a number in there I would say it's 7 to 8 Bcf -- I mean 700 000 to 1 million on production from the wells EUR 3/4 that's probably in the ballpark.
Also on the north end of the acreage on the -- again the wells that we drilled up there we think it's probably going to be more on the 5 and 7 Bcf type wells up there.
Carret &amp; Co.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
Got it.
So that's in 15-stage frac type wells? Yes correct yes.
Our next question comes from Marshall Carver of Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I did have a couple of final questions though.
On the Marcellus the wells that are at the Upper and Lower Marcellus test as well as the ones that you're drilling the down-spacing so those 500 feet from the nearest current producers.
How close are those -- is the upper well and the lower well from each other? Okay.
Marshall the 2 wells that have gained over 10 Bcf they're slightly less than 2 000 feet completed in the Marcellus the Lower Marcellus.
We landed the one well right in between those 2 wells in the lower Marcellus and then we landed the upper Marcellus well at about 500 foot -- or in between say the new well we drilled in one of the wells that has cleaned significant production.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I got you.
That makes sense.
And then on the Brown Dense you said you're not actively leasing.
Is that because there's not much available near you ?or is that a sign you're not very encouraged about what you're seeing so far? Well there had been a significant land play come through contemporaneous when we were kind of out there.
And we picked up a position and felt like when we go into a play we pick up acreage and hopefully we can get in there and make some determination earlier before there is a significant acreage play being made first-mover type contract.
But in this case there was already a significant acreage play ongoing when we moved up there also.
So it just limited and restricted the amount of acreage that we could block up in the area and our preference is to block up -- so it reduced our additional leasing capacity.
The play is still very very young on results.
It's got a large large geographic footprint and it's still very very young with complex -- complexities that you see in every play.
And once that data is gathered we're still making the play as merit.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Thanks Shea.
I appreciate again everybody's interest in Cabot.
Certainly as I mentioned we're going through this soft gas price anybody's crystal ball can look into the future and I think has a different date on when we might see additional support from the supply-demand equation.
I think it's apparent that the industry is not going to allocate capital to dry gas with the strip that we see.
So I think brighter days are ahead.
But even though we are in this low gas price and not certainly generating the cash flows we'd all like to see we are going to be putting significant reserves on our [indiscernible].
We'll have the opportunity to grow those reserves still with a return even at strip prices.
So I think we are in a unique position as being looked at as a dry gas player but at the same time you are going to continue to see Cabot increase its liquids production.
With its every spare dollar we have we're going to put into the ground where we think we can find oil.
So again appreciate the interest and look forward to the next quarter.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
I appreciate everybody joining us this morning for this second quarter conference call.
With me today is Scott Schroeder; Jeff Hutton our VP of Marketing; Steve Lindeman our VP of Engineering and Technology; Matt Reid handles our South Region; and Todd Liebl VP of Land and Business Development.
Before I start as usual the boilerplate standard language that we have is forward-looking statements included in the press release do apply to my comments today.
Excuse me.
At this time we have many things to cover and I'm going to expand on the press releases that were issued last night.
I'll briefly cover the financials in the second quarter.
We'll update the '12 guidance including a capital discussion as well as a preliminary review of our 2013 plan and the recent successes that we had with drill bit and I'll follow that with a discussion of our operations.
Before I go into the details on these topics I'd like to start with just a brief list of the highlights that we've seen in this last quarter.
Cabot grew production 40% over the comparable quarter of last year including 37% growth in natural gas and a 96% growth in liquids.
Second quarter production was up 5% quarter-over-quarter and this is even after the impact of unscheduled maintenance and the delays we've talked about as attached to our Marcellus gathering lines.
We have brought online a 2-well pad that together the wells have produced 2 Bcf in 39 days and they are still producing right at 59 60 million cubic foot a day.
The initial down space test in our Buckhorn area in the Eagle Ford and the zipper fracs which were the first we'd tried out there have proven to be successful.
Along with our down space initiatives in the Marcellus.
Also the cash proceeds and the increase in capital the cash proceeds from our JV fully fund drilling in 2 new plays the Purcell and the Utica.
And we have only very minimal production forecasts due to the nature of these 2 areas.
We've also had acreage acquisition in several new areas.
All of this is going to enhance the 2013 production growth expectations.
Now let me roll into the financial results.
The company reported clean earnings of approximately $10 million or $0.05 per share.
That was driven by our significant production increases that more than offset weaker natural gas prices.
Cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow for the second quarter were $159 million and $142 million respectively.
The Marcellus continues to be the driving force behind our production growth while the Eagle Ford and Marmaton continue to add significant liquids production to our profile as illustrated by our 96% increase.
When you adjust for the 2.8 Bcf of production from the second quarter of 2011 that was associated with last year's Rocky Mountain sale our equivalent production growth for the quarter was 49% greater than last year's second quarter.
Guidance we continue to reaffirm our equivalent production growth for 2012 35% to 50% and liquids production growth of 55% to 65%.
We updated the full year cost guidance by decreasing DD&amp;A and taxes other than income on a per share per unit basis to reflect our updated views for the remainder of the year.
We also provided third quarter guidance for absolute G&amp;A and exploration expenses.
In the second quarter G&amp;A increased primarily due to a higher pension expense as a result of the termination of our qualified pension plan that was completed in the second quarter of 2012 additionally which was not normalized and included in the second quarter G&amp;A figure are an assessment from the Office of Natural Resources Revenue for certain matters in the Rocky Mountains which we are currently disputing and was also increased in legal fees associated with preparation for the Fiorentino lawsuit in PA.
However in regard to that case Cabot has reached verbal settlement agreement with 32 out of 36 households.
Negotiations will continue with the remaining households.
The aggregate value of the settlements are not a material item with respect to Cabot's financial statements.
Resolution of this litigation will have a very positive impact on G&amp;A going forward due to the reduction in cost of defense.
The combination of these items had a $0.03 per share impact to the quarter.
Exploration expenses also increased during the quarter due to the expensing of our initial Brown Dense exploratory well in Arkansas.
Now let's move to some of the discussion on our 2012 plans as a result of the recent joint venture with Osaka.
And we're very pleased to have Osaka as a partner in our Purcell area.
We have restructured our operational plans for the remainder of 2012.
We plan to keep 4 rigs running in the Marcellus for the remainder of the year instead of dropping down to 3 rigs.
We also plan to run 2 rigs in the Purcell associated with the Osaka joint venture 2 rigs in the Marmaton due to the improved results that we have seen out there and 1 rig in the Eagle Ford for a total of 9 operated rigs company-wide by year end.
Plus we will have some other non-operated efforts for example in the Utica and Marmaton.
The additional drilling activity will primarily be funded through the upfront cash proceeds and future drilling carry from the JV.
At the same time our lease acquisition efforts have doubled from $45 million to $90 million in acquisitions of acreage in existing areas filling in some holes and new plays.
In a couple of new areas we have accumulated over 25 000 acres in each of a couple of areas.
All of these operational changes will have limited impact on 2012 production but will certainly enhance our production expectations for 2013.
In 2013 this a little bit early for us to put some numbers out there but we thought we would with the additional capital that we have placed in front of you that would affect our '13 plans.
We expect to grow production by minimum of 30% to 50% with a capital program between $900 million and $1 billion.
The planned program will again target being cash flow neutral at today's strip pricing.
Clearly these are wide parameters.
We'll try to refine these numbers as we approach next year.
We've had some questions in regard to hedging.
The company added 17 new hedges since our first quarter call in April of which 16 are related to 2013.
The company has 32 contracts for 2012 production excluding the 5 basis [ph] only hedges.
27 are for gas at $5.22 4 oil contracts at $99.30 and an additional contract at $105 -- $105.
Approximately 40% the midpoint of our production guidance for 2012 is currently hedged.
We also have now 23 contracts for our 2013 20 for gas which are collars and 3 swaps for oil.
We continue to monitor the natural gas market due to the recent strength to consider additional hedging.
You can find our hedging on our website.
Now let's move into the operations in the North region.
We continue to have outstanding results in the Marcellus and Susquehanna County.
Since the end of the first quarter we have brought on line 5 wells with IPs exceeding 20 million per day.
At the top of the list is a 2-well pad that has been on line only 39 days.
We got very few days in the second quarter.
But they've been on line for 39 days and has produced over 2 Bcf and is currently producing as I mentioned between 59 and 60 million cubic foot per day.
Also we have continued to collect data on our 500-foot spaced lateral initiative that we're using to determine optimal spacing out in the Marcellus.
If you recall we completed 2 500-foot laterally spaced wells located between 2 existing wells that had cumulatively produced 10 Bcf already.
The Upper Marcellus infill well IP-ed for 8 million cubic foot per day and the Lower Marcellus infill well IP-ed for 16 million cubic foot per day.
Both wells production was constrained slightly and both wells were completed with 15-stage fracs.
The result of these wells are exceeding our expected EURs based on the early production data and our expected EURs were the 7.5 Bcf and 11 Bcf respectively.
Also last quarter we announced a 5-well pad that was a 7-mile step-out to the east from any previous production.
These wells continue to perform very well and equally as good as the central portion of our acreage.
The 5-well pad has produced over 6.5 Bs in about 3.5 months and is producing over 55 million cubic foot per day at this time.
Additionally we have flow tested 2 wells at 2 different sites located approximately 4 miles to the northeast and a similar distance to the east northeast from the Zick pad site.
That's the 5-well pad site I just mentioned.
These wells tested at similar rates as the Zick pad wells.
We are currently waiting on gathering lines to be hooked up to these new wells that we just tested.
Again all these wells continue to de-risk our acreage in Susquehanna County.
We're very comfortable with our acreage position.
In addition we have just completed shooting a 50-square-mile 3D seismic survey on the eastern portion of our acreage with the addition of this data which will be processed by the fourth quarter we have 3D seismic coverage over approximately 95% of our acreage in Susquehanna County.
On the operations side we are currently operating 5 drilling rigs in the Marcellus and we plan to go down to 4 rigs in August.
Through the first half of this year we have completed 520 stages and we currently have 368 stages that have been completed and waiting to turn in line or they're currently cleaning up or we're currently completing.
And additionally we have 374 stages drilled and waiting to be completed.
Regard to the infrastructure comments we continue to make progress despite minor regulatory and governmental slowdowns on pipeline permits.
Specifically the backlog on obtaining pipeline permits has been the cause of the delays that we've talked about and has certainly affected our second quarter production.
I've read this morning that Corbett has made some comments in regard to setting up some permit approval expectations for the PADEP.
We're gaining ground in regard to all of these and do not expect the slow down to affect our 2012 guidance or our maximum takeaway capacity goal of approximately 1.5 Bcf per day by the end of the year.
We have with the help of Williams accelerated our permit applications for 2013 and our 2014 program and at this time do not expect any delays.
A brief comment on the Constitution Pipeline just a note that the joint venture Constitution Pipeline with Transco where we have a 25% interest the initial pre-filing at FERC was completed as well as all stakeholder notifications.
We are currently in the community outreach phase with everything going as planned and continues on schedule for a March 2015 startup.
Another comment on pricing.
We continue to receive comments on the pricing in the northeast and the update regarding pricing is that -- and everybody is aware that the weak commodity prices our entire industry has seen and experienced lately has certainly -- we've seen it up in the Marcellus.
All producers have experienced some discounting to the historic Appalachia price index.
However with the flexibility of our Springville line to Transco and the Laser system to Millenium our discount to traditional Appalachia pricing is only around $0.03 to $0.05.
We expect the trend to continue in this range.
However again due to all the questions we get regarding our Marcellus pricing in general we want to reiterate again that daily spot pricing which can drop significantly below daily NYMEX pricing during the month is not applicable to Cabot.
And as for the overall macro gas outlook we're certainly encouraged and enthusiastic that the commodities market has recently turned and improved and has some strong fundamentals behind it with some increased demand and the storage numbers certainly heading in the right direction.
A brief comment on the Utica.
The company's Utica test with Range Resources Cabot and Range are 50-50 in this effort.
It's drilling ahead in the Northwest Pennsylvania.
The future releases that we would make we will be following the operator's lead.
A brief comment also in regard to water extractions up there.
There has been some drought conditions in Pennsylvania and I just wanted to fill everybody in on where Cabot is in this particular effort.
By the end of July we have and do anticipate having to have completed 60% of our planned fracking program.
With the possibility of drought conditions up there Cabot has firm ability to complete at least 2/3 of the remaining planned completions for 2012 with the existing capacity and that's in the event that drought conditions would continue unabated.
However we are securing access to additional sites as we speak which will more than make up for our water requirements.
Lastly as a backup Cabot engineering is adding additional storage capacity at its major withdrawal sites.
Again we did not expect to have any problems with fracking.
Moving to the South region and I'll start off with the comments in the Eagle Ford.
We have drilled 33 wells with 2 wells currently drilling in our Eagle Ford play.
The average IP has continued to increase.
In regard to the 400-foot down spacing project we are drilling our second set of wells designed to test the down space concept again at about 400-foot apart.
These wells will also utilize the zipper frac that we did on our first couple of wells.
We then plan to zipper frac our new down space test in early August.
During the second quarter our oil pipeline that connects the majority of our Eagle Ford oil wells was connected -- it was connected and put into service.
This allows our crude to be delivered to a central storage facility and dramatically reduce the truck hauling fees plus reduce our truck traffic.
During July we connected our storage facilities to an existing crude pipeline that will further reduce our trucking costs plus add price upside by marketing our production at the Gulf Coast refineries in lieu of at the least.
In the Purcell our first well is drilling with the second well scheduled to spud sometime in late August.
Plans are to drill at least 5 Purcell wells in 2012.
With success that number would triple in 2013.
Moving up to the Marmaton in the Panhandle of Oklahoma and Texas last night's press release highlighted the Marmaton continues to produce excellent results.
The program has grown to about 20 operated wells planned in '12 plus participation with a non-operator in several more wells -- as a non-operator in several more wells.
Our team is doing an excellent job picking their locations and drilling these wells which is why a portion of the proceeds from our recent joint venture are being allocated to this area.
Additionally we wanted to move into the southern area of our acreage the Panhandle of Texas to look at and evaluate that acreage.
Our average IP for the last 5 operated wells is over 1 100 barrels of oil plus associated gas with our drilling costs between $2.9 million and $3.4 million.
What this quarter highlights is our drilling activity.
Besides remaining highly economic in this price environment it continues to be very robust.
When the infrastructure permits up in the Marcellus catches up with our productive capacity up there we will certainly see our volumes to expand and we have already seen that as we have brought on additional wells in July.
Additionally once again extracted dollars from our assets in a value creating way that opens many doors.
We're going to keep the one well in the Marcellus.
We've added a well in the Marmaton and certainly we had new Utica and new Purcell drilling.
This is a continued consistent application of what we've done in the past as part of our strategy.
With that Emily I'll be more than happy to answer any of the questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Pearce Hammond of Simmons.
Research Division</strong> I know it's early and I appreciate the look at the '13 guidance but was curious for that '13 capital guidance.
What is the rig forecast by region behind that guidance? We're going to be in 5 or 6 rigs in the Marmaton and we're going to -- I mean -- excuse me in the Marcellus.
And we're going to have a couple of rigs in the Eagle Ford and we'll probably have 3 rigs in the Purcell and we'll have the 2 rigs in the Marmaton.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then in the new guidance slide you state it's been...
Yes let me just also mention there might be 1 or 2 more wells drilled in areas that we'll talk about once we get better definition of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in the new guidance slide you state that the new 2012 CapEx guidance is $775 million to $825 million and that's net of proceeds from asset sales in the Purcell JV.
What is the CapEx if you include the proceeds from the Purcell JV and any asset sales? So we just add the $125 million from the first Purcell JV on top of that? Yes Pierce that's exactly right.
So it'd be $900 million to $950 million.
Our next question comes Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First looking at the '13 guidance.
Can you -- is there any contribution -- or how much contribution have you baked in from Utica and Purcell in those numbers? In the '13 guidance? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
We're not breaking out the '13 guidance.
We have a significant risk profile attached.
In fact we had 0 production contributing from the Utica in our forecast for '12.
And we have a very minimal amount forecast right now because of its exploratory nature in the Purcell.
So until we see the -- with the well results drilling results we're not forecasting that production.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned the drought conditions in Pennsylvania and some of the various conditions don't improve.
Is any of that also baked into the '13 guidance? Or are you assuming the conditions do improve? Well the -- I can't predict the weather but I can say currently there is even-- since they had the restrictions the restrictions have been lifted in our withdrawal sites.
And we will start sometime today withdrawing water again up there as a normal course of business.
So you're going to have these -- you're going to have the periods where you have some flood restrictions.
It's dependent upon certainly rain but we also are enhancing our storage capacity to allow us to frac through any extended drought periods.
So to answer your question more succinctly we have not forecast in our '13 guidance any risk profile attached to obtaining water for fracking.
So we're comfortable with what we're building out in form of frac tanks in the form of additional take points and in the form of accumulation areas to keep our frac crews busy.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And you mentioned the additional storage.
Can you tell us what your current capacity is and how much you are adding? Our current capacity will allow us to frac at least 2 stages per day and that is just as what we hold on the ground right now.
That does not include where we are currently securing additional sites for take point and it does not include any type of impoundments.
So I would say we have plus or minus 500 frac stages -- frac tanks excuse me frac tanks available for fracking.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Plus or minus 500 available today and can you say how many you're adding? Well once we have -- it's not going to be where we're adding the frac tanks it's going to be where we're adding additional capacity to existing sites and a couple of additional new sites for water withdrawal and the engineering of impoundment.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one more question related to that.
I think you only had 2 or 3 locations that was impacted by the restrictions.
How many withdrawal locations do you have in Susquehanna? We have -- I'll let Steve Lindeman answer that.
Yes there were 2 that were impacted.
We have 5 total.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk to what you're seeing or expecting in terms of IP per stage from your Marcellus wells now versus what's historically been I think about 1 million cubic feet a day per stage I believe? And to what degree that your wells in the Marcellus that are currently online are being restrained if at all because of midstream constraint versus what you would want them to optimally produce? Well we have for example the 2 wells that we've just announced on a per stage basis these couple of new wells-- they're obviously very good wells and they are above our average IP.
We continue to see a fairly consistent level of production on a per stage basis.
We are trying to extend our laterals and we're trying to add additional stages but we do continuously or negated from as longer laterals as we'd like to drill out there on a consistent basis by virtue of the Pennsylvania not having any pooling provisions available to us.
So in regard to our EURs and what we anticipate in the future we'll look at that at year-end and make that kind of a determination once we get to the end to look at what the average stages of our 2012 program has been.
Research Division</strong> And are your existing wells that are producing in the Marcellus are they producing at the levels that you would optimally want them to produce or are they being restrained by midstream? No.
We have seen little restraints because some of the production we have or capacity -- production capacity we have in some areas is being affected by the unscheduled maintenance that we've seen and some downtime we've seen on various compressions.
So that does affect our production profile.
If you look at and you cobble together the unexpected downtime and some of the issues we've seen out there which we are -- we along with Williams continue to work through it has affected probably year-to-date somewhere north of 5 Bcf of production.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And that's essentially incremental production from here that might not be included in the 368 stages that are behind pipe or completing? Yes we're risking some of that production that's behind pipe or waiting on pipeline when it comes on and we also put an element of risk in on the wells we drill with the anticipated number of stages that we have forecast.
And we do that in case we lose a plug in the hole.
We have mechanical issues periodically out there that we can't get to the end of the say the toe of the well back to the toe of the well.
And instead of wasting the time right now we'll bring on a well and then we'll clean out at a later day once production gets worked down.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And lastly just going back to the water constraints topic.
In some downside scenario where you would face greater constraints do the planned infrastructure additions that you see coming give you the ability to bring on the 368 stages that have already been completed or are completing? And I guess on the earlier question just to make sure we understood what does pure water storage give you in terms of how many incremental wells or stages you could frac overall? Well-- and I'll let Steve answer the latter part of that.
But in regard to the 374 stages that we have waiting on completion we feel very comfortable that we're going to be able to get all those stages fracked.
Right.
And just in terms of our storage what we're looking to do is to double our storage capacity at the withdrawal sites.
So we'll have a significant amount of surplus of fluid available to us.
Our next question comes from Jack Aydin of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> What is your production today from Marcellus? Let's see.
I think it is -- it varies everyday but it's plus or minus 650.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question the lateral on those 2 wells the 8 million IP and the 16 million what was the lateral on those wells in each? They were both 15-stage frac wells.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how -- what was the cost running on those wells? The cost was right at $6 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now of the -- you had about 368 stages completed waiting and about 374 to be drilled completed.
How many of those do you think you might do this year? We think we'll do all of the 300 and -- well we'll turn in line all of the 368 stages and we will frac all of the 374 stages.
All those are part of our expected stages that we'll turn in line and bar [ph] '12 we're estimating that we would be plus or minus 1 100 stages total.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now with your takeaway capacity or takeaway of that coming about 1.5 Bs by year end some operators are reducing activities in the Marcellus.
Do you think you will have some access to additional takeaway capacity this year and next year because of other operator's decision to cut -- to reduce activities in the play? Well we're going to still see -- I'm going to turn that over to Jeff in a second.
But we're going to still see as we continue to build the infrastructure out we're going to still see areas that we are infrastructure-constrained just by nature of where the drilling and completing is going to be.
We'll be able to bring some on but we might not be able to bring them on at full volumes.
And I'll let Jeff make a comment also.
Jack you're exactly right to a certain degree that the reduction in activity is going to open up some capacity on the pipelines.
But I think the bigger factor that we're experiencing right now is with Cabot taking more gas additional gas down to Transco and companies like Talisman moving a lot of their production off the Tennessee line up to Empire [ph] and you've got some other producers Range and there's probably 6 or 7 other producers that are moving gas in different directions because of recent pipeline completions and enter service this fall.
That's what really relieving the pressure and the capacity constraints on Tennessee 300 line right now.
Research Division</strong> Dan one more question and you might not answer it.
But when are you going to talk about the new venture if you add it in a couple of plays your 25 000 acres or so and you're spending money.
When we might know which -- where you are being active? Well Jack I'd be disappointed if you didn't ask a question that I couldn't answer.
We have -- one of the areas I think we will have data on this year that we will probably discuss and another area maybe both those areas we would discuss but it's not a guarantee.
Research Division</strong> Is it gassy oily play? Yes.
Research Division</strong> That does it okay.
Now final questions.
Do you do a mid-year reserve report or you don't? No we do not do a mid-year reserve report.
Steve Lindeman is one who shepherds that and he will start working on that til probably November October time period to be prepared for year-end numbers.
Research Division</strong> Just based on the result of those wells the EURs and everything I mean it looks like 7.5 11.
Could you guess how high we could go in the EUR by year end? Well again our data based on the Lower Marcellus is certainly adequate and we're comfortable with the numbers that we have even all the way down to -- like Brian's question on the IP and booking per stage.
But in regard to the Upper Marcellus our data set is limited in the Upper Marcellus and we'll continue to be cautious on our bookings in the Upper Marcellus until we see further data but the data that we have seen we're very comfortable with.
Next question comes from Michael Hall of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to I guess dive into the 2012 CapEx increment with a little more granularity.
On that increase can you kind of outline what the specific drivers of it were.
It seems like some of it's clearly leasing but just wondering if you could walk through some of the moving pieces there? Well on the 2 new wells that we're adding in the Purcell JV we're adding also a rig in the Marmaton and that is a rig that we placed into the -- in the Panhandle of Texas that we're currently drilling.
We have the Utica well that we're drilling with Range and Range is also permitting a second well up there in the Utica which we've included in our numbers.
And we have a -- with the success up in the Marmaton our operator where we're not operator they continue to have a fairly robust program up there.
Those are the primary areas that we're allocating the additional capital.
And we're keeping the 1 rig in the Marcellus that either way that was not going to affect our production.
It was just going to be reducing our cash if we went down to 3 rigs but we're going to keep a rig running from August to the end of the year that we had originally had planned on setting on the sidelines til January.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then I guess on the outlook for 2013 maybe could you just provide a little bit of a road map around the infrastructure and then given -- like you said we continue to have kind of pockets of tightness.
And how should we think about that for '13 relative to '12? Are the majority of those expected to be let's say debottlenecked by mid-year? Just some additional color there? Okay yes now Jeff lives and and breathes this 24/7 so I'll let him answer that.
Michael obviously this is a process and it doesn't stop at quarters and year ends.
And we have permitted pipes out through '14 and '15 to try to design an infrastructure system out there that not only is safe and dependable but also gives us flexibility and also increases our capacities to all the pipelines.
So it is a work in progress.
We do have some major compressor stations going to be completed early in the mid-year of '13.
That's going to help us out quite a bit.
Again adding additional units to make sure that we have some backups some spare capacity that's obviously the goal.
We also want to concentrate on lowering the fuel pressure throughout the system.
And so as we grow the infrastructure we will concentrate on trying to paint ideal conditions where wells have a better opportunity to produce at a 100% than they are at currently.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Will there be any sort of let's say lumpiness that you would highlight as we look at '13 on maybe a quarterly basis? No my expectation Michael as we've relayed to you that '13 we expect things to be -- to getting smoother in regard to what we can comfortably expect versus what we'll actually realize.
The permits for our '13 program have been -- and all our location discussions with Williams has gone very well.
Williams had submitted permits for the 2013 program and we're 95% complete with that permit application for our '13 program.
We'll have a little bit more spread and a little bit more capacity in not only existing areas but we'll have some -- also some additional areas that we'll be able to move our gas through the existing pipe.
So expectation is it's not going to be lumpy.
It would just be in the beginning of the year we might hedge our bet a little bit like we have been this year.
And the example would be -- a good example would be just the couple of wells that we brought on that were -- granted very very good wells.
But if we would have brought the 2 wells at a -- each cumed over 1 Bcf if we would have brought those on a month earlier as anticipated along with some of the other wells that we brought on in July it would've made a lot of difference in just what people look at as our second quarter numbers.
So like Jeff said it's not a quarter-to-quarter game with us right now.
It's just a fluid dynamic process that we are getting ahead of and we're at the tail end of coordinating the passing the baton from Cabot to Williams on getting all these gathering lines in sync with where we have drilling rigs.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That all makes sense.
Appreciate the color.
Just a couple more as you look to the end of '12 would you care to put any sort of exit rate assumption out there and then kind of what you feel like the backlog in terms of uncompleted and are waiting on something let's say looks like as you head into '13 in the Marcellus? We're still going to stick with our -- just our pretty wide range guidance right now on the exit rates.
Certainly as you can see with the number of stages that we had already completed waiting to be turned in line and the activity that we have ongoing it's fairly safe to say that we're going to have a robust exit volume but we're not prepared to lay it out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of backlog I mean relative to the current backlog waiting on pipeline and/or completion do you think it will be pretty similar as you head into '13 or do you expect to work that down materially? Well I would expect with us keeping that.
As we mentioned before we were going to get down to 3 rigs and going into January we were still going to have a backlog of stages that rolled into '13.
Now keeping that rig our backlog is going to increase and I would think that backlog will probably be between 350 and 400 stages.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just 2 more housekeeping ones on my end.
Well costs let's say per area in the 2013 outlook would you care to provide those? Give us the rig counts.
Just curious what you're seeing on a well cost per area? Well we're in the $6 million plus or minus range in the Marcellus.
We're in the -- as we've mentioned the $2.4 million -- or $2.9 million to $3.4 million in the Marmaton.
We're in the $6.5 million to $7.2 million in the Eagle Ford.
The Purcell wells are going to be right now because we're going to have some evaluation process going on.
We're going to be $9.5 million to $10 million -- $10.2 million somewhere in that regard.
The Utica well -- somebody help me with the -- the Utica well is going to be $7.5 million to $8 million something of that nature.
And that has science attached to it also with us coring and things like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the 2 wells that have cumed over 1 Bcf each what would be the cume during the roughly 39-day or whatever call it a 30-day period on your 11 Bcf type well? Less than that.
I don't have that number.
Yes I'm sorry Michael.
I don't have that number handy with me right now.
Our next question comes from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question to clarify on the CapEx side.
I'm just working through the implied run rate into the back half of the year.
And to get to the midpoint of the guidance range I'm seeing something around $250 million to $275 million per quarter.
If I was to annualize that number into 2013 and then looking at the rig count allocation that you guys have it would put me at something probably above the $1 billion in CapEx guidance.
Can you just provide I guess any color around that and maybe what you may be spending incremental capital in the next 2 quarters that may not be there in 2013? Matt this is Scott Schroeder.
One of the things that Dan highlighted as part of the capital increase is a doubling of the lease ac.
And the lease ac run rate for '12 is higher than the run rate has been.
So that would contribute part of it.
Again what it's all going to boil down to for '13 is what we think the underlying commodity prices are for both commodities.
We've given you a kind of a wide production range but if you kind of look at the midpoint of that what's your cash flow? We're going to target the cash flow.
And if it ends up -- cash flow ends up being a little above $1 billion we'll probably be a little above $1 billion if it's below we'll be below.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just on that leasing side is there a rough number you guys can provide us on the leasing for the full year? For '13 I would say it's probably back to the $50 million or less range for next year.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just I wanted to clarify on the July production number I think you said roughly 650 million a day is that a gross number? That's a gross Marcellus number.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how does that compare to June? That's probably about 30 million a day to 35 million to 40 million a day higher than the June average.
Actually than the second quarter average.
Second quarter average is right around 615 gross for Marcellus.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just the final question for me.
I just wanted to clarify on the production guidance for 2012.
You are baking in some risked volumes given the issues around the drought or you're not baking in anything at this point? No we're -- the risked volumes that we bake in -- one we have not included anything in the Utica.
Two we have very very little production attached to our Purcell right now and we feel fully comfortable that with the -- our plan in place and the securing of additional sites we feel fully comfortable about getting our production volumes with the -- not only what we've already done the wells we've already completed waiting on infrastructure but also the amount of capacity we have to frac between now and the end of the year.
Even if you had some drought conditions we feel fully comfortable about being able -- matching our guidance.
And we have not put -- added any risk profile to that because of those comments.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Let's see a couple of quick questions.
First on the Marmaton.
Those look like-- at least the one well you guys talking about is really encouraging and I'm curious what -- do you guys have a view on what drives the divergence between your wells that are really good and wells that are not as good? And do you think -- what are you doing to advance the ability to figure that out pre-drill? Well the biggest factor geologically is the extent of fracturing in and around the well bore.
And that is contributing to the differential and the delta.
We are doing some things out there for example we're going to be drilling our first operated stand up 640 which will have longer laterals and more stages and certainly we think the possibility of intersecting additional fractures but that's the overriding royalty why you have more delta in this particular area that you might in the other areas.
And I'll let Matt make a brief comment attached to what he's seeing out there also.
I think also with our longing programs that we have now we are better able to identify our fracture systems and also a real key to our completions now are pack replacements.
We identify fracture forms and are able to place our packers in more ideal position and better place our fracs.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> So you're just -- you're interpreting the open hole log on the whole horizontal section and deciding-- kind of just deciding where you're frac is going to be more closely spaced or something.
Yes that's part of it and also we've done some things to better isolate the individual stages between -- during the frac.
And also I think we've been able to identify some better areas where these individual fractures have formed and areas are.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then one follow-up question Dan thanks for addressing that pricing issue in the Marcellus head on.
But as far as what we should look to am I right in thinking that it's really the Dominion Basis Swap that we should be paying attention to for your -- for the pricing that you're going to realize up there? I'll let Jeff fill that.
No not necessarily.
Demand is kind of a weird situation.
The Dominion index and Columbia Gas Transmission index both very traditional Appalachian-type indexes.
When we first got started up there pretty much a lot of people traded off that Columbian index that's no longer very applicable and so a lot of people turn to Dominion.
But mostly people have turned to just plain old NYMEX-type pricing.
And so on the fiscal side we have too.
And so -- but when you take our existing term business and you look at the 3 different pipes that we're on all 3 pipes trade different indexes.
So what we've tried to do is just put them all in a bucket and kind of throw it out on a weighted-average basis.
We're pretty darn close to last day NYMEX.
Our next question comes from Joseph Stewart of Citi.
Research Division</strong> A follow-up question on the Marmaton there.
So you're mentioning that the results are largely driven by the naturally occurring fractures.
How many drilling locations have you currently identified there? I'm going to let Matt fill that and again that was part of the reason why we added the extra rig in there is to identify a larger swath of our acreage and so the assumptions that you roll into that if you had all of it available--  Matt I'll let you fill in.
If you look at these individual fracture forms and look at our positions on mid-quarter as Dan said we're down in Texas now and starting to look at a new area and also looking at some other areas as well.
But I would say the locations are going to vary from between 400 and 500 gross locations.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So are those locations which appear to have the naturally occurring fractures? Well as we say we're investigating and looking at new areas down in Texas and some other areas in Oklahoma.
But in the areas that we're in now yes they would have the natural occurring fractures that's correct.
And Joe just to comment on that we have a lot of -- again because of our leasing we have a lot of vertical wells and areas that have shown fractures in the past but we have not done extensive -- nobody's done extensive horizontal drilling in some these new areas to determine the full extent of the fracturing.
So that would be the risk profile you would assess against it.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then I apologize if I missed this but given the 1.5 Bs per day that you're expecting to have by year end and then also just kind of looking at your Q2 volumes if you held Q2 flat you'd basically be at the low end of your guidance for the year.
So should we maybe expect kind of an updated range or maybe even an increased range on the guidance by Q3? Or would you prefer to just kind of wait and maybe just hit the high end or beat it? Well we've had discussion about our guidance and the width of the guidance that we have 35% to 50% and we realize a fairly large truck can drive through that.
But we felt that right now staying consistent not have a whole lot of moving parts in our guidance and just to continue to work through the delays that we've seen in the gathering lines.
We thought that's prudent and if we are successful in topping out our guidance then that's great.
But we certainly feel very comfortable that we're going to be within guidance.
And our next question comes from Bob Brackett of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about what you learned from the Brown Dense well and what it cost you to learn that? The cost was the acreage cost of the 13 000-plus acres and the cost of the drilling which we wrote-off as our dry hole cost which was around $10 million.
And right now we're still again have learned that it's productive continued capital being spent in the area by different operators and making an effort to determine how to make it economic up there and compete with the other plays that companies have to allocate capital on.
So we're not -- again because we write-off the well we're not saying we're condemning the play.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And do you think the poor results I guess implied in the write-off-- are they the result of a completion or do you think it's the geology or some combination? Well I think it's just the early stage of going into a virgin area to drill well when you have decisions on where you're going to place the well in the zone and what type of fracs you're going to place on it how you're going to space those fracs and the well we drill exploratory again in nature.
We only had 10 stages applied to that.
And it's gathering information that's going on not only in the Brown Dense continuing gathering information in the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale.
We did the same thing as we gathered information in every other play the Eagle Ford we're doing that now in the Purcell.
We did that in the Marcellus and it's just a very early entry.
Some play some areas the key to success is very obvious and upfront.
In other plays the key to success takes a whole lot more study and evaluation and technology to get there.
Our next question comes from Robert Christensen of Buckingham Research Group.
On the ops report my one question relates to the Eagle Ford.
You say it's very early results in your down spacing program.
When will we be more down spacing and when will we start to establish that the down spacing is working or not working on a very broad area of your acreage? When will we know some of that? Yes that's a good question Robert.
And with -- obviously we all need to be cautious without a big sample pool.
But with that said we are -- we have drilled 2 additional wells that are spaced 400 feet apart.
And we have-- Matt's group has scheduled the frac to occur in the middle of August.
So we will -- will do that and get another data point but from the information we've seen on the 2 wells as we mentioned the 30-day average is greater.
In fact one of the wells had been on about 110 days and one of the wells is still producing at 400 or so barrels a day.
So that is pretty good data that says that-- a couple of things.
One that the spacing was not a big issue; and two that the zipper frac we think which was -- these were the first 2 wells we did the zipper frac we think it probably had a positive effect overall on the proximity of each frac that we did and the results that we're seeing.
But my point is I guess how many more down spacing tests will you run this year and next year? When will we start to be able to put a big circle around this and say it's broad broad in nature the success of down spacing as opposed to in a select area.
Well we can extrapolate a little bit now by the other wells we've drilled and the geology we've seen and consistency in the geology that we've seen in the other areas we've drilled.
So we can extrapolate a little bit but to specifically have a full-blown development program out there right now we're not implementing a full-blown development program out there right now until we continue to see how the wells performed all the wells perform long-term.
But again in '13 I would expect towards the end of '13 that we would have a couple of more pad sites that would give as additional data points in additional areas that would continue to enhance our evaluation.
So perhaps by '14 we could rule it in on a broad-based basis or not? I mean we just need more time I understand.
No I think that's very realistic.
The next question is a follow up from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Going back to the discussion on price realization.
Gas that you're flowing on the Tennessee line.
Is that subject to the TGP zone 4 pricing? Or are you getting some other index on that? The answer is no.
It's not -- we do not sell off that index.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you -- if you wanted to flow additional gas on Tennessee today would that then be subject to zone 4 pricing or...
No no it would not.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the Springville expansion is that still on target for August completion? Springville has a couple of phases to it.
There are some units being commissioned as we speak.
And so we don't have an exact date but certainly in the next short term.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And for that next phase coming on how much capacity would that add? The next compressor will add approximately 100 000 a day of capacity and then the second phase of that will add approximately 200 000 a day of capacity.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And do you have timing for that 200 million (sic) [200 000] a day? We expect that kind of early fourth quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then lastly the 2 wells that you highlighted that produced over 1 Bcf a day what was the lateral length and stages on that and also the cost? Let me grab that.
The costs were I think-- let me see what's the -- Steve what do you have there...
17 stages.
Both of them? Yes.
Both of them are 17 stages.
So the cost is probably about $6.5 million something like that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And those were in the central area? Yes.
Our next question is a follow up from Michael Hall of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one on the -- more of the macro environment.
Just curious if you had any sense of industry backlog as it relates to kind of wells waiting on completion and/or pipeline in Northeastern PA? No Michael I don't have a -- exact numbers or any better intelligence than some of what we all read out there.
I know there's some wells that are drilled waiting on capacity buildout and that capacity buildout is down the road but I do not have the exact count on those -- the number of wells.
Our next question is from John [indiscernible]  Capital Partners.
The early results in the Upper Marcellus look good but the lower is obviously still better.
Kind of how do you see that playing out once -- are you going to do enough that you've increased your knowledge and the certainty of that and then continue to drill the lower? How does that look going into 2013? Well the drilling we're doing right now is predominantly in the lower.
We plan on continuing drilling predominantly in the lower as we continue to gather data points which we will drill some additional data points between now and through our '13 program in the Upper Marcellus.
The plan would be to gather information have the confidence and then once we get to a more intense pad drilling that we would augment some of that drilling with the reduced spacing that we've implemented in this particular area similar to that pattern.
Got it.
So I guess the lower recoveries you would more than make up in the synergies of drilling from the pads? Absolutely.
We expect to have increased synergies in our pad drilling process.
We just did not -- we're just not doing that right now.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Dinges for any closing remarks.
Okay.
I appreciate it Emily and thanks for the attention for this quarter.
As you can see the program that we've laid out we'll continue to follow it within what we think is a fairly robust production guidance process.
There was comments in regard to our reserve bookings and at the end of the year once we do that we think we are also going to have a very robust reserve recognition at the end of the year.
That's going to translate into I think a top-tier finding cost and certainly a very nice portfolio on the books by the end of the year.
Stay tuned.
We have more to come and I look forward to visiting with you all through the third quarter.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note: this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maureen and I appreciate all joining us for this third quarter conference call.
We have a lot of good information to go over today and with me to answer any questions is Scott Schroeder you all know him CFO; Jeff Hutton our VP Marketing; Steve Lindeman our VP Engineering and Technology; Matt Reid VP Regional Manager; and Todd Liebl our VP of Land and Business Development.
Let me just say the standard boilerplate forward-looking statements including in our press release last night do apply to my comments today.
On the call this morning we plan to cover the third quarter operating and financial results.
We'll give you an update on our '12 and '13 guidance.
We'll also update our hedging program for '12 and '13 followed by an update of our operations in the Marcellus Eagle Ford Marmaton and now we're going to add a brief comment in the Pearsall.
Before I do go into the details on those topics I'd like to highlight some of the items that were brought up in our press release last night.
Cabot's production is up 42% over comparable year-to-date periods.
Third quarter production was up 6% over the second quarter even with the delays that we've discussed in permitting and gathering lines in the Marcellus.
Earlier this month as far as a little bit granular information we brought on line 2 -- a 2-well pad 1.5 miles west of our Zick compressor area.
That pad site with 2 wells had peak rate of 43.8 million per day from only 25 stages which I think further demonstrates the productivity of our Marcellus wells and the benefit of our reduced spacing between stages.
We also recently drilled and completed the first Pearsall short lateral well under our joint venture with Osaka.
The well was drilled in Frio County and tested at a 24-hour rate over 1 400 barrels equivalent per day.
And I think most importantly and from a macro standpoint Cabot will deliver industry-leading production growth in '13 with a cash flow positive program using a $3.50 gas price.
I think certainly all those stack up to good information.
Last night our financial results the company reported clean earnings of approximately $43.1 million or $0.21 per share for the third quarter of '12 up from $35.3 million or $0.17 per share for the third quarter of '12 -- excuse me of '11.
The increase was driven by higher equivalent production and higher realized crude oil prices that more than offset weaker natural gas prices.
Cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow for the third quarter was $164 million and $175.7 million respectively both up from last year's comparison.
Moving to a comment on production.
Cabot continues to provide industry-leading production growth driven by our premier Marcellus assets in Susquehanna County.
Equivalent production for the 9-month period ended September 30 2012 was approximately 189 Bcfe which represents an increase of 42% compared to the 9-month period ended September 30 of 2011.
Taking into account last year's fourth quarter sale of our Rocky Mountains property our pro forma year-to-date growth in production is 51%.
This 9-month production level already exceeds our full year 2011 reported production.
Now to give a little forward-looking as far as our guidance is concerned for '12 we have updated our equivalent production growth range to 38% to 44% and our liquids production growth range to 60% to 70% to better reflect our outlook for the remainder of the year.
We had hoped for and scheduled earlier timing for our Marcellus gathering permits i.e.
being able to turn wells in the line.
However as previously mentioned the permits were just recently received by Williams.
This resulted in not achieving the high-end of our guidance.
With that said we are comfortable with the guidance range that we have just put out.
Full year per unit cost range were also tightened based on year-to-date results and our expectations for the fourth quarter.
We reaffirmed our net capital spending for '12 at $775 million and $825 million.
Okay.
For '13 we have updated our equivalent production growth range to 35% which is up from the 30% we had previously posted to 50%.
So 35% to 50%.
And we've established our liquids production growth range at 45% to 55%.
The midpoint of our guidance ranges when you look at 2012 and 2013 implies 3 consecutive years of 40-plus percent equivalent production growth which is an impressive number on an ever-increasing base while at the same time maintaining our capital discipline not covering our balance sheet or diluting our shareholders.
We have also provided initial guidance on cost for 2013 which reinforces our industry-leading cost structure and the continued trend for decreasing per unit cost.
We further refined our estimates for capital spending in 2013 to between $950 million and $1.025 billion with approximately 70% of that capital being allocated to our high rate of return projects in the Marcellus.
In a $3.50 natural gas environment and with recent efficiency enhancements our Marcellus rate of return certainly exceeds industry returns in all gas plays and most if not all oil plays in current commodity prices.
Additionally the planned program will deliver a slightly positive cash flow at a $3.50 natural gas and $90 oil price.
And I'd say not a common occurrence in our space.
Our 2012 production.
Excluding the 5 basis-only hedges the company has 37 contracts in our hedging book: 27 are gas swaps at $5.22; 5 are gas collars with a floor of $3.60 and a ceiling of $4.17; and 4 are oil swaps at $99.30 with an additional swap at $105.05.
Approximately 40% of the midpoint of our guidance for the remainder of '12 is currently hedged.
For our 2013 hedge book we have added 25 new hedges since our second quarter call in July.
We now have 48 contracts 45 for gas which are all collars and 3 swaps for oil.
Approximately 45% of the midpoint of our production guidance for '13 is currently hedged at an average floor price of $3.63 per Mcf which is $0.13 above the $3.50 we're using in our 2013 budget.
For additional information you can go to our website for any additional specifics.
Now let's move to the operation side of our business.
During the third quarter we achieved a new milestone with a 24-hour record of 252 million cubic foot of gas produced in our Susquehanna County area.
I should note we will exceed that level we think by 10:00 this morning in the last -- for the last 24-hour period touching approximately 780 million cubic foot a day.
I'm probably impressed with the North region's ability and their timing of some of these new releases.
I probably should have more conference calls.
Our gross cumulative production from the field is almost 400 Bcf with just 60 producing horizontal wells at this time -- excuse me with 160 producing horizontal wells at this time certainly highlighting the prolific nature of this asset.
While permitting delays for gathering lines continued to be an issue this last quarter we were able to bring on line 23 Marcellus wells and have subsequently brought on an additional 5 wells during October.
Our wells continue to outperform our expectation as evidenced by the highlighted 2-well pad that recently came on line in the Zick area.
The combined IP as I've mentioned of the 2-well pad was over 43 million cubic foot a day from just 25 frac stages which utilized the narrower frac stage spacing of 200 plus or minus feet.
The original 5-well pad at Zick has produced over 11 Bcf and approximately 180 days which I think further highlights the quality of our acreage as we continue to expand to the East.
In other news we recently had a 22 frac stage well reached 3 Bcf of cumulative production in just 105 days.
I think that's the fastest record to date.
It's broke the previous record we had set by 60 days.
We are currently operating 4 drilling rigs in the Marcellus and have 450 stages completing cleaning up or waiting to turn in line along with an additional 296 stages waiting to be completed in our Marcellus area.
In terms of our plan for 2013 we will increase our rig count in the Marcellus by 25%.
We'll go from 4 rigs to 5 rigs.
Scott likes that percentage level by the way.
We will stay at this level for the majority of the year and then add another rig as we enter 2014.
The planned well count for the 2013 program in the Marcellus is 84 wells with a placeholder for a handful of wells in the Utica depending on the success of the well we currently have shut in.
I kind of might add that that is also dependent upon whether or not Range and Cabot get together and continue drilling in an area that has all of our acreage HBP already.
The investment level as previously highlighted is about 70% of the overall program with 88% of that level focused on Marcellus drilling.
Okay.
I have a little bit of a narrative on the infrastructure.
We continue to aggressively pursue our infrastructure goals up in the Marcellus.
As you're aware we have been very clear to specifically outline those objectives in our discussion and presentations.
Last quarter we reported that the 2012 slowed down in the permit approval process did delay the construction of various gathering pipelines that ultimately affected the dates we turned our wells in line.
We believe that issue has been fully resolved and in fact Williams our midstream provider has now received 90% of the pipeline gathering permits to complete the 2012 program and has acquired 100% of the rightaways needed to complete our 2013 program.
In fact we have no less than 12 different pipelines that are currently in the construction phase.
This is great news on the pipeline construction side of the infrastructure.
On the other half of the infrastructure picture deals with the timing of compressor stations and free flow interconnect into the interstate pipelines.
These projects have made significant progress and while we are not going to see any of these individual projects have an in-service date earlier than we expect we do still expect to be close to our original goal of approximately 1.0 Bcf per day of takeaway prior to year-end 2012.
But just to be clear and as we have previously discussed when we put your models together as the infrastructure requirements grow and the facilities are placed into service throughout our acreage position we will in some cases have excess capacity in some areas but still slightly constrained in other areas.
And that phenomenon is simply a result of where we need to have our drilling rigs throughout the year.
One other point regarding infrastructure.
We have already provided Williams with the necessary information for our 2014 program.
We anticipate Williams will submit the completed application for permits in January of 2013 for our 2014 program.
Now let's move to the South.
This region has 5 rigs operating as we speak: 2 are in the Marmaton; and 3 rigs are drilling in the Pearsall with 1 of these rigs moving back to the Eagle Ford program fairly soon.
This rig level is expected to continue throughout 2013 as current plans call for about 50 net wells to be drilled.
The region accounts for roughly 30% of our overall capital program and of that amount 75% is dedicated to drilling.
All right.
I have been a little bit reluctant to discuss the status of the Pearsall with just 1 well but as I just mentioned last night Cabot has successfully drilled and completed its first Pearsall Osaka joint venture well in Frio County.
The short lateral well was drilled and completed with only 11 frac stages and tested at a 24-hour rate of over 1 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As mentioned 1 additional Pearsall well is completing and 3 wells are drilling.
A total of 6 Pearsall wells are planned for the 2012 program.
We hope our early drilling and completed wells will fall in the $9 million to $9.5 million range.
Our first well was slightly over $10 million with the science that we threw in that.
But with the learning curve we hope to be able to continue to improve what our expectations are on the drilling cost.
Cabot's net well cost will be 9.75% during the Osaka carry period and we will have a 65% working interest in the wells on first production.
We have accumulated over 70 000 acres net in the play.
And as I mentioned we do not normally discuss exploration efforts at this early stages.
However with the level of interest and the number of questions we had been receiving I felt it was necessary to provide an update.
In the Eagle Ford we announced our release of another successful well with 4 500-foot lateral and treated with 15 stages.
To date we have 38 Eagle Ford wells in the Buckhorn area.
As with other plays we have seen well cost come down as efficiencies are gained and we are now in the $6.5 million to $7 million completed well cost range.
Also in the third quarter the integration field to full pipeline access versus trucking our oil that occurred just a couple of months ago.
We are now able to produce the oil and transport it by that pipeline to Corpus Christi where we received LLS pricing.
This effort has made a fairly significant improvement in our realizations on an average of approximately $8 per barrel above NYMEX indications.
The combination of lower cost and higher prices certainly has improved our overall economics in this area.
Now let's move to North Texas the Panhandle of Oklahoma in the Marmaton.
Cabot recently completed a well with a 15-stage frac stimulation.
The well produced at a initial 24-hour rate 664 barrels of oil a day and an average of 593 barrels over the last 20 days.
We also drilled our first extended lateral well with a lateral length of approximately 9 500 feet.
The well was stimulated with 30 stages and is presently in the early stages of flowback.
The second extended lateral well has been drilled and will start completion at the end of October.
Completed well costs continue to average around $2.9 million to $3.3 million with early drilled extended laterals coming in between approximately $4 million to $4.5 million.
To date we have accumulated about 70 000 net acres in that play.
So in summary our drill bit success continues to drive our significant production and reserve growth expectations.
What I'm most pleased about is the continued innovation our team has come up with with new ideas that certainly is going to translate into incremental value.
My expectation that we will post excellent numbers at year-end '12 and it's also as a forward-look my expectation that Cabot will in 2013 certainly have industry-leading production growth.
We'll have a significant reserve addition at a very low cost to finding.
We will also have an improved balance sheet with a positive cash flow program using only a $3.50 gas price.
I think we'll see a milestone reached in '13 where we’ll have a Bcf per day of net production at some point during the year and we will achieve these results with only 10 operated rigs for most of the year.
I think a couple of these points may set us apart from some of our space.
Anyhow Maureen with that brief summary I will be more than happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Pearce Hammond Simmons.
Research Division</strong> On your capital guidance you mean on your production guidance for 2013 you provided the liquids production guidance.
Does that include the Pearsall? That includes the Pearsall with a risk profile attached to it.
In other words we obviously risk our exploratory exportation ideas and by putting together a production cash flow statement we risk our expectations accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then if you look at -- you're going to go to the reduced frac spacing in the Marcellus and in a larger way next year.
So how should we think about the total number of stages completed in the Marcellus in '13 versus '12? We will -- we'll certainly be higher.
I would expect that the increase will be 35-or-so percent.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then finally just from the industry standpoint given the recent rise in gas prices specifically for the calendar year '13 do you think the industry is going to be more active in the Marcellus and we should see a gradual uptick in the industry rig count in the Marcellus? Well I don't know.
It -- I think it depends on where companies have rate of return projects in their portfolio that would complete -- compete with their positions in the Marcellus.
Some of the Marcellus up there is not quite as prolific as the area that we have and the threshold for economic returns in other areas of the Marcellus might not compete with the returns that some companies might be able to deliver by drilling in some of their oil portfolio.
Our next question is from Bob Brackett Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Pearsall shale.
You're quoting numbers of $9 million to $9.5 million.
If I just compare that against your $7 million Eagle Ford wells what's that incremental cost? It doesn't seem like just go it a little deeper is going to cost you that $2 million.
I'll pass it over to Matt for a second.
But one of the things that you have to take into consideration is we're trying to determine where we're going to land the well.
We're trying to get our mud property straight.
And certainly it's in a higher pressure regime and the fracs require a little bit more -- well more pump pressures.
And we're using ceramic in the frac stages.
But I'll let Matt also expand on some of that.
Dan is exactly right.
And actually it's a different casing program than our Pearsall program.
We have an extra string of casing in our Pearsall program as opposed to our Eagle Ford program.
And we do see higher pour pressures in the Pearsall and we do see higher frac pressures as well.
And we do increase our profit strength as well during our fracs in the Pearsall.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And are you landing those Pearsall wells in the Bayer Shale or in the Pine Island? Or you -- do you think you're stimulating all 3 sub units? Right now we barely -- we haven't really discussed that and I can give you a little bit better feel for that after we do some micro seis work.
We'll be doing that probably in the first quarter of next year as to what we're actually stimulating.
I know where we're landed landed in about 70-foot interval there in the Pearsall.
You can call it the Bayer you can call it the Calcreek you can call it the James.
People call it different intervals.
Yes the 70-foot is in approximately 500 to 600 foot gross Pearsall interval.
Correct.
Our next question is Michael Hall Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess a couple of follow-ups on the tighter frac spacing.
I just want to make sure I'm I guess understanding the initial 2 wells.
Were those roughly 2 500 foot laterals if you're in about 25 stages between the 2 of them? And is that a bit shorter than your typical lateral and so on a more kind of a normalized basis we should see even more uplift? Is that a fair way to think about it? Yes we have -- I don't have the exact lateral length of those wells but keep in mind that some of our wells up there are shorter laterals not because we prefer that but because geographically if we are unable to get a leasehold position that at times we have to shorten the laterals.
So again I don't have the laterals space right in front of me but that typically -- well that is the reason why we shortened our laterals.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
And I guess is there any way to quantify or are you ready to kind of quantify a little bit more in terms of what sort of percentage increases in productivity and EUR per lateral foot you're seeing as a result of that program? And then also what -- all right go ahead then.
Yes.
Well Mike we certainly have seen an improvement and that's the reason why we're moving our program to the reduced spacing for the fracs.
We're not prepared to give details.
We are still evaluating all the pilot wells that we've drilled with this reduced spacing.
Steve Lindeman and his group are currently in the throes of preparing for year-end reserve.
And through that effort and evaluation of more data points on the production curve of these wells versus the wells that we are frac-ing at 250 will go into our bookings on EUR at the end of the year and we'll certainly be able to quantify a efficiency gain by virtue of that process.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
No that will be helpful.
And then I guess last one on that is how much of the 2013 program would you say is going to be utilized in that new approach roughly? We will be implementing the 200-plus or minus foot spacing for our entire '13 program.
Our next question is Brian Singer Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us the latest update on the backlog that you have in the Marcellus of stages or wells that are drilled but not completed and completed and awaiting tie-in? And then can you talk also -- you -- as you get to the Bcf a day by the end of the year how much of that would come on from wells that are already drilled already producing or wells that still need to be drilled? Okay.
I was going to pass that to Scott but he got a coughing attack here.
We have -- nice move Scott.
Thank you.
We have 19 wells that have -- are waiting on the pipeline.
Those have 283 stages.
We’re currently completing 9 wells with -- or in the process of flowing back one of the other 167 stages.
And we have 21 wells that are waiting on completion or -- with 296 stages.
And I'm sorry.
Brian what was the rest of your question? Research Division</strong> The rest of the question is as you get to a Bcf a day how much of the difference between where you are now and there will come from wells that are actually already producing today that may be constrained versus wells that are -- that you’ve got entitlement [ph] in your backlog versus wells that you may still have to drill? Well we have the expectation between now and the end of the year to bring on say another 30 wells.
And if you look at what the guys were able to provide me this morning that we think this most recent 24-hour period that we’ll be at 780 million cubic foot a day.
It's -- to me it looks like that we will be able to depending again where these 30 wells are coming on line and the infrastructure capacity it looks like that the wells that we'll bring on line will provide that -- get up to that Bcf a day.
And as far as capacity restraints or the existing wells being restrained either by lack of capacity through dehy or compression or by higher line pressure because we have not yet gone into the phase where we're reducing our field pressures I think we could see incremental gains from those wells once we are able to implement reduced line pressure.
That doesn’t answer your question I know exactly Brian but I do think the wells that we'll bring on between now and the end of year in our existing wells if we were able to deliver all of the gas that they could produce we could hit that Bcf a day.
However we will have constraints within the system.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then when we look at the midstream options for next year what are your thoughts on major milestones or the trajectory of further debottlenecking and new midstream outlooks coming on over the course of 2013? And how do you think about differential and the content of flexibility in terms of where you sell your gas as you look ahead to next year? Okay.
Well good questions.
And the focus on the infrastructure has been something that we have dealt with through this entire year.
I am pleased that we will be able to get this problem behind us for the most part in the -- as far as the effect it has on where our guidance is.
And I think Jeff is the appropriate person to kind of reference the current status of the infrastructure and also where we're going with the infrastructure and the market as a whole up there.
Okay Brian.
I think if you look back to our last presentation you'll see a central compressor station which is in the north central part of our play.
That is the next major step for Cabot in terms of completing the original infrastructure plan.
So that's kind of a second half or second -- late second quarter 2013.
We're not relying solely on that of course.
We have a number of projects: some new interconnects with existing pipes that will be free flow activity; units that are coming on late this year early first quarter.
But again you asked about the major next step.
That will be central compressor station that feeds a new 24-inch pipeline that's currently being laid.
It comes down to the old Springville system down the Transco.
In terms of moving gas around we of course are very very blessed to have 3 interstate pipelines that we're able to take our production to: a Millennium Pipe to the North a Tennessee Gas Pipeline on the 300-line right through the center of our acreage; and of course the Transco lighting system.
So currently with the options that we have with each compressor station we're actually able to for the first time start to play a little bit of the pricing game.
So better prices on Transco a little more gas goes there; better pricing on Tennessee a little more gas goes there.
So it's been fun compared to last December when we had as you know 600 000-day flowing into one pipe.
And we expect to continue to build the optionality into the system and the flexibility so that as we -- as our production grows we continue to have those options to deliver gas to different markets.
Our next question is from Matthew Portillo Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions for me.
On the Pearsall could we get just a breakdown on the hydrocarbon content between oil NGLs and gas? Well right now I'll say it this way that it's one way all in one area of the field so I'd be reluctant to give it all right now.
But we're over 50% black oil right now in the stream and then we have a high Btu content gas along with it.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Perfect.
And then just jumping quickly up to the Marcellus just a bookkeeping question.
In terms of well cost could you give us an update on -- kind of as we look at these 12- to 15-stage frac wells where you’re expecting cost to come in at the moment and how you see cost trends heading into 2013? Yes we have -- as we have stated in the past we've looked at the Marcellus and we've always outlined our typical well as being a 3 500-foot lateral with 15 stages.
Now it -- our typical well as we build our database now will be most likely reflected as a 3 500-foot lateral with approximately 18 stages in it.
That cost of that well is going to be a little bit higher because we'll have 3 additional stages in there.
And in regard to cost we're about $6 million or so now with our typical 15-stage frac well.
So we'll have a little bit of incremental cost with 3 additional stages.
But I'll also add that we're currently in negotiations with our pumping providers up there and that process has not executed yet.
We have not yet executed a final contract for our 13 pumping services but I am comfortable in saying that our pumping service cost will be below our cost we saw in 2012.
So I can't say exactly what I think it's going to be until we see where we land with the pumping service contract.
But directionally all our costs are going down.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a last question for me.
As we kind of look across your portfolio today you've obviously established quite a few new potential cornerstone assets.
And just trying to get a better sense of how you guys think about the potential for acceleration of development on these assets either with your own capital or potential through JVs over time.
So just wondering if you're looking at bringing in any additional partners across any of your either exploration or development plays and then how you guys are potentially thinking about capital acceleration potentially heading into the back-end of '13.
And I know it's a little bit early for that but just trying to get a better sense of how you guys are thinking about the opportunity set.
Well we're firmly blessed with a portfolio that yields very good returns and particularly our Marcellus and we're very cognizant of the fact that our Marcellus assets yield some of the best returns of any asset in the industry.
And we will continue to allocate and grow that asset as rapidly as we can.
Our main objective would be to enhance our present value of that asset and we'll continue to do so.
In the other areas of our portfolio we will continue to capture our acreage out there that's primary term acreage.
We have done so -- as an example of what we've been able to do is the Osaka transaction.
We were able to bring a partner in Osaka and we're very pleased to have them as a partner.
And we look forward to having them as a long-term partner.
So we are able to bring them in give them an opportunity to get a foothold in the States.
But also it allowed us to have leveraged dollars to drill a little bit deeper in the section i.e.
the Pearsall.
We knew the Pearsall had potential and we are currently drilling in the Pearsall.
Those leveraged dollars have allowed us to in essence maintain all of our acreage including the Eagle Ford acreage and it certainly has allowed us to compete on a return profile with these -- with the carrier we have at a very favorable rate compared to the Marcellus.
In the other areas like the Marmaton we have acreage out there that we would continue to desire to capture because we have very good returns out there in the Marmaton particularly with the very low completed well cost.
We will look at that and have looked at that as it is an area that would be right for a partnership.
And right now we have not strained our balance sheet.
Our '13 program has free cash available even as we operate in our area out there without -- in the Marmaton without a joint venture partner.
But we do evaluate it and we do look at how we can maximize the capital efficiency of every dollar we spend.
We have not taken off the table having another joint venture partner in any of our operations less and except the Marcellus.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
So as we think about those is it both the Marmaton and the Eagle Ford that could potentially be assets where you may bring in additional partners or just the Marmaton at the moment? No I think the entire area we'll look at if it looks like a significant enhancement to us and we have the right party that we would like to be in business with certainly being able to enhance our capital efficiency we would consider it.
Our next question is from Charles Meade Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Quick -- a couple of quick questions for you.
That -- those 2 wells in the Zick area is that the Daniels pad or are we still waiting for results on that? No the Daniels pad is another 7 miles to the East further.
We are still waiting on that area to get some pipelines to that particular area.
So that will be further out in '13 before we get a line out in that area.
We wanted...
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
That was -- So that will be like a first quarter '13 or something like that? No it's second quarter actually by time we get that line out there.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then the second question I had was regarding your Pearsall activity in 2013 is that going to be all in the Buckhorn area or are you going to pull a rig over to Powderhorn for part of the year? We will have the majority of the activity in the Buckhorn area but we will also do an exploratory evaluation of our Powderhorn area.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And so -- I mean do you have in mind I mean like a rough percentage? What percentage of your activity is going to be in Buckhorn versus Powderhorn? 90% is going to be in Buckhorn.
Our next question is Joe Magner Macquarie.
Just wanted to I guess try to tie some things together in case I missed it.
With the ongoing drilling activity have you -- I guess what -- have you quantified what sort of efficiencies you're seeing in terms of how many wells you can drill per rig per year? No we -- I haven't broken out -- I've broken it out like that just on the back of an envelope but we're -- our efficiencies that we see on a per rig basis kind of reflect in our rate of return number per well.
So when you look at -- if you want to look at it from a days drilling and rig-to-rig -- or excuse me spud-to-spud in the Marcellus we're looking at 20 22 days something of that range.
Pearsall is still a little bit early to make that determination.
I will say that Matt and his group had actually penciled in drill time and run pipe about 60 days originally in the Pearsall before we drilled our first well and they have come in in the 40 days to get that accomplished.
So they had already -- were able to beat their initial curve and certainly have ideas on how they're going to enhance that.
So we're fairly good on the type of drilling we're doing in the Marcellus and that 20 22 days is a phenomenon based on us having to make a lot more rig moves than we would have to -- than we'll have to make once we get to pure pad drilling.
We're only drilling 2 or 3 wells per pad and once we get to pad drilling certainly that spud-to-spud time will be reduced once we drill the 10 to 14 wells per pad that we plan on in future.
And I would expect Matt will be able to engineer the drilling of for example the Pearsall wells and get that drill time down just like he has in other -- every other area that we have been operating.
Okay.
Great.
And just touch on Pearsall being a risk component of your year-over-year liquids growth.
What are the I guess primary drivers that your liquids? Is it Marmaton? Is it -- just kind of provide a little more detail on that.
Yes it's Marmaton and the Eagle Ford.
And we certainly have in the mix a risk profile of our Pearsall expected completions.
Okay.
And just one last one.
That 1 Bcf a day rate you're referring to is that a net or a gross number? Just to clarify.
That is -- that would be a net number.
Our next question is Jack Aidan KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Dan could you guess or venture to guess what would you might exit the year in terms of production out of the Marcellus? I mean you have 780 million now.
Yes.
We have a number of wells coming online and we have a pretty good rate going right now.
I would say that if we were -- and again Jack you’ve got the snapshot so we got to make sure everything is in sync.
But I'll do the total company.
I think the total company would be 900 million equivalent a day or better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second question.
Now in the past you booked -- most of the...
That’s a net number by the way.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
In the past you booked your reserve at certain EURs.
Now with reduced spacing for -- in the frac stages now it looks like those 2 wells you're getting $2 million for the frac stages.
If that's what you're going to grow through the year 2013 directionally what kind of uplifts we might see in the reserve booking? I know it is early but can you venture in that area also a little bit? Well I can tell you like this.
I do think that our typical well definition of 3 500 feet in 15 stages will go to 3 500 foot and 18 stages or so.
And those 3 additional stages are going to have some incremental effect on a similar lateral length well as we had in our 11 bookings.
I'm not going to stretch to say that every frac stage now will be a 2 million a day increment.
That's just -- that's a very aggressive number and we don't have enough data points to say exactly what it's going to be.
But I will say and what we're trying to gather and what Steve Lindeman and his group and also Phil Stalnaker and his group were trying to determine is the additional frac stages it's just not additive for the 3 additional frac stages.
We think the additional reduced spacing for all the lateral length is going to have some incremental add some incremental gain by virtue of the stages being reduced from 250 to 200.
What that number is and how we quantify it on a IP per stage basis or an EUR basis I'm not prepared to narrow that at this stage.
But I am excited and obviously us moving our '13 program to that 200-foot spacing is indicative of how we feel about it.
Our next question is Biju Perincheril from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
On this Marcellus completions how should we think about it? Are you – with the more stages and doing lateral length are you still pumping the same amount of proppants and water per stage or are you now proportionately pumping less? And can you talk about what -- does it have any impact on the spacing that you had assumed before? Well we are still pumping at the same barrels per minute rate and we are also pumping these stages with the similar amount of proppant.
And again the effect on the way we were pumping -- or the stages and how we were completing wells before I think it's just -- the enhancement is going to be recognized through our production charts on each well as we get more data.
But I do think the efficiencies gained by reduced spacing and in keeping the pump pressures similar and the pump rates similar and the amount of proppant is going to be incrementally beneficial across the entire lateral length.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So if I think about the frac length laterally that's about same as before? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the infrastructure issues you've had was that related to some changes in the regulatory process or was it just a manpower issue with DEP or Army Corps of Engineers? Yes Biju it's actually a combination of those factors.
In fact the -- Williams has done an excellent job with the agencies at time-to-time try to venture and interpret the regulations a little differently with each application.
So there's a little bit of that going on.
There was the typical backlog of so many permit applications that without increased manpower at those agencies just a number of factors from communications between dual agencies when you have a wetland application for example.
Bit the DEP has made progress.
The governor actually has intervened somewhat into the process.
And so we feel much much better today than we did a year ago.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
So when do you think Williams will start receiving permits for the FY 2013 program? Okay.
So the applications that Williams’ files are -- with the agencies the Corps of Engineers and the DEP they are on an ongoing process.
So it's not exactly a calendar year.
We gave Williams a 2013 program well earlier than some of the other wells.
That permit actually could come out earlier or maybe we already have and I think we do have some of the '13 permits in hand.
So it's really not a stop-and-go process with each program year; it's just an ongoing process.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I should think about -- you have about 30 location backlog today in hand permit.
And then...
Biju this is Scott.
One of the other things picking up on what Jeff said is again Williams had all the permits fully 100% ready to turn into the regulators by July of this year for '13.
And so one of the things the dynamics that happened is early in this process if you remember was kind of 6 to 9 months to get them out and then it kind of ballooned out to 18 months.
It's moving back towards the 12- to 13-month time period.
One of the things we've said in some of our meetings was that by the end of next summer directly to your question we kind of expect we'd have all the 13 permits if they kind of take a little over the – a year to get.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
That's very helpful.
And then one last question just clarification on that Piersall rate.
Dan did I hear you that the rate that you quoted is not -- does not include NGLs such as the oil and rich gas? The BOE of 1 400 barrels a day does include the full well stream.
I just haven't given the mix of the MMBtu quality of the gas and the NGLs that are associated with it.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question is Joe Allman JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of infrastructure in the Marcellus and in particular the interstate pipes what gives you the confidence that you can grow your production as much as you've forecast? Are you relying on your own firm transportation or are you relying more so on the firm capacity of others? And where might there be some vulnerability? I'll let Jeff go into that Joe.
Okay.
Well there's always a challenge with that subject but here's how we plan for that one.
We currently hold FT basis of around 350 000 a day of firm takeaway.
So we sleep well at night knowing that we have that amount of capacity.
Of course we're always participating in expansion projects and we have a number of projects that we're considering participation in.
On a -- if you kind of think we're producing -- we're just on an average day in the past few months 750 000 a day then you can assume that our firm transport moves x amount of gas and then our customers firm transport moves x amount of gas.
So we have from the beginning sold to utilities LDCs in the Northeast volumes of gas that they move under their end-path firm transportation.
And that's been our success to date.
As we move larger volumes we've signed some longer-term contracts with a couple of parties that have this firm transportation.
It is very valuable.
There's been a couple of expansions particularly on Tennessee the EQT expansion which added 350 000 a day of firm.
That capacity is currently not all in use so capacity has freed up on that pipeline and also in Millennium.
So we feel good that the interstates have responded with additional backhaul and additional expansion capacity.
Transco has a project right now that will come about in 2 years that will add around 500 000 to 600 000 a day capacity.
And last but not least and I'll use this opportunity to plug Constitution Pipeline that is our 650 000 a day pipeline that's going to come from a central compressor station that I mentioned earlier into the Iroquois Zone 2 market and a Tennessee 200-line market.
Cabot will have 500 000 a day of firm capacity on that pipeline.
So we are planning for the future.
We're going to end up holding a lot of firm transport but we'll always be selling to utilities in the Northeast and the Mid-Atlantic area that do hold firm transportation.
Having no further questions this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing marks.
Thank you Maureen.
I appreciate everybody joining us for the call.
I think you can see that we have posted some good numbers for our third quarter year quarter-end expect the numbers to continue to improve as we get to '12 year-end.
And we've given you a little bit of a look at our '13 and our expectation is our '13 is going to be equally as robust as our '12 was.
So thank you for your commitment.
Thanks for the loyalty for those long-term holders.
And we appreciate your support.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Laura and good morning all.
Thank you for joining us for this call.
I have in the room with me today Scott Schroeder our CFO; Jeff Hutton our VP of Marketing; Steve Lindeman VP of Engineering and Technology; Matt Reid who runs our South Region; and Todd Liebl our VP of Land and Business Development.
Let me say the standard boilerplate language and forward-looking statements on our press releases do apply to my comments today.
What I do plan on covering today is our full year 2012 operating and financial results our year-end 2012 reserve analysis an update on our expectations for '13 followed by an update on the operations specifically in the Marcellus Eagle Ford Marmaton and Pearsall.
Before I do go into the details of our operation let me start with the highlights from this last night's press releases and I think these are worth repeating.
For 2012 we produced a record 267.7 Bcfe at an increase of 43% over 2011 representing the second consecutive year of production growth exceeding 40%.
Despite a challenged natural gas price environment for most of the year we recorded record revenues of $1.2 billion which represents the first time our company has exceeded the billion-dollar mark.
Additionally we also achieved record cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow numbers.
We grew our reserves our year-end reserves proved reserves by 27% to 3.8 Tcf.
This growth we generated 100% organically.
We replaced 417% of our production at an all source finding cost of $0.87 per Mcfe which included an all source finding cost in our Marcellus area of $0.49 per Mcf.
Okay.
Now let's move to the financial operational results for the full year of '12.
The company reported clean earnings of $138.9 million or $0.66 per share.
Cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow were up 30% and 24% respectively compared to 2011.
The increase was driven by higher equivalent production and higher realized crude oil prices that more than offset weaker natural gas prices.
Total per unit cost which includes financing decreased to $3.69 per Mcfe in 2012 which is down 9% compared to '11 as all operating expense categories decreased on a per unit basis in '12 except for our transportation and gathering and taxes and other income.
Okay.
2012 was a milestone year for the company operationally as we achieved 1 Bcf per day of gross Marcellus production and 1 Bcfe total company net production during December.
For the full year we continued to provide best-in-class production growth achieving a level of 42.3%.
This includes natural gas production growth of 42% and liquids growth of 67%.
The fourth quarter was especially strong for us operationally in the Marcellus as we grew natural gas production 19% sequentially over the third quarter.
Now let's move into our year-end reserve report.
As I mentioned year-end proved reserves were up 27% representing consecutive years of significant reserve growth.
In addition to the previously stated metrics 926.8 Bcfe of additions were recorded from our 100% organic drilling program along with 188.6 Bcfe positive revisions which is impressive given the negative revisions we have seen across the industry due to a 33% decrease in the benchmark pricing used for booking natural gas reserves.
The 188.6 Bcfe of total revisions includes 369.6 Bcf of positive performance revisions primarily in the Marcellus which is offset by negative pricing and reclassification revisions primarily in the South area.
Specifically in the Marcellus we increased our reserve bookings on PUD locations from an EUR [estimated ultimate recovery] of 7.5 Bcf to 9 Bcf per well based on the results we see throughout the play.
Based on 41 producing wells our typical well for the 2012 program was drilled at a lateral length of 4 087 feet with 17.6 frac stages and an EUR of 13.9 Bcf which further highlights the truly unique nature of our position in Susquehanna which we believe is in the sweet spot of the most prolific natural gas field in North America.
Our year-end reserves were 96 natural gas -- 96% natural gas which is in line with last year's percentage.
Our overall PUD reserve percentage decreased slightly to 40%.
We continue to be fairly conservative in our reserve bookings recognizing a modest 0.7 offset PUD locations for each of our proved developed wells in the Marcellus.
On our guidance for '13 we have reaffirmed our equivalent production growth range of 35% to 50% and adjusted our liquids growth range to 35% to 50% which reflects our capital allocation towards liquids.
The midpoint of our guidance for '13 implies 3 consecutive years of 40%-plus equivalent production growth which is especially impressive considering we expect to spend within cash flow based on our budgeted commodity price of $3.50 for natural gas and $90 per barrel of oil.
Capital and cost guidance for the year remains unchanged.
We did do a little additional hedging towards the end of -- since the end of the year.
We added 10 contracts to our '13 hedging program.
All of those 10 contracts have floors that are above our budgeted number.
And we added 5 contracts to our 2014 program.
All of these were zero-cost collars.
You can get the further details on our website.
Now let's move in to the specific areas starting with the Marcellus.
During the fourth quarter we achieved a new milestone with a 24-hour production rate exceeding 1 Bcf of gross production per day.
This record was made possible by accelerating the turning in line of some wells that were scheduled for the first quarter of '13.
We're able to move that up.
And not only do we turn them all in line sooner but we certainly saw outstanding performance from these wells.
During the fourth quarter we turned in line 30 horizontal wells which included 12 wells that were turned in line in the first half of December.
Of these 30 wells they had an average of 16.7 frac stages per well 24-hour IP production rates of 20.1 million cubic foot a day and an impressive 30-day average production rate of 16.6 million cubic foot a day.
Of note in addition to the production highlights in our press release 1 well we've had has reached 7 Bcf of cumulative production in 523 days.
That is our fastest well to 7 Bcf to date.
Just this week we hit a new milestone for the field reaching 500 Bcf in gross cumulative production from just 189 horizontal wells and a small contribution from several vertical wells.
With the acceleration of completions into December of '12 it created a 1 Bcf opportunity and accomplishment production in the first portion of the years will be fairly flat as we coordinate new infrastructure with completion operations.
We effectively accelerated over 100 stages into the  fourth quarter.
We completed a total of 871 frac stages during the fourth quarter and added additional -- added an additional drilling rig in December giving us a total of 5 horizontal rigs in operation now.
And we plan on drilling 85 wells in our 2013 program.
We currently have 405 stages completing cleaning up or waiting to be turned in line along with an additional 282 stages waiting to be completed.
On the comment on the Marcellus infrastructure we continue to see good progress on infrastructure program by our midstream partner Williams is scheduled -- is on schedule with the right of ways the permitting construction and all the aspects of continuing on an ongoing infrastructure buildout for '13.
Specifically nearly all right of ways have been acquired and the vast majority of the gathering permits are in hand for our '13 program.
Now let's move to the South region in the Eagle Ford.
To date we have drilled 41 wells in our Buckhorn area of the Eagle Ford.
Well costs continue to come down with an average well cost targeted in '13 in the $6 million to $7 million range.
We continue to be pleased with results of our down-spacing program with wells drilled approximately 400 feet apart.
These wells have shown comparable production and EURs as other wells in the field.
We recently drilled our longest lateral well to date in the Eagle Ford which was 8 200 feet.
The well will be completed with a 28-stage frac job and that treatment is scheduled in March.
Comments on the Pearsall.
The drilling of the planned 15 gross wells for '13 is underway with 3 drilling rigs.
Currently 4 wells are completed or waiting on completion and 5 wells are producing at this time.
The 30-day average production for the rates of 4 of the wells that have produced for at least 30 days so far is 631 Bcfe per day.
The oil and gas ratio depends on the location of the wells moving in the north-south direction with an average ratio of 56% oil and 44% gas.
As we are still in the early stages of this play the region continues its work to refine the placement of the laterals in a very thick zone and we're trying to optimize the completion techniques out there.
Our objective is obvious moving forward is to reduce our completed well cost and continue to show improvements with our average production rates.
In our Marmaton area we have reached -- we have 24 operated wells in production.
The 2 drilling rigs are currently operating area -- in the area.
The average initial production rate for all operated wells drilled in the fourth quarter was 562 BOE per day which is approximately 90% oil.
While we're very early in the extended lateral program with only 3 wells on production at this time we are very pleased with the early operations.
These extended laterals average approximately 9 500 feet and we're stimulating the wells with 30 frac stages.
The average EUR again early time we're seeing is increased by 60% to 70% over the shorter laterals of 4 500 feet.
The additional cost for the extended lateral is approximately 30% over the cost of the shorter laterals.
In these wells we see an extended cleanup period with increasing production during this cleanup period prior to leveling off to a normal decline.
We presently have 8 additional extended laterals planned for our '13 program.
In summary 2012 was another outstanding year for Cabot and we fully expect our momentum to carry into 2013.
We're currently looking for ways to enhance and maximize shareholder value.
And we know Cabot is very well positioned for another year of industry-leading production and reserve growth at best-in-class cost.
Laura that completes my comments and I'm most happy to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on running room in the Marcellus.
Can you remind us of sort of drilling locations down spacing where your thinking is on that right now? Well so far we're still in the process of capturing primary term acreage.
Our spacing where we do have wells close together is 1 000 feet at this time.
And it's our plan once we get to pad development drilling that we'll test down-space opportunities in the lower Marcellus.
We have staggered a couple of wells in between 2 Lower Marcellus wells and the Upper Marcellus.
And that staggered distance between those wells is 500 feet.
We've seen good results in those particular wells.
We have a couple of hundred thousand locations -- a couple of hundred thousand acres in the Marcellus.
And we have at least 3 000 locations out in front of us.
And the next question is from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> This first question I have is just sort of a qualitative one.
Dan I'm wondering if you and your team are surprised by some of these wells when they come online with their productivity as I think a lot of people on the call are.
Is this the kind of thing where you're still amazed when you see these reports come across your desk or is this -- or have you -- is this just what you expect at this point? Well Charles you can see our financial metrics and our operating metrics that we're able to produce.
And it's certainly a direct result of the -- of what we're seeing coming out of our particular area of the Marcellus.
When we started this program and we drilled our -- started our -- spud our first well up there in '05 and we moved it on into '06 we thought we would be in high cotton if we had a 4 Bcf well up there.
As we progressed and as we continue to see our performance stay in a narrow range on a per well basis.
Certainly we have very very good wells and we have wells that are below the average obviously.
But each tweaking we do whether it's in how we're spacing the frac stages for example in '12 going from 250-foot spacing in our frac stages down to 200-foot spacing in our frac stages we think we have enhanced our line a little bit by doing that.
Our costs continue to come down so the addition of those several additional stages on a particular lateral length is not -- it's not a problem.
And overall that has enhanced our rate of return.
But the production levels and the way that these wells perform on its natural decline I think have impressed not only Cabot but I think it's impressed everybody that has taking a look at it.
We use Miller and Lents as our third-party engineering firm.
And Miller and Lents is in full support of our bookings.
In fact this year in a discrepancy between outside engineering and internal engineering we had less than 2% discrepancy in our reserve bookings which as all can imagine is a very very low delta between outside third-party engineering and internal engineers.
We continue to be impressed.
A long-winded answer.
I am -- look at these wells and I've looked at a couple of the wells that we had brought on not that long ago.
Couple of wells producing over 60 70 million cubic foot a day a well shale well producing over 40 million cubic foot a day continues that 30-day average over 35 million cubic foot a day.
I had 20 years in the offshore and I would have taken that well offshore any day of the week.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
Well I appreciate that long-winded answer.
I didn't think it was at all.
It's great additional color.
And if I could just one follow-up on the Pearsall.
I know that you guys are going to be doing a lot of science there.
But I was hoping you might add a little color on what the dimensions are of your experiments this year.
Is it going to be kind of traversing northwest to southeast? Is it going to be more in what part of the zones at what horizon you're completing in or is it the frac design or all of the above? Yes Charles it's all of the above.
And our layout of our program with this being an exportation play like it is we were not certain without production where we were in the maturity window.
We know moving north to south we have about a 20-mile range north to south.
And we're seeing that transition within that geographic area.
We have a very thick section in the Pearsall.
Matt and his guys have landed the wells in a stratigraphic different spot in probably 8 or 10 of the wells that we have drilled so far.
We have tried various different frac techniques that would allow us to one get all of our frac stages away and not screen out prematurely the spacing of those frac stages where we put our ports in each particular frac stages being worked on and tweaked with Matt's group right now.
So you can imagine that if we're landing in different spots and we're trying to frac different ways in different spots if you look at the -- trying to get all of the iterations in 1 well and the data points together it takes a lot of wells to be able to get all the data points and try to find the most cost-effective and efficient way of frac-ing these wells so that's the experiment we're in right now.
And next we have a question from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk to where Marcellus production is currently? I think I heard you say kind of flattish trajectory during the first half.
I just wanted a little bit more color if that's from current levels versus fourth quarter average levels and whether you're planning on completing wells during the first half.
Yes we are -- right now our current production is right at the gross Bcf in the Marcellus.
We have -- and I'll pitch the ball to Jeff to just briefly talk about the infrastructure in a second.
But we will be bringing on wells and getting them tied in.
But as far as us being able to go beyond the Bcf we're going to be somewhat limited with the completion of the infrastructure to see the full effect of that.
But I'll let Jeff kind of bring it up to speed on where we are on the -- and Williams is on the infrastructure.
We accelerated some wells into the fourth quarter and that was due to Williams being able to get some permits and actually they're running several crews on the construction side of the business.
So in conjunction with that we also have some additional compressor stations that are scheduled for later in the year.
We've talked about a central compressor station which is now kind of a May June event that will add some takeaway to the picture.
And then we have additional units planned kind of late third quarter early fourth quarter which will also kind of enhance our overall position out there.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then speaking with the transportation theme here when you just think longer term are you still seeing interest from consumers to use their firm transport capacity? Or when you think about longer term are you looking for additional Cabot purchase from transport beyond Constitution? Well currently we have approximately 300 000 there in our own firm so about 700 000 is using our customers' firm.
And that seems to work very well.
We have a number of long-term contracts using our customers' firm transport so that also helps us.
As you know in 2 years we'll pick up another 500 000 a day on Constitution.
We've also participated on a project with Millennium and Columbia called the East Expansion.
That's going to add another 50 000 a day in about 2.5 years.
And so we're constantly evaluating our position there.
The Leidy Southeast Expansion on Transco we're able to get a long-term sale using Piedmont's firm transportation position on that expansion.
So it's an ongoing effort and we -- everyday we're exploring new ways to move gas.
And the next question is from Michael Hall of Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess first I just wanted to talk a little bit about your thoughts around capital allocation as I kind of look at your funding profile going forward to start throwing off some good free cash next year it looks like.
And just curious on your thoughts on what you might do with that if you're somewhat limited by infrastructure where does that cash get allocated? And you talked about shareholder value enhancement.
Is there any thoughts of returning any of that to shareholders or is that all plowed back in the ground? Just curious how you're thinking about that.
Well we put together a 5-year model.
We've gone over that 5-year model with our board.
We've used modest commodity prices.
And when I say modest commodity prices it means below strip pricing to put our program and 5-year plan together.
And as we see it we are going to generate a significant level of free cash and growth in reserves and production throughout that period.
On near-term capital allocation when you look at our program this year we do look like we'll generate a little bit of positive cash going into '14.
Certainly we'll generate a little bit more positive cash.
One of the things that we would do with some of the positive cash generated from our drilling and producing operation is to spend I don't know $75 million to  $100 million of it in participation with and construction of our Constitution Pipeline.
We have 25% of that pipeline that is commissioned -- due to commission in March of 2015.
As Jeff just mentioned we have 0.5 Bcf a day net to Cabot to move through that pipeline.
And as we have gone around Scott and I have visited across the table with a number of our investors that is a common question what we're going to do with the cash that we'll be spending off.
We're fully conscious of demand or value destruction by just going out and spending the cash because we have it in the bank.
We have a unique position on -- with the Marcellus and we know that we could be dilutive to a shareholder if we went out and just spent money on a project that doesn't compete with the amount of capital we allocate to the Marcellus and the return that we get from that.
But you can think out ahead and you can look out there in the space what people do with the free cash.
Options would be increased dividends we could also place a special dividend out there to shareholders we could look at share buybacks we could also run sensitivities which we have and aggressive acceleration of our operations with that free cash also.
So we're cognizant we're thinking about it.
We had a board meetings Wednesday and Thursday.
That is a discussion in the -- inside the boardroom and more to come on that Michael.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Appreciate it .If you had to kind of force rank those options that you just laid out what's the kind of current thinking on that? I'll let Scott -- obviously with the -- with this 5-year model we have and looking at the amount of free cash we have and debt paydown that we can do Scott just walks around the office with a big smile.
I'll let him answer it.
Clearly Michael what Dan laid out the #1 priority is our investment of that excess would be our obligation to fund Constitution.
The second probably most efficient use of those dollars is a way of looking at the combination of leading into Constitution's coming online what can you -- could you accelerate in the Marcellus.
And then third would be dividends of one form or another.
So if you -- that would kind of be the top 3.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then one more if I may.
Just curious and sorry if I've missed this.
But what's the kind of planned lateral -- average lateral length in 2013 in the Marcellus program and average stages drilled on those wells or completed on those wells? Well the -- yes Michael the plan for '13 is probably going in at being slightly more than the '12 program but I would think in the similar range.
And the number of stages will probably go up average number of stages will probably go up slightly because the majority of our '13 program is going to have the 200-foot spacing versus a mixed bag on the distance between frac stages in our '12 program.
And the next question is from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan on the 41 producing locations that you booked last year can you talk about how many of those are completed using the tighter frac spacing and what EUR those wells were booked at? 15.
15 of the 41 were used with the tighter spacing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you talk about what the average EUR for those wells are versus sort of the [indiscernible] Yes the average EUR for those 15 wells was slightly higher than the 13.9 Bcf on the other wells.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then the well that you talked about I think that was the 35-stage well.
Can you give us some color on what was the lateral length and cost on that one and...
Okay.
The lateral length I have -- let me ask Steve here.
What was it? 6 875 was the lateral length and the cost was I think between $7 million $7.5 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it did I mean -- it sounds like that's -- you clearly have seen some productivity improvement efficiency gains as you look with that long laterals and more stages.
So just what are the opportunities to further increase the lateral length and more stages in your operations there? Well I think the opportunity to continue to extend our laterals is valid.
We had a good success on the all-stage fracs even the 2 [ph] stages on that completion.
Once you get out to the 30-stage frac you get concerned about completely being able to get away what your design frac stage might be and -- but we were pleased.
We do anticipate that our average lateral length will continue to creep up.
Keep in mind right now that we don't have development drilling going on that we're on these particular pad sites and we're capturing our primary term acreage and we're drilling 2 maybe 3 wells per pad.
Also keep in mind that there is not forced pooling in Pennsylvania.
And if we still have holdouts out there as much as we would try to buy and lease very very small tracks of acreage that it does affect some of the lateral lengths that we would drill certainly we would prefer drilling in a uniform fashion out there.
But it's just not quite as possible because of the current regulations in Pennsylvania.
But with that said our objective is to drill most -- the most cost-effective or return effective wells that we can design out there.
And our next question comes from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if I missed this but what are your current well costs in the Marcellus right now and then where do you think that could trend to by year end? Well since we've gone a little bit longer laterals and a few more stages we're kind of between the $6 million $6.8 million range.
And again from an efficiency standpoint ongoing across-the-board trying to continue to drive cost out of the drilling complete side.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then Dan for your acreage in Susquehanna County are there any other targeted horizons beside the Lower Marcellus Upper Marcellus and the Pearsall? We think there could be.
But our focus and concentration right now is exclusively on the Marcellus.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then the last one for me any update on the Utica? Well the Utica is again operated by Range.
I would imagine I don't know I think they're close to coming out in release.
And typically as we do with non-operated positions we defer to the operator.
I can't say that we've been pleased with results to the extent of what we saw in the thickness side.
I think the -- in the maturation portion of the well we're pleased with what we've seen and expect it to be in the liquids-rich area.
And I think we're there.
We certainly saw decent pressures in the well and got a little production out of it.
Moving forward certainly we'll conduct more activities moving forward.
I know Range is a great operator and very talented.
They're going to be looking at where we land the well how we complete the wells going forward.
And just like our comments in the Pearsall they're going to be trying to sort through how to maximize the results.
So I've got all the confidence in the world in Range.
And our next question is from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> You guys have put up some pretty fantastic results in Dimock and Springville.
And I was just curious as we think about the 10 to 15 Bcf type curves that you guys have experienced over the last year or so I'm just curious how we should think about that in terms of the prospectivity over your entire acreage position in Susquehanna.
And I guess as we think about the delineation going forward how should we think about kind of appraisal of the rest of your acreage position over the next few years? Well we -- the data points that we've given Matt outside of where the majority of our drilling has taken place so far.
If you move from our area where the majority of the infrastructure is built to where we have been producing for the most part we've moved east 7 miles from closest production to the Zick area.
That's right along the Tennessee 300 line.
We've put a compressor there.
We drilled 5 wells from that pad site.
And the wells in that particular area are equivalent to or right at our 2012 program.
We have gone another 9 miles to the east of that really to the far eastern edge of our acreage.
We don't have pipeline out there that's going to be coming in in probably the second maybe early third quarter -- or third quarter maybe early fourth quarter all the way out to the Eastern portion of our acreage out there.
But we have drilled wells and completed those flowed those wells back and looked at the characteristics of those flowbacks.
What we saw in the flowback and the pressures we saw and how rapid those wells unloaded they were extremely consistent with what we've seen in our other areas.
We've moved to the northeast slightly to the northeast of our area the majority of our drilling.
We had a pad site there where we had -- we drilled 4 wells and we were able to get an early look at the production and have brought those wells on line.
And those wells on line fall right on our curve also for the average results we've seen on our '12 program.
So we continue to step out.
We do have data points out there that we feel comfortable de-risking our acreage de-risking in a manner consistent with the results that we were seeing and we feel good about a vast majority of our acreage being able to yield consistent results.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> So just to clarify there is it fair to say that as you move into the neighboring townships to the East you guys are pretty comfortable with kind of a 10-plus Bcf type curve for those assets from what you've seen so far? Yes.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then as we think about your Marcellus asset today I was just curious within that 5-year plan that you've laid out could you give us a little color on how we should think about kind of plateau rig count given the infrastructure takeaway you have at the moment? Or where we should think that rig count trends to over time? Yes.
And certainly Scott through his group managed the build out of that 5-year plan.
Scott you want to...
Yes.
Matt what we did is we haven't seen a plateau either in the production over the next 5 years or in the rig count.
We did a -- as Dan alluded to in an earlier question that we didn't -- we weren't aggressive on the underlying commodity price deck.
So it was a fairly conservative price deck capping out at $4 per Mcf.
And so we've kind of ramped up gradually 1 to 6 then to 7 8.
And we I think in 2017 we were at 9 or 10.
So again we didn't go real aggressive on the rig count for the Marcellus.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I guess just final question for me looking at your asset base today with the Eagle Ford Marmaton and Pearsall obviously kind of given what we've seen from a return perspective in the Marcellus those assets may struggle a bit to compete for capital.
I was curious if those are potentially up for divestment at some point.
And would that be something that you'd be interested in? And I know you've done the Pearsall JV but just curious how you guys are thinking about those on an incremental basis.
Well you can tell by our capital allocation we have basically $1 billion program in '13.
We're allocating 70% to the Marcellus.
We're allocating the rest of it to liquids in the areas that you've identified in the South.
And we're balancing our program.
We don't have any illusions of us trying to make a transition from a natural gas company to a liquids company.
But we do think with the assets that we have in this -- in the liquids windows that we can yield very very good returns.
And if you have the commodity price and differential that we see today and I'm talking about the $90-or-so oil prices that though they do not compete with our Marcellus returns they nevertheless are competitive returns for the cost of capital and yielding good returns for shareholders.
They -- and moving forward and if you looked at how we want to ramp up and when we get the infrastructure build out of the Marcellus and we continue to add production there we're going to have enough free cash to do that.
But you did not hear us say that we're going to have hear us say that we're going to ramp up and continue dumping a lot of money into our liquids areas.
We're going to keep a modest amount of capital going in that particular area.
We'll capture the primary term acreage we have in areas that do yield very good returns and we'll continue to grow our liquids production in that vein.
But because of the free cash it's -- we understand the balance between putting together a program that's going to yield the outstanding returns we are yielding and what it would do if we allocated significant cash to lower return assets.
So I don't know if I answered you directly but our liquids assets are good assets.
We have talked about in the past that we JV some of those assets.
If we felt like there was a strong use of capital we certainly have that flexibility within our current balance sheet and with our $1 billion program.
But if we felt like that if we wanted to capture some additional cash certainly it would be those assets that we would sell or JV to accomplish that.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I apologize.
Just one follow-up question if you're comfortable answering it.
Just as I think about the 5-year program is there any color you guys would like to give in terms of rough range on production for the Marcellus kind of on that rig program you've talked about? It's -- I'll answer it by it's large.
And Scott wants to say something.
Again we give guidance kind 1 year at a time 18 months at the most just because there's lot of varying factors.
But I'll echo Dan's comment the numbers get very large.
And our next question comes from Gil Yang of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> For the PUD upward revision it's going to 9 Bcf per well are those 9 Bcf wells booked at the 200-foot frac density? Well the -- they're booked at -- assuming a number of stages we don't really get that granular on booking PUDs I'm saying that they're 200-foot spaced frac stages.
But we do reduce -- to arrive at that we have a reduced number of stages to the PUDs and that's 12 to 13 stages.
Inc</strong> Okay.
So I guess what I'm trying to get at was the upward revision of PUDs driven by performance of neighboring PDP or was it a change in the number of frac fracs in those wells? It was really a -- we try to -- when we booked year end reserves and Steve Lindeman again is responsible for our bookings and managing our reserve book what we try to do is balance our entire report and make it simple for our shareholders to read through.
And one of the things that we try to do is stay fairly consistent with our percentage of PUD booking.
We don't try to fluctuate that number.
We also remain what I would say is very conservative on our PUD booking in the Marcellus.
As I mentioned for each location PDP location that we have out there we only have 0.7 locations on the PUD side.
So we're very very conservative in that regard.
But that allows us to continue to balance the overall PUD number on our year-end bookings.
Inc</strong> Okay.
And related to the overall -- the tighter frac spacing opportunity do you think -- do you have any indication yet whether or not the decline the type curve decline rate is the same? Or is there a potential for a steeper decline rate once you get out maybe a few years with the tighter spacing? Yes well I'll make a brief comment then I'll let Steve Lindeman answer it.
But we're comfortable on our curve fit in what we're seeing.
But Steve do I'll let you add.
Yes Gil what we're seeing is they are performing very very comparable to our other further spaced stages.
We've got 6 wells that have been on line now for between 6 to 8 months.
So we got quite a bit of production information on those and they've recovered somewhere between let's say 17% -- 15% to 18% of their EUR.
So we've got pretty good information and they are performing very similarly to the other wells.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of questions Dan.
I guess I'm trying to pull together a lot of the comments you've made on the 2012 type curve.
Is it a little simplistic but could you help us understand what proportion of your acreage at this point do you think is capable of replicating those results and how are you prioritizing your rig allocation towards those high EUR wells at this point? I'll let Steve answer the latter part of that but I'll answer the first part.
As I indicated on an earlier question I think Matt asked we have a -- drilled a large geographic area with producing results in our acreage position.
The farthest step outs that we have moved to the east at the Zick location which is 7 miles from our big area of drilling and where we laid our infrastructure.
And those wells are performing very well.
And I think they've been on over 200 maybe pushing a year is how long those wells have been on.
And we've then moved 9 miles further to the east and have flowback wells there that show consistency with what we've seen in our areas of -- for example 13.9 Bcf 2012 average that we've given.
We don't have infrastructure out there to produce those wells for an extended period of time but the information we've seen is good.
So percentage-wise it would be a SWAG number and certainly 60% 70% is a SWAG number at this stage.
Research Division</strong> That was I was looking for.
And on the rigs? Yes.
And I'll let Steve answer that.
And Doug just to elaborate a little bit more in terms of decline it's very impressive at how these wells performed very similarly per stage.
And so when you look at the statistics across our area it's very very consistent.
And so I think as Dan alluded to we've got a lot of confidence moving out towards the east.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess my follow-up is you're probably aware there's a fair number of acreage packages that seem to be coming in the market up in your areas.
I'm just curious if you're showing an interest there.
If you have any color as to whether there are any opportunities that are meaningfully out to what is already clearly a perfect position.
Yes Doug.
We're aware of the acreage packages that are coming on the market.
We have a geologic model that we initiated our leasing on and we have continued to refine through the -- not only the data that we have as operated data but also industry data throughout the area.
And our position that we do have and where our acreage is is there for a very good reason which fits our geologic model.
And we're entirely comfortable with our position in Susquehanna where we -- where our current footprint is.
And next we have a question from Chad Landry [ph] of Iberia Capital.
Just had a quick question.
On the timing of your new central compressor station if you could kind of update us on that and also kind of quantify what you think the uptick could be in terms of production on older Marcellus wells.
Okay.
I'm going to let Jeff field that one Chad.
Chad I think at this point we pretty much have taken all the risk out of getting central up and running by midyear or at least Williams has with the receiving of their air-quality permit late last year.
So right now we just have a construction project.
Everything is up there and Williams is pushing forward to get everything going.
In terms of line pressure impact that's hard to engineer at this point and it's difficult to say what the extra 50 pounds or 100-pound reduction in the -- in certain parts of the field will do to the older wells.
So I guess I'm going to avoid  giving you an answer on that part of your question.
And the next question is from Robert Christensen of Buckingham Research Group.
Yes let's look out to the future a little bit and maybe help us understand how you might be marketing your gas.
Is there opportunities to sell it long-term to some of these big independent power plants that are in the region? And is there outlet maybe on the East Coast to export LNG facility that you're contemplating marketing to? Okay.
That's a big question.
We have seen market dynamics change a lot in just 4 years up there of course.
Currently we do have a significant amount of our production that is sold out 5 years and even out 10 years.
And of course we have a 100 000 a day sale that begins in '15 that's out 15 years.
And so we've continued to add to the base of long-term sales commitments.
In terms of demand though we've seen lots of interest particularly when Constitution was announced from the power sector.
They have been very interested in getting gas off the Iroquois Pipeline the Tennessee 200 line and that of course goes into the Boston area and also the Canadian aspect of Constitution connecting to Iroquois and then moving on up to Canada.
So we've been very encouraged by the interest from that perspective.
On the LNG we have taken out some capacity last year and early this year that will enable right now about 75 000 a day of our production to reach Cove Point.
And so we have firm transport in place to -- and are staying on all the short lists for possibility of supplying a significant amount of gas to the export facility there.
But overall we see demand increasing manufacturing the demand increasing new power plants coming on to full retirement aspect.
So from a demand perspective it looks really good in the Northeast.
And our next question is from Joseph Stewart of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but I had one clarification.
Dan in response to a previous question you noted that current well costs are running $6 million to $6.8 million.
Is that based on an 18-frac stage well or how many frac stages are you using there? Well the range is the result of how many -- a variable amount of frac stages Joe.
That's from a 3 500 to a 4 500-foot type of well and however many frac stages we apply to that well.
So I just kind of threw out a -- without having a specific number I'm kind of throwing out a range on what I'm seeing on the AFEs and stuff coming across my desk.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And so we should assume the 200-feet per stage bill on that lateral? Oh yes absolutely.
[Operator Instructions] I'm showing no further questions I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.
Thank you Laura.
I think the questions were very good.
And we've had an opportunity to answer them all.
We look forward to our '13 program and feel very confident that we're going to be able to produce outsized results by year-end '13.
Appreciate it.
Thanks Laura.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Maureen.
I appreciate the introduction and good morning.
Thank you for joining us for this call.
I have a number of our executive management team with me in the room this morning.
Before we start let me say that the standard boilerplate forward-looking statements included in the press release do apply to my comments today.
On the call today we plan to cover several topics: our first quarter 2013 operating and financial results an update on our expectations for all of 2013 followed by an update on operations in the Marcellus Eagle Ford Marmaton and Pearsall.
Before I go into the details on these topics let me first start with the highlights from last night's press release.
For the first quarter of 2013 we produced 89.3 Bcfe an increase of 50% over last year's comparable quarter and 13% over the fourth quarter of '12.
During the quarter we set new quarterly records for production revenue operating cash flows and discretionary cash flows even in light of the relative low realized natural gas price.
We continued to de-risk our acreage position in the Marcellus stepping out our drilling to the Eastern portion a little further than we had previously and these results are very consistent with our initial drilling area.
We also see noteworthy results from our Marmaton program.
Now for the quarter moving into the financial and operational results.
The company reported clean earnings of $54.2 million or $0.26 per share up 90% over last year's comparable quarter.
Discretionary cash flow was $234.4 million up 69% over last year's comparable quarter.
The increases were driven by higher relevant -- excuse me higher equivalent production and to a lesser extent higher realized crude oil prices that more than offset the weaker natural gas prices.
Total per unit cost including financing were down 15% compared to the first quarter of '12 as all operating expense categories decreased on a per unit basis except for transportation and gathering and G&amp;A expenses.
Transportation and gathering expenses were up slightly from additional Marcellus infrastructure expansion while G&amp;A increased due to the company's higher stock price and the resulting mark-to-market for our liability awards.
As I mentioned earlier we had another record quarter for our production.
As anticipated Cabot averaged slightly less than 1 Bcfe per day of total company net production.
Our daily production moved up modestly from this average thus far in the second quarter as well completions continued to add to current production levels.
We still believe that production will be somewhat ranged down until late June when Central compression becomes operational.
This long-anticipated infrastructure addition was originally designed as a primary discharge station into Springville pipeline that goes down to the Transco line.
However combined with our newly installed infrastructure Central will now assume the role of managing overall field pressure while also acting as the primary discharge station to the Constitution Pipeline which is scheduled for March of '15.
In addition to Central we will be seeing incremental new compression and dehydration facilities being commission throughout the remainder of '13 putting us at a total gathering capacity of 2 Bcf per day by the end of the year as planned.
On our guidance last night we reaffirmed our full year equivalent production growth range of 35% to 50% for the year.
Annualizing first quarter daily volumes gets you to the low end of our guidance.
Additionally our cost guidance was also unchanged for the year as was our expected capital program of $950 million to $1.025 billion.
On our hedging in terms of the recent uptick in natural gas prices we like many have utilized the late winter conditions and increasing prices to add to our hedge levels in both '13 and '14.
Today we're about 62% hedged for 2013 based on the midpoint of our guidance with no immediate plans to add additional hedges at this time for '13.
For '14 we have 30 contracts with $300 million collateral -- collared for our natural gas hedges and we'll continue to be opportunistic adding to this position.
Now let's move into the operational side of the business.
In late March we achieved a new 24-hour gross production rate in the Marcellus at a record of 1.054 million cubic foot -- excuse me 1.054 Bcf a day.
During the quarter we turned in line 17 horizontal Marcellus wells.
However most of the wells that were turned in line offset some of our existing production as a result of the field pressure constraints.
As I mentioned before we expect the field pressure constraints to be relieved mid-year when the Central compression station comes online.
Here are a couple of milestones from some of our wells that occurred during the quarter.
We had our first well reach 8 Bcf of cumulative production in just 667 days.
That kind of equates to about a 12 million a day average.
We also had our fastest well -- wells to reach 3 Bcf and 6 Bcf of cumulative production in only 88 days and 270 days respectively.
Also we continue to add additional data points on our acreage position.
And as the press release highlighted we brought on line 2 wells in the quarter towards the east of our acreage and east of our Zick pad that recorded IP rates of over 16 million a day and 22 million a day for a 9-stage well and a 17-stage well respectively.
Our completion efforts continued to improve with a significant uptick in activity during the quarter as highlighted with a 70% increase in completed stages from the first quarter of 2012 and 23% over the fourth quarter level.
We currently have 429 stages completing or cleaning up or waiting to be turned in line along with an additional 279 stages waiting to be completed in the Marcellus.
We are also pleased to announce that our CNG station in Susquehanna became operable during the quarter.
Our CNG initiative will not only result in reduced energy costs for the company but it will certainly allow us to utilize the energy efficiencies and environmental-friendly natural gas.
We currently have 44 fleet vehicles running on natural gas and we are waiting technology to allow our water hauling trucks that have bigger power units in them to afford us the same opportunity.
Operating rigs on natural gas and when extensive pad drilling becomes a reality which will happen towards the end of this year and early in '14 using natural gas to power the completion process will clearly lead to several cost-saving opportunities.
This is just another component of our efficiency program.
On the Marcellus infrastructure we continue to see good progress on the infrastructure program by our midstream partner.
Williams is on schedule with right-of-ways permitting construction and all the ancillary aspects of continuing an ongoing infrastructure build-out.
Recently we had a few questions regarding the timing of our Constitution Pipeline.
And although our actual FERC filing had been delayed a few months we do expect to file a FERC in early June and we'll see no changes in the Constitution in-service date of March 2015.
Now let's move to our South region.
In our South region we continue to hold acreage in the Eagle Ford through our Pearsall drilling.
We had 3 rigs operating in the Pearsall 1 rig has moved back to the Eagle Ford during the quarter and 1 in the Marmaton.
The Pearsall it's still a young play and remains a science project for us much like Marmaton in the early days.
We have a thick column of hydrocarbon and continue to work on all aspects of drilling and completing a cost-effective well.
The matrix porosity in finding the extensive fractures remains an issue as the wells are productive.
But when you look at the rates compared to the costs so far it makes it economically challenging when you compare that to our investment alternatives.
The joint decision with Osaka is to finish up the drilling program as we had planned and as such the plan for the full year is to drill a total of 15 gross horizontal wells in the Pearsall.
Currently we are drilling 3 wells.
Well 3 wells are completing waiting on completion and 9 wells are producing on line.
The 30-day average production rate for the 6 wells that have produced for 30 days or more is over 600 Bcf -- Bcf that'd be great -- 600 BOE per day with an average of 50% oil cut.
We continue to refine the placement of laterals within the formation and try to optimize our completion procedures.
Moving to the Eagle Ford.
We don't have a whole lot to say on the Eagle Ford since we just moved a rig back there during the quarter.
But to date we have 43 wells producing in the Buckhorn area with 3 wells waiting on completion and 1 well currently drilling.
While we've had limited activity as I mentioned in the Eagle Ford due to the Pearsall effort our last 4 wells produced at an average 24-hour rate of over 650 barrels of oil equivalent per day with an oil cap of approximately 90%.
During the quarter we drilled our longest lateral to date in the Eagle Ford at 8 200 feet.
The well was completed with 30 stages and is still in the early early stages of flowback.
However it is already providing oil rates above the field average IP.
It's good data but still very early.
In the Marmaton during the quarter we completed 5 wells with an average of 21 stages per well.
We keep gaining efficiencies there.
These wells averaged an initial production rate of over 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
So we continue to be very pleased with our operation the growth generated from our assets and progress we're making on a number of fronts.
The Marcellus continues to deliver outstanding results and efficiency enhancements are just around the corner as we continue our planning for full pad development.
The Marmaton cost reductions and well results are materially better and work in progress in the Pearsall continues with more easy drilling on the horizon.
With over -- with the overall macro environment the natural gas improving which includes future natural gas demand expectations and our expanding production base I think we are certainly in an excellent position to continue to deliver significant value to our shareholders.
With those brief comments Maureen I'll be more than happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is Amir Arif from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Couple of quick questions.
One can you just tell me what was your backlog of completions at the start of '13 and where you think that's going to be at the end of '13? So our backlog are you talking about just Marcellus? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes just Marcellus.
Yes.
Our backlog stays relative consistent throughout.
If you look at the say 5 rigs running and we have several wells a couple either 2 or 3 wells on each pad at this time and we're drilling a little bit longer laterals and we are -- reduced our spacing on frac stages for our '13 program we will continue to have oh about 500 to 750 stages in the queue if you will just waiting for the rig to move off location and the frac crew to get lined up and scheduled to move on those locations that the rig moved off.
So Amir it's a similar number as we have right now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's not really -- it's not being constrained because of the compression or dehy it's more just getting the frac crews out.
Is that the first step? Yes it is just the operational logistics out in the field.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a second question if you can give any color on what your thoughts are on the free cash flow used as you start up in '14? Well we have had a number of questions in regard to that and we're certainly again cognizant of the fact of the excellent returns that we get from the Marcellus.
So -- in fact we had a slide in our investor presentation that kind of outlines various different options.
But when you look at a primary consideration and the most value creation it would be to enhance our Marcellus capital contribution and expand that program in a material way.
But we also look at either dividend increase special dividend share buybacks and -- but the free cash that we anticipate of any material sense will begin in earnest in 2014.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it still sounds like you're leaning more towards accelerating activity.
So is that a decision still to firm up in the second half? Well yes.
Yes it is.
It's a decision and a conversation that we continuously have internally.
And we also have ongoing work with the North region in looking at what is possible and still be able to maintain our level of [indiscernible].
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one final quick question.
In the Reilly pad have you drilled wells out there yet or are you step -- or you're just totally stepping out in that direction? Yes we've drilled wells but we do not yet have the pipeline hooked up to that pad location.
We are -- I can't tell you the exact status of that particular pipeline but the expectation is early part of third quarter we ought to have a pipeline out there.
Our next question is from Pearce Hammond Simmons Company.
Research Division</strong> Dan just following up on the prior questioner.
Given the jump in gas prices do you foresee any -- a change in activity for this year or maybe pursuing that very large well pad? Well Pearce we have all been blessed with an uptick in the natural gas price.
And when we have in our initial plan in our operation moving into '13 we thought about not only having one completion crew but we had explored the opportunity early in the year actually towards the end of '12 of having a second completion crew in the field for a short period of time to just take care of some spread-out wells that we had on a waiting-on-completion status.
After we saw the -- towards the March period of time we saw the opportunity for maybe a little bit higher gas prices.
We have maintained that completion crew working for us and that was one of the catalysts that increased the number of stages that we are able to deliver 70% over the first quarter of '12 and a significant percentage over the last quarter of '12 also.
So we're looking at just how we keep that extra completion crew going as an option.
And we also have discussions ongoing to determine when we might want to bring a sixth rig into the field to start drilling off a given pad.
It does not necessarily move up in the queue the extensive pad drilling or pure pad drilling.
What it does do though it moves it up in theory because the rig -- the sixth rig we moved back in location will be capturing primary term acreage sooner which would as a result allow us to start pad drilling sooner.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then have you noticed any changes in service costs or just general service capacity in the Marcellus here recently with the uptick in gas prices? No we haven't.
But keep in mind the largest component of our cost out there are rigs and completion crews.
And we are in kind of a unique area of the Marcellus out there.
And that equipment out there is going to be in that area and we think we get good pricing.
We have a long-term contract on one of the crews and we're using another as a spot crew.
But we have not seen any increases in prices at this stage.
Our next question is from Abhi Sinha Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Basically I'm just filling for Doug Leggate here.
So -- an overall question I'm just trying to see by when would you be done with down-spacing testing in the Marcellus and developed optimizations to shift gears to full development mode? Well in the Marcellus we have remained spaced at a 1 000 foot between the majority of the wells we've drilled.
We have drilled several of the Upper Marcellus wells that were staggering in between the Lower Marcellus wells at about 500 feet.
Once we get on a full pad development we are going to experiment with down-spacing the wells to see what might be the most effective and efficient spacing in the field.
And I'm sorry I didn't get the latter part of your question Abhi.
Research Division</strong> The same thing as to well optimization queue.
Like when would you be done with down-spacing and well optimization when you're talking about different lateral lengths.
Yes.
And again the timing of this will be once we circle a rig back around to do the extensive pad drilling which would be towards the latter part -- beginning the latter part of '13 or the beginning of '14.
And keep in mind once we put a rig on location and say we're going to drill 10 12 14 wells say we drill 10 wells you're going to be -- you're going to have that rig on location for a good period of time before you can come back in and complete the -- each well.
So we're excited to move in that direction.
And we have extensive study ongoing to allow us to cut costs in a material way once we get to pad drilling.
Research Division</strong> Could you give us a sense of like on how much of your acreage in the Marcellus will have a little bit prospective for Upper Marcellus? How much is prospective for the Upper Marcellus? Research Division</strong> Yes sir.
Well we think we have Upper Marcellus across all of our acreage in the -- in Susquehanna as you move to the very north end of our acreage.
And the entire section thins from 350 plus or minus in the middle part to the northern part to about a gross interval of 250 feet.
We would look at those particular wells in a stand-alone case to determine in today's return environment that we're trying to achieve whether or not our capital dollar is going to be spent there today or down the road to compete with the significant returns we're getting in the rest of the area.
And Scott correct me I think I -- I think I said northeast.
I should have said northwest in our area where we have about 10% of our acreage up there that we'd be looking at as Lower Marcellus completions but still going to have a science project on the Upper Marcellus completions.
Our next question is from Gil Yang DISCERN.
Inc</strong> The couple of wells that you drilled that you said was east of  [indiscernible] pad were -- is there -- the 16.3 on 9 stages versus the 22.2 on 17 stages could you characterize the difference in a per stage volume? Is there a rock quality issue? Or is there a production engineering issue or a constriction sort of issue that would account for those differences in performance? Well each stage I think the average on one is 1.3 million a day and the average on the other is 1.8 million a day.
It might be -- Gil it might be just the immediate connectivity to the fractures in a particular area maybe several stages maybe all the stages.
But that delta for us does not -- we don't have the ability to discern that level of difference between the wells.
But certainly each of the wells on a per stage basis actually on average is a little bit higher than our entire field.
Inc</strong> Okay.
Great.
The issue of pad drilling drilling a dozen or so wells from 1 pad in the future can you talk about -- given that your wells when they come on so strongly you're already knocking off existing wells off of the -- in terms of production.
If you bring on a dozen wells at the same time so to speak how will the cost savings of sitting on a pad versus issues surrounding knocking nearby wells off line repeatedly play out? And then does it require upsiding infrastructure that could increase costs? Yes.
And I'll chuck the ball to Jeff to respond to you after my brief comments.
But we have a high expectation of significant volumes coming from a fully developed pad site as you might suspect.
We have been discussing exactly your question with Williams for an extended period of time.
And through those discussions as we develop the infrastructure as we continue to look at all the options that we can create in the field with the locations of compressors dehys for example the Central compressor we are taking into consideration the expectation of high rates off a pad site and our ability to have the longer-producing wells that have lower pressure to remain producing.
And I'll let Jeff fill in the blanks.
Well a few more blanks but Dan did a good job because we have been working on this for 18 24 months with Williams doing the hydraulic engineering necessary to make sure these pads are able to produce at 100% plus capture some of the older wells at the same time.
And we're basically doing that with more compression and larger diameter pipe and moving the pipelines and additional paths into Tennessee new stations.
And it's the whole ball of wax of activity that we're out there doing today to bring the capacity to the 2 Bcf level by the end of this year.
But there's a lot of hidden projects.
In fact we have no less than 60 projects going on to facilitate the pads when we get to that point.
They won't be all over the system so it's a massive undertaking.
But we have -- I think we have a very good plan in place to address the pad completions.
Inc</strong> And then presumably the drilling cost savings outweighs the extra cost of the infrastructure you're putting in place? Well the infrastructure in place is 100% Williams' cost and we have a transportation fee that is netted basically from our gross price.
Our next question is Matt Portillo Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a few quick questions from me.
I was hoping that you could give us a little color on your production constraints to date.
You mentioned that some of the wells are being produced at a constrained rate or they're getting knocked off from pressure.
So just curious if you could kind of quantify that for us.
And then as you get some of the compression facilities on in June I was hoping to get a little bit of color on how that could potentially affect your gross volumes in the Marcellus heading into the back half of this year.
Okay.
On the first question on the production constraints and again it's just -- Matt physiologically if you look at the higher rates coming on and to your question knocking off the other wells the line pressure in the field has remained high.
We I think are still free-flowing even some of our gas directly into the pipelines not going through compression at this time.
But with our relatively high line pressure already and the wells producing into that when we bring on and have brought on some of these other wells we might increase our line pressure anywhere from 100 to 150 pounds.
And obviously that delta inhibits the same flow from those existing wells.
I can't really put an amount on the amount that we knock off.
I mean it would be a simple math project.
I don't have it.
Say a well was producing 5 million a day.
And you brought on a 20-million-a-day well instead of netting 25 million out of it you might be netting 23 million or 21 million.
I don't know something to that effect.
But I really Matt don't have the number at my fingertips.
And your question on the compression facilities was what exactly? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just as compression comes on stream could you give us I guess a bit of color on how that could potentially allow you to see an uplift in your volume? So I'm just trying to get a better sense of if you're producing about 1 B a day of gross production in the Marcellus how does that production that compression coming on stream help change that trajectory in the back half of this year? Well -- and there's 2 components for that.
One is the Central station that is going to allow us to reduce the majority of our field line pressures.
And so we may see an enhancement to our production as a result of just going from 800 or 900 pounds to whatever we can lower the line pressure to reducing that 100 200 pounds or whatever we might be able to achieve.
So we think we might be able to see something from that.
And as we put ongoing compression and dehy in strategic spots in the field in those immediate areas we're certainly going to allow each of the wells to produce into a lower line pressure than you might if we didn't have those compressors in that area.
Jeff I don't know if you want to add anything else.
One last comment.
The other factor that is involved here is that as we build up the infrastructure to the extremities of the acreage position the older wells are naturally located closer to some of the compressor stations.
And so the extensions of the pipeline going out to the newer wells is naturally bound to happen that the newer wells are going to push back some of the older wells off line until we get the line pressure issue corrected throughout the system.
So that's something that all producers face as they start in 1 area and build out throughout their acreage positions.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on -- switching gears quickly to the Pearsall.
With the wells you have onstream today could you guys give us I guess an idea of how you think about kind of EURs there? And then also on the updated Marmaton wells just kind of curious how you guys are thinking about the EURs on those wells as well.
Well first I'll start with the Marmaton.
The Marmaton is a -- we've seen some really good results in the Marmaton.
And it's looking like between our if you will shorter laterals versus our extended laterals it looks like that we can get maybe a 50% increase in our EUR to be up in the 230 or higher range.
We don't have a number of those wells producing long enough to where I could -- I can lock in that EUR.
But we are very pleased with what we were seeing in the Marmaton.
In the Pearsall still early to tell on the Pearsall because we have tried so many different things whether it be the landing point -- and this is different from what we are doing in the Marmaton whether it be the landing point where we're drilling the wells or whether it be drilled in the deposition much further north in our -- in the deposition which is more oily or further south in the deposition which is more gas liquids attached to the further south along with the different techniques that we're applying to the completion.
So to give a range of EURs in the Pearsall I'm just reluctant to do right now because of all the variability.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question just maybe a little bit more color on the rig count for the Marcellus.
Could you give us I guess some color on timing of when you hope to get your sixth rig in place? And then is it reasonable to think in 2014 that you may be able to accelerate to an 8-rig count? Or is that a little too early to tell just given the constraints you've seen? Yes.
Thank you Matt.
Well the rig count at the Marcellus what we've been looking at is one I mentioned the efficiencies and making sure we can maintain the efficiencies and consistency of our program.
And some of that involves just clearing the locations for a rig on a consistent basis.
It looks like it includes the scheduling of the completion.
So we won't have stranded dollars out there any longer than we have to.
It has -- also has the coordination with Williams on getting the gathering lines to the locations if we move our program up a little bit and looking at all the aspects of that.
But what we're looking at is possibly towards the early fall.
We might be bringing in a rig a sixth rig to the Marcellus.
And in regard to '14 still early to tell definitively what we might do in '14.
We've been very pleased with the uptick in the gas prices through this shoulder period.
We have some collars in place that protect us on some volumes on the downside into '14 now.
So we are looking at what we might be able to do on our program expansion for our '14 period but a little bit early to say whether or not we'd go to 7 rigs or 8 rigs.
Our next question is Bob Brackett Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A question on the Pearsall program.
Those 15 gross wells can you talk about your out-of-pocket costs sort of net of the drilling carries? And where will you be at the end of the year in terms of drilling carries from Osaka? Well we will -- we have an expense interest in the wells that we've drilled so far and the wells that we will drill between now and the remainder of the year.
We have a 9.75% expense interest in those wells.
Our next question is Louis Baltimore Macquarie.
Yes.
It looks like you're starting to move south into Wyoming County where some other operators have drilled some very productive Marcellus wells.
And I was just wondering if you could comment on what you've been seeing from your wells down there and how big your position is.
Well we include in Wyoming County the acreage that's directionally towards say Citrus acreage which has the other top 5 of 20 wells in 2012 and Cabot has the other 15.
But we like that acreage and we do not anticipate any difference in that acreage down there than we see we're drilling right now.
Our next question is Gordon Douthat Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question on the eastern side of your acreage in the Marcellus.
How do you anticipate the delineation of that? Obviously you're dependent on infrastructure but how do you foresee that proceeding over the coming quarters and years? Well once we get our infrastructure build-out going in that direction and it be material sized to where we would allocate the rig and completion crews over there to be able to monetize that investment we do not see any change in how we proceed with the eastern acreage than what we're developing right now.
It'd just be a natural extension as we grow from where we started drilling and started our infrastructure as we grow out to -- towards the east.
LLC Research Division</strong> And it looks as if you've got a number of things coming from the infrastructure standpoint later this year.
Is that directed towards the eastern side of the acreage? Or any comments you can make as far as the timing of the infrastructure build-out as you move east? Yes I'll let Jeff field that Gordon.
Okay.
I think if I heard you correctly the -- well let me just start by saying that on the Zick area in the eastern side it's probably where we are best positioned with excess capacity.
So for example when we talk about today we have about 1.4 Bcf a day of capacity throughout the system it's only in the Zick area and maybe a little bit to the north in the Hawley area that we do have excess capacity.
So that's a good thing.
And one of the -- we mentioned some smaller projects in the press release.
It's actually in the Zick area.
It's the second phase of a larger project that is giving us some additional compression on the east side around Zick.
And so again that's a very good thing.
So we feel real good about the eastern side in terms of capacities going forward.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then last question for me.
Last night in the press release there was a comment about looking for ways to further extract value from your underappreciated assets.
So just wondering if you could provide any color on your thought process to what that -- what's behind that comment.
Well we have the -- and that comment was kind of directed towards our Marmaton.
And what we're seeing there is -- are good results good returns.
And we're not actively marketing our Marmaton at this stage.
But if in fact it would be a -- if a transaction was to be had we would certainly look at the Marmaton as an area that we would consider and utilize those dollars to enhance some of the other areas of our operation.
And again let me emphasize we're not actively marketing the Marmaton.
But being underappreciated is really simply the fact that 90% of oil in those wells and the well costs 3 million to 4 million depending on the lateral lengths and number of stages it's delivering very good rate of returns.
Our next question is Biju Perincheril from Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on your takeaway capacity out to date of the Marcellus? And...
I'm sorry.
Biju I can't hear you real well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us an update on your takeaway capacity out of Marcellus today? And any new projects or incremental capacity coming on until the Constitution? Yes.
Biju that is a question that's directly up Jeff's alley.
Thanks for the question.
Just to be clear when some people talk about takeaway they talk about the downstream interstate pipeline capacities that were utilized into marketing our gas.
So I'm assuming that is your question and not necessarily the infrastructure? Inc.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
It's -- yes.
It's interstate pipelines right not the gathering systems.
Okay.
So currently we are producing -- this is raw numbers in the Marcellus the Bcf.
And about approximately 500 000 of that goes down to Transco.
And 400 000 and some change stays on Tennessee Gas Pipeline.
And the remainder heads up to Millenium Pipeline.
So as you know we've been blessed with 3 very large interstate pipeline markets within 30 miles of our fields in either direction.
So it's a great place to start.
It's a huge advantage.
But as far as firm capacity contracts we own just shy of 400 000 a day of FT ourselves.
And those firm contracts take gas out of Susquehanna County to different market areas in fact as far over in East Ohio area and throughout Pennsylvania and into the east.
We actually have over 100 000 a day capacity that goes -- it leaves Susquehanna County and goes into the Boston area.
We do however have a lot of long-term contracts where we use sales contracts where we use other people's firm to move our gas.
And that's predominantly down on the Transco pipeline.
So we feel like we're in a pretty good shape with long-term contracts using other people's firms and the firm that we own ourselves.
That's really been a huge advantage to date.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if you're talking about adding -- going to 6 or 7 8 rigs eventually I guess that would largely mean using your customers' firm capacity to move gas.
Is that...
That will always be part of all producers in the Marcellus package of opportunities.
Because if you think about it the firm contracts the historic firm contracts are all owned by the marketplace the LDCs throughout New England and even in the New York area and down to the Baltimore and Washington D.C.
area.
And what the producers have done is we've taken out a lot of backhaul contracts and moved gas to the opposite direction that the utility uses.
But utilities will always be a huge part of our business with -- because they own the original transportation whether it's 4 5 6 Bcf a day of capacity.
Now some of the nuances has been the expansions.
As you know the [indiscernible] expansion is going to take 600 000 to 700 000 a day down to the Carolinas.
We have a role in that.
We have a role in Columbia expansion into the D.C.
and Baltimore area.
And of course we have Constitution Pipeline that's going to move 0.5 Bcf a day at Cabot Marcellus gas in 2015 into 3 new interstate markets.
So at the end of the day we will have our gas positioned to deliver into 6 very large diameter state pipeline market areas.
And that's been our plan for 2 years now and we think it's a very solid plan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And the Springville system that's moving gas down to Transco is that at full utilization now? Or is there room to expand that? If -- okay.
So it's a 24-inch high-pressure pipeline and we're moving in excess of 0.5 Bcf a day down that pipe.
We will have to -- there are plans to add a little bit more horsepower so that we can get up to around the 600 level.
But basically that's the extent of that pipe unless it's looped or some other enhancements may be made to it.
Our next question is Brian Singer Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Three small questions under the context of thinking about capital allocation with a potential sixth rig.
First is you've talked in the past about trying to making sure you get your drilling plan sometimes even 2 years ahead to your key midstream providers.
What is the lead time you feel like is needed to ensure reliability? And what's the risk around it all kind of being ready as you talked about earlier for a sixth rig potentially 3 or 4 months away? I guess that's question one.
Question two is just making sure whether the sixth rig for a portion of the year is in your CapEx budget or not and if you're seeing any efficiencies that would offset that.
And then question three would just be how you're thinking about dividends or returning cash to shareholders in the context of a sixth rig and higher gas prices.
Okay.
Well on the -- the risk of planning is low -- excuse me let me say that differently.
We have planned to add our additional rigs additional activity to our program.
And as we have stated we are actually working on 2015 with Williams as we speak.
So the risk of getting things lined up is -- and implementing a plan that would allow us to utilize -- fully utilize a sixth rig is fairly low.
What I'd be referring to on getting all the bells and whistles and ducks in a row for a sixth rig is just to confirm that we will be able to have the right people in place and we will utilize our in-house folks GDS that handles a great deal of our operations not only the water hauling aspects but road building and location building aspects of it just to make sure we can get ahead of it in all just the nuts and bolts of the front-end work to move a rig on Brian.
But in the permitting side of it we have -- I don't have a high degree of risk on the permitting side.
The North region has been great at staying ahead of their permit request over and above the budgeted programs say 85 wells that we have budgeted this year.
So I feel good about that and would not think that regulatory issues would get in the way.
A sixth rig has not been budgeted in our program at this stage.
We might have had anticipation of maybe a very short time in December or something bringing in the sixth rig.
But for all intents and purposes a sixth rig has not been budgeted in the programming.
What was your last question Brian? Research Division</strong> Dividends.
Oh dividends.
Scott wanted to answer that one.
Brian in terms of -- clearly the priority in -- as we approach this higher level of free cash flow is to explore accelerating the reinvestment in the Marcellus.
We haven't gone much farther on terms of a special dividend increasing the dividend yield or a buyback at this point in time.
Again that -- as Dan said earlier that's more of a '14 decision.
We have spent some time with some experts in terms of the impact accretive dilutive best course of action.
And quite honestly on all 3 of them based on where we're at they kind of came to the decision that it was -- and again not ho-hum but it didn't have the impact that it can have in some other applications because of the opportunity set related to the reinvestment back in the business particularly the Marcellus.
So haven't made a final decision.
And again we'll kind of see as we flush out the '14 plan and the anticipation of free cash flow together with anything else we do before we come to a final decision on dividends.
Having no further questions this concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Thanks Maureen and thanks everybody for spending their time on this conference call.
We're very optimistic.
We see a lot in the marketplace that is directing our attention to future demand for natural gas.
I think we've said before that we know we have supply out there.
We need to enhance the demand.
And all the ancillary areas that I spend time looking at I'm fairly excited about the increased demand that we're going to have in natural gas down the road.
Again I appreciate it and look forward to the visit on the second quarter conference call.
Thanks.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation's Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Andrew and thank you all for joining us on this call.
I have our executive team gathered here in the room with me and they'll be prepared to answer any questions the group might have.
Before we get started let me say that the standard boilerplate language and forward-looking statements included in the press release do apply to my comments today.
I plan to be brief with my comments regarding our operations discussion.
However in light of the many questions that we have received and the many media articles and speculative comments over regional basis differentials we're going to change our typical approach to this call in order to discuss our marketing efforts in the Marcellus.
We have posted a presentation titled Marcellus Marketing Supplementary Materials to our website which can be found under the Presentations section of our website.
We plan on talking about this material later in the call and it will frame the majority of the discussion today.
However before we jump into that discussion let me first discuss a few of the highlights of this past quarter which happens to be the best quarter in Cabot's history both operationally and financially.
For the quarter we grew production 52% over the second quarter of last year to a record 95.2 Bcfe which equates to 1.046 Bcf per day of total company net production.
Most of that growth was driven by our operations in the Marcellus where the current gross production rate is approximately 1.2 Bcf per day.
The recent jump in gross Marcellus production to over the 1.2 Bcf per day is a result of several new wells turned in line in addition to the commissioning of the Central compressor station in late June.
The commissioning of Central had a very minimal impact on our second quarter results as it was not fully operational.
We have witnessed a production gain of approximately 100 million to 150 million per day of gross production from existing wells as the station is served to lower line pressure in the western side of our acreage position.
As I mentioned earlier this was also Cabot's best quarter financially.
We booked record net income and discretionary cash flows during the second quarter which represented an increases of 148% and 109% respectively relative to the comparable quarter last year.
As we announced in the press release last night we have made the decision to add a sixth rig in the Marcellus which will spud its first well next month.
As a result of bringing in this sixth rig and the efficiency gains in our program we have increased our total capital spending guidance range for the year to $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion.
We also tightened the range on our 2013 production growth guidance and increased both the bottom end and top end of the range going from a 35% to 50% range to a 44% to 54% range.
However I would like to remind everyone that the addition of the sixth rig will have no impact on 2013 production as these wells would not be turned in line until next year.
However it certainly will give us a jump start for 2014.
With that I would like to move into our discussion on the marketing efforts in the Marcellus.
Our marketing efforts and the regional basis differential have been the primary source of questions since our last call.
I'll use the supplementary slides that I've referred to and that we've posted to the website as a framework for my next comments.
On Slide 1 of the posted handout is our overall strategy for marketing our Marcellus gas.
Our original objective was to diversify with multiple pipeline outlets to enhance our ability to move gas out of the basin to multiple markets while also mitigating our exposure to price volatility in regional differentials through our hedging program.
To accomplish this we have pursued many different avenues including: diversifying all multiple pipelines; firm transportation agreements; long-term sales agreements that's our firm sales; investing in new projects like the Constitution Pipeline; and opportunistically hedging a portion of our production.
All of this provides us diverse opportunities to maximize the value of this tremendous resource.
Slide 2 is a map of the interstate pipeline markets where we currently deliver our gas which is into 3 different pipelines: the Tennessee 300 line the Transco line and the Millennium line.
With the addition of the Constitution Pipeline in March of '15 we will be adding the Iroquois line the Tennessee 200 line and the TransCanada pipeline via the Iroquois line to the list as well which would give us a total of 6.
At this time we certainly are fortunate to have access to 3 large interstate pipeline systems that all serve different market areas.
It should also be noted that all 3 of the pipelines we currently deliver our gas to recently completed expansion projects and publicly announced expansion plans in the future further expanding our marketing opportunities.
I would also like to point out that as most of you are already aware the FERC application for Constitution Pipeline was filed during the second quarter and in-service is scheduled for March 31 of 2015.
We continue to feel extremely confident about the project getting completed on time.
Now let's move to Slide 3 which addresses our current and forecasted volumes of firm transportation contracts and long-term sales contracts.
The terms of these agreements are bound by confidentiality agreements.
Also note that these volumes are as of today will change going forward as our marketing group continues to analyze future opportunities for Cabot.
As a quick refresher on this topic contracted sales volume under our firm transportation agreements are the quantities we have reserved space bar on a given interstate pipeline and allows us to ship gas without interruption.
Contrary our long-term contracted sales volumes are the volumes we have secured under a long-term sales agreement ranging from 8-to-15 years in length.
Keep in mind though we also have shorter-term deals which when combined with these long-term arrangements cover over 80% of our anticipated gas volumes for 2013.
For all these volumes the gas is shipped under our -- for the long-term contracted sales volumes the gas is shipped under our customers' firm transportation agreements since many of our customers have owned the firm capacity on these pipelines since their inception.
With regard to Cabot's firm transportation agreements we currently hold 325 million per day of firm transportation and will add an additional 500 million per day of Cabot's firm transportation in early 2015 with the Constitution Pipeline.
We also have an additional 50 million per day beginning in late '15 for a total of 875 million per day by the end of 2015.
Additionally we are in the process of negotiating select long-term firm transportation agreements that would begin late this year and would essentially increase our total firm transportation to 1 Bcf per day by the end of '15.
Just to reiterate in addition to our short-term sales agreements we also currently have in place fully executed long-term sales agreements for over 600 million cubic foot per day of firm sales that range from as I mentioned a minimum of 8 years to 15 years in duration.
All of these short-term and long-term sales volumes will utilize customers' firm transportation agreements and are mutually exclusive from the firm transportation volumes mentioned previously that rely on Cabot's firm transportation agreements.
These agreements significantly reduce our exposure to basis differentials.
We are very excited that these long-term contracts will complement Cabot's firm transportation strategy in the years to come and we continue to look to grow these volumes over time.
We believe our marketing team with the relationships they have developed in the Appalachia region coupled with being the first mover in the Northeast Pennsylvania area has positioned us well as we continue to grow our production at record rates.
Also our continued commitment to growing production in the region due to the quality of our assets and our ability to recognize -- realize high rate of return even in low natural gas price environment has provided a surety of supply that many of our customers require.
As a result between our firm transportation contracts and our short-term and long-term sales contracts the future demand requirements that we see and our relationships in the region we are very confident and comfortable about our ability to market our growing production as we move forward.
Moving to Slide 4 which lays out our interstate delivery capacity including compression and dehydration infrastructure.
We are on pace to reach 2.2 Bcf per day of gross interstate delivery capacity by the end of this year up from our previously announced 2 Bcf per day.
We have increased our 2014 total capacity from 2.9 Bcf per day to 3.4 Bcf per day.
By the end of 2015 we expect to reach 3.7 Bcf per day of capacity.
I would like to remind everyone that these are gross capacity volumes and are not indicative of anticipated production volumes as we continue to focus our drilling program on the near term by capturing acreage and we will certainly be drilling in areas where there is a lack of infrastructure at this current time.
Slide 5 focuses on our unhedged realized pricing for natural gas in the Marcellus.
There have been a lot of questions recently relating to basis differentials in the region and what the corresponding pricing is so we have laid out the percentage splits of how we currently market our gas and price our gas.
As we -- as you can see the majority of our gas about 2/3 is priced off the last day settle of NYMEX contract.
The remaining production is primarily split between Columbia and Dominion indices.
The Columbia indices has remained relatively strong and basically flat with NYMEX while the Dominion has shown some weakness over the past month or so.
Of the 19% we index off of Dominion approximately 70% of those volumes are hedged through the remainder of 2013.
As a result we feel we have limited exposure in the near term if basis continues to remain soft for this index.
For first quarter one second quarter -- for first quarter and second quarter in aggregate we sold our Marcellus gas approximately flat to NYMEX on an Mcf pre-hedged basis.
The concern has been over recent pricing so we have also laid out our July realizations.
You will notice that July was in fact relatively softer as we realized $0.15 per Mcf less than NYMEX for the month on a pre-hedged basis which is lower than our year-to-date spread.
For the remainder of the year we are forecasting a differential of approximately $0.10 to $0.15 per Mcf less than NYMEX.
However as pipeline additions come online in the back half of the year and winter weather materializes these numbers could easily revert to what we had historically realized.
I would also like to point out that even assuming a 10% to 15% differential at current prices our typical Marcellus well defined as a 14 Bcf average provides a 120% return.
Slide 6 is a recap of our current hedge position.
We have about 750 million per day hedged for the remainder of the year at a floor of $3.75 and approximately 450 million a day hedged for '14 at a floor of $4.10 all aligned with Marcellus gas production.
We will continue to opportunistically add hedges for '14.
These slides should fully explain our marketing efforts and hopefully have answered all or the majority of the questions anybody may have.
We believe that our current marketing strategy including our hedging program has us well positioned for continued success even in the face of commodity price and basis volatility.
Now let's move on to some of the operational highlights for the quarter.
In the Marcellus we continue to see stellar well results across our acreage position.
As I mentioned earlier we are currently producing about 1.2 Bcf per day gross from only 226 horizontal wells.
During the quarter we turned in line 23 wells and currently have a backlog of 37 wells or 781 stages either waiting on completion -- completing or waiting on pipeline.
As for individual wells in last night's release we highlighted step-outs from our Zick area including a 2-well pad to the Northeast with 27 stages and had an IP of 34.8 million a day and a 30-day average of 28.1 million a day.
We had another 2-well pad to the north of the Zick area.
That was completed with 37 stages and had an IP of 51 million per day and an average of 30 -- a 30-day average of 43.6 million a day.
During the quarter we also achieved and saw our fastest well to 5 Bcf of accumulative production and that happened in 157 days.
We also realized our fastest well to 7 Bcf of accumulative production and that happened in less than a year at 358 days.
Our team in Pennsylvania continues to drive the efficiency gains in our Marcellus program which is further evidenced by a reduction in average drilling days and that is spud to total depth from 16 days in '12 to 14 days in the second quarter of '13.
And that's despite drilling longer laterals in the second quarter of '13.
We also achieved a new record on the completion side by completing 9 stages in a 24-hour period with 1 frac crew.
They're doing a very good job.
Additionally we have previously announced we ran our first-ever frac pump off line gas directly from the field and continue to implement the use of CNG in our operations which we think will further drive down drilling and completion costs as we move forward.
Now let me move to a brief comment in the south and in our operations in the Eagle Ford.
We currently have 1 rig operating in the play.
We will drop a Pearsall rig and add a rig to the Eagle Ford at the end of this month which is the level we expect to maintain for the remainder of the year.
The second rig will be a walking rig and will focus solely on pad drilling efforts which will consist of 4-to-6 wells per pad.
As a reminder we currently have 50 wells producing in our Buckhorn area and have approximately 500 net identified locations remaining in that area which implies over a decade's worth of drilling opportunities assuming a 2-rig drilling program.
As far as the Pearsall in the third quarter we will end the drilling at -- in the Pearsall for our 2013 time period.
As planned and discussed in the previous call we will monitor the production from these wells continue to watch industry activity for the end of the year.
A brief comment in the Marmaton that we will be slowing down our operations there with us moving the rig to the Eagle Ford.
And we will also go -- continue to maintain our acreage position up there if it in fact entails additional drilling or extensions.
Our team in the south region continues to focus their efforts on improving our well performance in the Eagle Ford and driving down well cost further.
As the release highlighted -- and it's worth repeating -- our last 6 producing wells in the Eagle Ford had averaged a 24-hour peak rate of 900 barrels BOE per day and our Eagle Ford area is about 90% oil.
And that well -- those 6 wells had a 30-day average rate of approximately 570 BOE per day which is outperforming our average type curve.
In terms of size we also released information on our first extended lateral well in the Eagle Ford which had a lateral length of 8 000 feet and a 24-hour peak rate of approximately 1 130 BOE per day again 90% oil.
Equally impressive however is the fact that the well held up well and is currently producing about 1 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day after 120 days.
We have also made significant steps in our operational efficiencies in the play by reducing average drilling days in the Eagle Ford from 15 days in '12 to approximately 9 days in the second quarter in '13.
We continue to work on driving well costs and anticipate the move to pad drilling will reduce Eagle Ford well costs by $500 000 to $600 000 per well all very positive news for our Eagle Ford program as we continue to focus on accelerating value in this play going forward through operational efficiencies.
However I would like to point out that as a result of our pad drilling initiatives in the Eagle Ford and the associated increase in the spud-to-sale timing because we're drilling pad wells -- they'll sit there longer -- we are slightly lowering our liquids production growth guidance for the year.
So in summary we continue to be very pleased with our progress operations progress the growth generated from our assets the efficiency gains et cetera.
These results delivered the best quarter in Cabot's history and we feel like the best is yet to come.
Our confidence in the future is evidenced by the announced stock split and the 100% increase in dividends.
Andrew with those brief comments I'll be happy to take any questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Appreciate the color with regards to the basis differentials in your comments and the -- in your contracts.
When you put your firm transport and your long-term sales contracts together and look at it in 2015 how if at all would your exposure to the 65% NYMEX 30% local hubs that we see in 2013 -- you detail on Slide 5 -- change? Do you expect a meaningful shift in that split? No.
Research Division</strong> And so then I guess the question -- the follow-up question then would be what is the current market like to sign NYMEX-linked agreements? Because the worry by others -- or the worry by some would be that for incremental contract signs that would have to be or will stay at a discount to NYMEX.
Okay I will pass that baton to Jeff Hutton.
You're exactly right in today's environment would not be ideal to be signing long-term agreements.
We expect that environment to obviously improve.
We think this it is just a temporary glitch.
The majority of our contracts were signed -- I'm not going to disclose weeks months years whatever -- a while back.
We've only had one small long-term contract we've entered into recently and it was one that was negotiated for a number of months.
And the pricing never changed on it.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly as you've seen your production grow since Central compression has come on or since the end of the quarter can you just talk about how recent growth in the Marcellus -- how much of that has been because of favorable line pressures that have come as a result to bringing Central compression on the tying in of new wells or just better well performance and really trying to isolate whether you've seen an improvement in well performance or whether the recent increase in -- the very recent increase in production is more to just the timing of some of these midstream and completion factors? So we have felt good about the -- what we've seen on Central.
Keep in mind Central is still in the start-up phase.
In my opinion we have -- we've done a great job.
And certainly Williams has done a great job in getting a very complicated infrastructure system up running and in place.
But as any big operational project we have ups and downs and starting at different times -- starting and stopping at different times.
And we also have -- as part of the turbine process at Central we have 3 re-sips at Central also.
So when you look at the area of our current production let's take the gross 1.2 Bcf Central does not touch all of that.
But when you look at the impact we think we have seen early stage and the results of just Central and not of new production we think it has been a plus or minus 15% positive effect on existing wells.
The next question comes from Abhi Sinha of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm standing here for Doug Leggate.
Just want to -- a quick one.
So now you have added a sixth rig early on in the Marcellus.
So we wanted to see like what stack really actually looks like in 2014 or in the outer years.
And the follow-up will be like where do we see the activity levels ultimately going up given you have step-up in the cash flow? Well as far as the rig count is concerned we haven't given any guidance out beyond '13 at this time.
We'll get more color at our next conference call in October.
But our tentative plan at this stage would be to add another rig to have 7 rigs running in the field in '14.
And certainly with the growth that we see out in front of us right now we are quite optimistic and positive about continuing our story out in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And just again in the Marcellus how far you think you're away from being in full pad development mode? And would you have like 500 feet spacing and all developing forward? Well as we were still moving the rigs around in the field capturing primary term acreage so we have not gotten to the stage yet where we have gone and can go into full development mode.
We do anticipate in '14 to have some rig activity on pads to implement pad development.
But some of our rigs also in '14 will continue to capture acreage.
Full pad development will move out towards '15 when we can start talking about maybe all of our activity being on pad drilling.
And as far as the spacing is concerned we will continue to evaluate the most efficient spacing on our wells.
Some of that work will be -- began in earnest once we are able to do some pad drilling.
The next question comes from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dan what are current well costs right now in the Marcellus for Cabot? And how do you see them changing when you do start drilling some of those very large pads that you were just referring to? Well we've seen efficiencies.
And looking at our typical -- again back to our typical type 14 Bcf well we're in the say upper-$5 million to mid-$6 million range depending on effects on roads and locations and whatnot.
And we have -- as you're aware we have in our presentation our media presentation we have a slide that depicts some of the savings that we think we're going to realize comparing a 10-well pad versus a 2-well pad.
And we think that that savings -- from what we drill right now we think that savings would be greater than $500 000 per well once we are able to move to pad drilling.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then one follow-up.
Any updated thoughts on the potential divestiture of the Marmaton? No.
We continue to have our same mentality about the Marmaton and the other areas that we are not allocating a great deal of capital to.
And if we find the right opportunity and it looks like we could find a win-win deal out there then we would consider divesting the Marmaton or saving the Marmaton.
The next question comes from Marshall Carver of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
A couple of questions.
You talked about the Central compression still being in the start-up phase.
How do you see the growth from Q2 to Q3 and from Q3 to Q4 for the overall production for the company this year? Oh I don't have that in my fingertips.
We did revise the overall guidance from the 35% to 50% to the 44% to 54%.
I -- Marshall I'm sorry but I don't have just right at my fingertips the progression through third and fourth quarter.
But we are -- and we do anticipate that the Central compressor as we continue to work it the fuel guys continue to manage the fuel directionality of our gas based on the areas of lower pressure on the gathering system.
We do expect it will be a learning curve from our guys in the field and we do expect to see efficiency gains by virtue of this reduced line pressure.
And one -- switching modes to the Eagle Ford.
The longer lateral was significantly better.
Do you think the -- you're going to plan on drilling mostly longer laterals heading forward? And what would you say your overall Eagle Ford EURs are now based on the better results? Well certainly we're very pleased with the longer laterals and are -- the longer lateral.
And by virtue of those results our guys are evaluating the layout in the field and will make an effort to drill the longer laterals than what we have been drilling in the past.
I don't have and have not seen a well count yet on how many we'll be able to get out to 7 000 or 8 000 feet but I know that they are working on that.
And with the assumption and continued good curve bits over and above our typical wells we think we could move our EUR up in the Eagle Ford but we're not prepared to do that at this stage.
The next question comes from Louis Baltimore of Macquarie.
In the Eagle Ford while the first extended lateral have a very strong IP rate after 120 days of production it was producing essentially right in line with that 24-hour IP.
Can you comment on basically what was done in this well to keep production essentially flat for an entire 4 months? Well I'll make a brief comment then I'll throw it to Matt.
Certainly pleased and knew -- when we look at the flowback profile and it had a lot of stages in there and I don't know as it flowed back it's made a difference or -- if we're in fractures or what.
But I'll let Matt make a brief comment.
As Dan said we frac-ed 30 stages in that well and that well came on and was relatively flat decreased slightly in its performance.
But I think what we -- what happened was we continued to get contribution from additional stages as we went on.
I think we got contribution early along from the field.
And later on we started to get contribution from the other stages.
And as a matter of fact it just continues to get stronger.
We've been seeing that well continue to improve in performance even today.
So I think what's happened is we're getting additional contribution from additional stages.
We also have done a few things differently in our completion techniques and I think that's helped as well.
And then I just have one follow-up question related to the Marmaton.
Initially it looked like the returns in the Marmaton were as good if not better than those in the Eagle Ford.
And so I was wondering what drove the move of that one rig from the Marmaton to the Eagle Ford? Is it the increased efficiencies you're seeing in the Eagle Ford now? Well we have the increased efficiencies that we are realizing in the Eagle Ford.
We have higher cost acreage in the Eagle Ford.
We have more of a maintenance -- my primary term maintenance issue in the Eagle Ford that we need to focus on.
And then that is the motivation to focus 2 rigs down there versus 1.
We are very pleased with the Marmaton and your numbers are accurate and consistent with ours on the good returns we get from the Marmaton.
We think for '13 that our primary term acreage position up in the Marmaton is in pretty good shape.
So that -- all of that has influenced our decision on how to allocate our capital.
The next question comes from Amir Arif of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
On the step-out well to the north the production for frac stage was even better.
Are you moving to higher frac stages out there? Or is this just something specific to that one area that you needed to do? No.
We see variability in the wells.
And no it was not more frac stages.
We see variability in some of the wells -- not a great delta.
But we do see some in some areas.
We have a better maybe fracture system that we're connected to and can fracture into but -- we have seen those type of performances not only in the wells you are talking about but we've seen those type of performances on a per-stage basis on some of the wells also in our areas we've done majority of our drilling.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no real meaningful change happening in the number of frac stages you're doing per well? [indiscernible] own program? That's correct.
Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just a -- and then a follow-up quick question on the Eagle Ford.
Is -- or are you holding that well back? Is that well being choked back? Or is there surface constraints? Or is that [indiscernible] what you talked about in terms of other stages slowly coming on? Yes.
No we don't have it -- we don't have it choked back or held back at this stage.
I think along the lines what Matt indicated it's seeing -- as we go and as we produce think additional contributions from additional stages.
The next question comes from Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Question on new venture strategy.
Are you guys going to be doing anything along that for the next year or so? Well we have talked about new ventures in the form of portfolio management.
And the Marmaton has been an area that we've discussed on maybe new venture opportunity.
We have also looked at some of our legacy conventional assets in the Gulf Coast and we also look at some of our East Texas properties as far as maybe an opportunity that we would create for Cabot.
The next question comes from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering and Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions from me in regards to the Eagle Ford.
First I was just hoping if we could get a little bit of color on the date to drill at this point? Okay.
As far as the reduction in days to drill from down to approximately 9 from spud to TD? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Correct.
Okay.
Matt? I'm...
Sure.
We've done several things.
It's not just one.
We've changed our bottom hole assembly so that we don't trip as many times for our directional assemblies.
We've cut that trip time basically almost to one trip.
That's been a big big plus.
We've pushed our motors to differentials such that we're -- our P rates are much higher -- penetration rates are much higher than they were.
And also we've changed the way that we check our directional surveys such that we don't have to [indiscernible] the way we used to.
We take regular signals so we cut that time drastically in half.
It just [indiscernible] from other rig efficiencies as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then as we think about the 2 rigs you're running in the play today could you give us a little bit of color on how many wells that would be per year in terms of drilling completion? And I guess as you mentioned the 500 net wells in the play kind of -- it looks like there could be some potential for acceleration as you move out into '14 and '15 given the free cash flow generation but just trying to get a little bit better understanding of how you think about capital allocation to the Eagle Ford.
All right.
On the rig efficiency we're probably looking at 20 to 25 plus or minus as far as moving forward.
Yes.
I could speak a little bit.
Just -- you can look at it this way: we -- on our pad drilling on our first well and our rig move it's about an 18 day from move to rig release to the next well.
And then on every additional well it's additional 13 days.
So roughly you can take that on a 4-well pad I think that's roughly 57 days and you can do the math on the 6-well pad.
So you can do the math as far as that goes on a [indiscernible] basis.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And I guess just in regards to the 500 net wells do you think you're kind of optimally completing or allocating capital to the play with the 2 rigs running? Or is there the potential to accelerate it as you move into '14 and '15 given the corporate free cash flow generation? Certainly.
Certainly there's the opportunity to improve that.
And my reference to an extended 500-well program and how long that would last -- I would just reference to 2-well program because that's where we're going to drill right now.
But when you look at the efficiency gains that we anticipate making on pad drilling and you then roll back and once we are able to justify and realize consistent efficiency gains get the well costs down show the improvement hopefully that we plan on seeing in the IPs and 30-day average in the IRR then we will make a decision on how much of our free cash we will continue to allocate to the Eagle Ford which certainly if Matt and his guys can do this pad drilling they can drive the costs down and continue to deliver and we can get the returns up into the 60% 70% 80% range there's a lot of justification on allocating CAPEX to those type of projects.
The next question comes from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm assuming you could talk about the Marcellus infrastructure capacity in the second half of the year and into 2014.
I guess are you -- your facility is constrained now at that 1.2 Bcf a day? Well I don't think we're facility constrained per se.
Where our gas is producing though into a high line pressure I think we have seen that by adding additional facilities in the form of the Central compression station that by reducing those line pressures I think -- well we think we have seen a plus or minus 15% improvement from the existing wells.
So if by definition that is part of facility constraints maybe so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess you have -- it's sounds like you have a number of projects underway to help I guess reduce line pressure and allow you to continue to grow throughout the year.
So we have to bring those additional projects online to increase production in the back half of the year? Or is the -- I guess is the Central Station going to help you increase production in the back half? We plan on producing production in the back half and I'll let Jeff make some comments.
Drew I think you hit the nail on the head.
There's multiple multiple projects that are going on.
Some happened leading up to Central.
Central obviously was a major milestone and a lot will happen between now the end of the year.
And these projects include additional horsepower throughout the system bridge lines larger diameter pipes additional section lines.
I mean the list goes on and on.
The idea is to build a system that will -- that can enhance our production with lower line pressure and we've got a ways to go.
But these facilities are on schedule and it's very dynamic very fluid.
So there's always something going on as we build this out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the downspacing tests you've already drilled can you talk about the performance so far? I'm sorry on which one? Research Division</strong> On the downsizing test.
You guys drilled upper and lower Marcellus I believe? Yes.
Well we -- yes we have very few examples on the -- with the upper Marcellus and we've been pleased with those results.
And what we've indicated in the past is what we see as far as the curved pit is kind of an A+ Bcf type run on the upper.
The next question comes from Gil Yang of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Following up on Brian's question from early on you outlined nicely how the firm transportation grows and -- but your exposure to NYMEX doesn't really change with those new contracts.
But does the differential change with the increase in firm transportation versus the long-term contracts? Okay Gil I think I got your question but we'll try this.
The trades -- or excuse me the FT the transportation contracts as they increase we expect to have less exposure to basis differentials.
Our long-term contracts are -- I mean we've kind of outlined here very specifically just how they play out and what we're currently experiencing on basis.
Is that helpful? Inc</strong> I think so.
But I -- yes.
So your exposure to NYMEX doesn't change as you've said but at the same time you're long-term contracts that are -- but because you're more firm transportation you also have less exposure to long-term contracts overall.
So I would expect that the differentials improved.
Well if -- in a perfect world if differentials didn't move around like we all know they do then the firm transportation contracts do take us places that have higher and better basis differentials in today's world.
Inc</strong> Okay got you.
And then with the Eagle Ford well I was just curious -- very strong well obviously and you've commented why it's got a good decline rate.
But why -- is there something different about this well that allows those extra stages to come online whereas other wells don't do that as consistently? I just think it's a longer lateral.
I mean it's just basically just friction.
It think you tend to produce the heel stages first and then you get contribution from the tow stages as you draw down the pressure in the heel stages.
Inc</strong> Okay.
So you're just saying that that dynamic is just more pronounced with the longer lateral? It's just a limit capacity.
The next question comes from Ray Deacon of Brean Capital.
Research Division</strong> Dan I was wondering if you could comment on your EURs per 1 000 foot of lateral drilled.
It seems like a couple of your competitors have increased their numbers and your number is still around 2.3 Bcf.
I guess have you seen any data that would back up an increase in that? Which ones? Research Division</strong> Well basically EURs in the Marcellus per 1 000 foot of lateral drilled I guess the 14 Bcf EURs.
Well we're not -- we're looking at our curved pits Ray and we have a 14 Bcf-type of well that we've assigned and identified as our typical well because there's always variability in the number of stages and the lateral lengths.
But on a per thousand foot of lateral length we're comfortable with where we are.
And if down the road we can see some improvements then we'll recognize those.
But we're comfortable where we are right now and don't feel like we need to push it.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And just to follow up on your earlier comments about interstate pipeline capacity additions I guess do you have an estimate of how much capacity will be added in terms of total takeaway on big trunk lines over the next year or 2 in Northeast Pennsylvania? Yes I'll let Jeff handle it Ray.
Ray I've got some numbers.
They're more fun facts that -- like a bentex [ph] where someone would publish.
But essentially Northeast -- there's probably 1.5 Bcf of new capacity coming on by year end as a number of new projects.
Again it's very dynamic.
There's just a ton of projects that are proposed.
And just like any other about half of these projects will get built.
But we look at it 2 ways because you look at pipelines that are normal expansions like the Texas [indiscernible] that we do not have capacity on we don't produce into.
It does regionally influence where gas flows and what happens to pricing.
And then we look more specifically at the pipelines we're connected to and will be connected to and the expansion projects that those pipes have.
Over the next few years -- it's a big number.
And some of those projects won't get built and some will get built and then expanded upon.
So it's a moving target but we feel good about the expansions that have just happened in the last 12 months for example.
And so the ones going forward will only enhance what our opportunities are.
The next question comes from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> One more marketing-related question.
So it looks like you're probably moving about 500 to maybe plus million cubic feet of gas on short-term contracts.
Can you talk about say in the next couple of years how many of those contracts or maybe aggregate volumes that are falling over or expiring? No we're not going to get that detail.
But just for an example this year we're probably 80% of our production is sold under contracts that are existing.
That number moves around.
We have -- the market is quite dynamic in how it purchases gas.
There's still a lot of buyers out there for 1-year deals and a lot of buyers for April October deals and November March deals and 1-month deals.
I mean it's all over the place.
But if it helps we're about 80% sold for this year currently.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- so then is the remaining 20% then moving on interruptible capacity? Or...
No.
It's moving under firm capacity.
It's just sold in the month-to-month market.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then Central compressor station.
Is there still a phase 2 expansion there this year? And how do we think about -- is that the same sort of impact to lower field-wide pressures? There is a phase 2 to Central.
It is not this year.
It's at the end of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And when that comes on it'll have a similar impact? Or is that more at that point a discharge point for Constitution? It'll do both and there will be -- there's a lot of projects between now and then so we have no idea of the effect but we know that it's from the hydraulics perspective from our planning teams.
It's going to be very helpful.
The next question comes from Jack Aydin of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Most of the questions were asked but I've got 3 to follow up.
A when you did last year's reserve what -- is it pad? What kind of booking did you book those wells? At PUD -- PDP or PUD -- on a PUD basis? Zick? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Zick was on a PDP basis for the majority of that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's fair to assume that the performance of those wells that you just announced 2 miles and 5 miles away you were looking at the same type of reserve kind of booking? Well we're pleased with those wells out there.
The early curved pit is good and the consistency we see from -- Halliwell [ph] has come on and how they continue to pit the curve is consistent I should say.
And so we're very pleased with what we're seeing out there.
Research Division</strong> Good.
Now Dan what do you think -- what percentage of your acreage now in Susquehanna have been de-risked in your mind? 80%.
Research Division</strong> 80%? Okay.
Next question I have for you is this: in the Marcellus over there in Susquehanna you've got different formations.
Are you doing any different -- drilling different pilot projects to test the other formation beside the Marcellus? Or that -- or you don't need to do it now? Well we don't -- one we don't need to do it now.
And right now we are focused on the lower Marcellus at this stage.
We have -- in the past to gather data we have drilled deeper than the Marcellus.
And certainly we've looked at sections shallower than the Marcellus.
But that's just data in the bank right now.
The next question comes from Gordon Douthat of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Have you -- I know you've been asked this question before but given kind of the dividend increase and the increase in production how do you -- going forward how do you look at balancing acceleration versus returning cash to shareholders as you've kind of looked at this free cash flow profile going forward? Gordon this is Scott.
Clearly the -- what we have said throughout the second quarter and throughout the first half of this year when we've been asked the question based on the parameters the number one thing to do is to accelerate the Marcellus and that we made an initial attempt to do that with the sixth rig.
Clearly the horizon for the free cash flow and the level of free cash flow while we haven't given guidance to '14 we're very comfortable with that concept for '14.
And so we did take the opportunity as we have done every time we've split the stock before to make some move on the dividend.
Dividend this is not a final step with the dividend but at the same time we're not going to guarantee we're going to move it again in '14 but it is going to continue both the Marcellus and with the latest kind of results from the Eagle Ford will become part of the operational acceleration discussion as Dan said depending on what kind of returns we can affect in the Eagle Ford.
But dividend will still be a close kind of second to that operational discussion as we talk in the future.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you have a longer-term growth target for the company? Or...
In terms of dividend or just growth from the...
LLC Research Division</strong> For production growth? We are working on a model out through '17 that we'll finalize in the next month.
But historically we've kind of done it 1 year at a time simply because there is a lot of noise.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Thank you Andrew.
I appreciate everybody's diligence and the questions that were asked.
Again a lot of questions on clarity from the marketing side of it.
I think the takeaway is that we are very comfortable where we sit today and our marketing and its impact on realized pricing for Cabot in spite of the volatility we see out there.
And I think you've also seen some very good results in the eastern portion again supporting our thesis all along the de-risking of acreage out that way.
And I think -- and I was pleased to see a number of new questions regarding our Eagle Ford operation as we are now starting to show some efficiency capture and some gains in that particular operation.
So I'm pleased with where we are.
Thanks for the interest and we will continue to perform.
Thanks.
And that concludes my remarks.
Thank you sir.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
And have a good day.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Emily.
Good morning all and thank you for joining us for this call.
I have a number of members of the executive team with me today to assist in the Q&amp;A session.
Before we start let me say the standard boilerplate and forward-looking statements included in the press release apply to my comments today.
On the call today we will plan to cover the following: our third quarter 2013 operating and financial results; an update on our operations in the Marcellus and Eagle Ford; and finally an update on our guidance for 2013 and 2014 including our capital budget and operating plans for 2014.
Before I go into details of these topics let me start with the financial highlights from the quarter which was by the way one of best quarters we have had.
For the third quarter we produced 107 Bcfe of total company net production or approximately 1.16 Bcfe per day which is an increase of 61% over last year's comparable quarter and a 13% increase sequentially over the previous quarter.
Liquids production increased 43% over last year's comparable quarter and 18% over last quarter driven by 28% sequential increase in our Eagle Ford liquids volumes.
Net income grew significantly during the quarter increasing 91% over last year's comparable quarter.
While net income excluding select items increased 73% over the same period.
In the third quarter we also continue to generate robust cash flow growth with discretionary cash flow and cash flow from operations increasing 69% and 61% respectively over the last year's comparable quarter.
Our third quarter unit cost of $2.97 per Mcfe were down 15% over last year's comparable quarter and down 4% relative to last quarter continuing to demonstrate how our already industry-leading cost structure continues to trend lower.
In fact our cash costs for the third quarter were only $1.25 per Mcfe down 19% compared to last year's comparable quarter and down 8% relative to last quarter.
Our natural price realizations were approximately 96% of the average NYMEX last-day settle price for the third quarter which exceeded expectations based on the mid-point of the basis differential guidance range we provided in early September.
Now let's move to our Marcellus highlights.
Our operations in the Marcellus continue to provide peer-leading well results across our acreage position.
In our press release yesterday we highlighted the results from several of the recent wells that further reinforce the productivity and consistency of the wells in our operating area.
These results included 13 wells from a total of 4 pads.
As you can see we're still drilling just a select number of wells from pads.
We have not yet got to the pad full-pad development drilling.
We completed -- these wells were completed with a total of 272 stages for a peak production rate of 323 million cubic foot per day.
Very impressive results from our team in the Marcellus on the execution of our operation and an equally impressive demonstration of the quality of Cabot's Marcellus position.
These results highlight the true differentiating factor of Cabot with the most economic wells in the Marcellus and I think it's without question.
You can cut the publicly available data in a few different ways and arrive at the same conclusion.
When focusing on initial production rates the previously mentioned wells on average had an IP rate of 5.4 million cubic foot per day per 1 000 lateral feet and a 1.2 million cubic foot per day per completed frac stage.
And this is not just a case of our wells coming online strong with open chokes and dropping off immediately.
The average 30-day rate for these wells was approximately 90% of the IP rate.
While this is only a sample of our wells from the third quarter these results imply an increase in an IP rate per foot and per stage compared to our typical 14 Bcf well from our 2012 program which is especially impressive considering our 14 Bcf well was already best-in-class among Marcellus producers when comparing EUR per lateral foot of 3.4 Bcf.
This compares also very favorably to today's public data for Marcellus players.
While we do not provide updated EURs and reserve data until year end I will say that on average our 2013 program lateral lengths are several hundred feet longer than our 2012 program and we are using approximately 200-foot spacing between frac stages on all our wells.
As a result we are completing 3 to 4 extra stages per well in our '13 program as compared to our industry-leading 2012 program.
Also I recently reviewed our forecasted drilling programs for '14 and '15 and I can tell you that a portion of the increase in our '14 program and that's an increase in our capital program is a result of longer lateral lengths and more stages per well than our '13 program.
Additionally our '15 program will provide yet longer laterals and more stages.
Regarding pricing sensitivities even in our highlighted low-case pricing assumptions for '14 we still generate greater than 100% return.
While there's been a lot of focus on near-term pricing over the last few months we believe as this quarter highlights the focus should be on the fact that we have the most economic resource in the U.S.
What the third quarter also shows is our ability to exceed growth expectations while producing record results in a tough price environment.
Let me move to some comments in our Eagle Ford operation.
Beginning in the third quarter we redirected our focus in South Texas to our Eagle Ford program and it is beginning to pay off as we experienced strong sequential growth with Eagle Ford liquids production increasing by approximately 28% over the second quarter.
As we discussed on the second quarter call we added a second rig in the Eagle Ford in August which is solely focused on pad drilling and we will continue to operate 2 rigs in the play for the remainder of the year.
We also noted in the last night's press release the substantial cost savings we are -- we have realized with our most recent drilling and completion operations.
On the previous call I was asked what is -- what it would take to accelerate the Eagle Ford operation above our 2 rig program and I said we were hoping to see returns of 60% to 80% based on the results we are seeing from the longer lateral wells and the cost savings we're realizing on the drilling and completion activities.
I think those returns are achievable in a consistent manner and as a result we continue to be excited about the future of our Eagle Ford program.
We will have more incremental results to discuss on the next call as a result of the multi-well pad drilling we are currently conducting.
I'm now going to move to our 2013 and 2014 guidance.
And based on our year-to-date production we feel very comfortable reaffirming our full year 2013 production guidance of 44% to 54% even assuming a loss of the quarter of production associated with the sale of the Marmaton and West Texas properties.
Also despite our strategic decision to hold back certain volumes periodically due to pricing in the day market in the third quarter our robust growth in the third quarter through -- our robust growth in the third quarter further reinforces our ability to grow not only production but also cash flows in light of the headwinds related to natural gas pricing.
We anticipate fourth quarter realized pricing will be stronger than we saw in the third quarter with an unhedged basis differential guidance range of plus $0.10 to minus $0.30 relative to NYMEX.
However regardless of pricing we fully expect to meet our production guidance for the year.
In regards to asset sales we made it clear that the Marmaton was a potential candidate for divestiture due to the focus elsewhere and the result of lost opportunity in this area without sufficient capital deployed.
The small legacy West Texas piece was not strategic and never received the desired capital.
The implied metrics for the deal were very compelling compared to the recent transactions and the proceeds will make Cabot cash flow positive for the year.
For 2014 we are reaffirming our 30% to 50% production growth guidance.
Capital spending for the year is expected to be $1.375 billion to $1.475 billion based off a 7-rig program in the Marcellus and a 2-rig program in the Eagle Ford.
Approximately 85% of our capital budget will be spent on drilling and completion activities.
75% of the drilling and completion capital will be allocated to the Marcellus and the remaining 25% will be focused on the Eagle Ford.
We plan to drill 170 to 190 net wells next year with 130 to 140 net wells in the Marcellus and 40 to 50 net wells in the Eagle Ford.
Virtually all of our wells are 100% working interest in both areas and I suspect our 2014 net well count is considerably less than our peers and will still deliver best-in-class production growth.
Our basis differential assumption for full year '14 is a range of flat to NYMEX to minus $0.40 per Mcf even at the low end of that range.
Again we will generate a free cash flow positive program.
Our unit cost guidance for '14 is expected to decrease by 10% at the mid-point relative to 2013 unit cost guidance.
On production we have been continuously asked about what factors are driving the low end and high end of our production range.
I do not plan to get into the granular details around each assumption that was made.
However I will say that we ran multiple sensitivities internally as we always do on our budget processes.
And even assuming a reasonable level of curtailments throughout the year our production growth remains well above the low end of our guidance.
As we have done in previous years we will review the guidance quarterly.
And to the extent we feel we need to update the range based on current information we will do so.
Cabot has generated 3 consecutive years of annual production growth over 40% and the mid-point of 2014 guidance implies a fourth consecutive year of 40% production growth.
More importantly assuming the current strip and the continued reduction in our unit cost we expect cash flow growth to outpace production.
And while these top line growth numbers continue to be best-in-class given that we are doing it with a cash flow positive program our relative debt-adjusted growth numbers will be very compelling in an industry known for more outspending cash flow.
As we have previously discussed based on our budget we expect to be free cash flow positive in '14.
However the magnitude of the free cash which will ultimately be dependent upon the pricing dynamics in the Marcellus during the year.
Given the addition of a sixth rig in August this year and a seventh rig beginning in early '14 for our Marcellus program and the magnitude which we can increase our production with this level of activity in the Marcellus we will consider further acceleration of our high-margin high-return Eagle Ford program assuming we do continue to deliver the results we expect and changes to our distribution policy will be the primary candidates for the use of free cash in '14.
As it relates to distribution policy in the past we have ranked an increase in our regular dividend as a high priority which was evidenced by the 100% increase in our regular dividend in August.
However in light of our recent underperformance in the market share repurchase have become increasingly more attractive as we believe there is a disconnect between our market valuation and our intrinsic value.
As a reminder under our current share repurchase plan we have authorization to repurchase up to 10 million -- approximately 10 million shares which certainly can be increased if the situation warrants.
And finally a couple of comments around our marketing effort.
With regard to pricing we mentioned earlier our overarching assumption for the full year 2014 is that our average realized price will range from flat to minus 40% compared to the NYMEX last-day settle price.
This assumption includes the potential for seasonality outside this range.
Additionally the low range is representative of weak third party -- third quarter index levels that we saw and persisting continuously throughout 2014 which we do not expect.
Our sales strategy remains unchanged as we combine our winter and summer sales with our long-term firm sales while also utilizing our firm transportation position.
This approach will allow for approximately 5% of our volumes to reach the day market which is generally necessary for operational purposes.
Collectively we have already placed over 1 Bcf for the '13 and '14 winter period and approximately 900 million cubic foot a day for the April October summer period for 2014.
These positions will certainly be expanded on in the normal course of business.
Regarding our hedging strategy for the year we currently have approximately 30% of our 2014 gas volumes hedged at the mid-point of our guidance range at a floor of $4.10 per Mcf.
We will continue to lock in additional NYMEX hedge contracts throughout the year when the opportunity arises.
Given the fact that a significant amount of our volumes are already contracted at a fixed premium or slight discount to NYMEX these hedges will help reduce volatility in our overall realized prices.
In closing we certainly remain enthusiastic about the future of both our Marcellus and Eagle Ford effort.
Yes we will have near-term headwinds just like the entire industry will have in various different places at times but we will continue to adapt and adjust to respond to those circumstances.
Even with all the negatives in the last 8 weeks this quarter for Cabot ranks as one of the best of all times.
As one of you has recently mentioned in the end it's the rock in the economics that matter and we still have one of the best if not the best in that regard.
Emily with those brief comments I'll be more than happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Penetrating on the buyback program are you currently authorized to start buying back shares? And can you offer some more color on where that program can go? I'll answer that Drew.
This is Scott Schroeder.
We have had an outstanding buyback authorization for a longer period of time.
With the splits and the adjustments in it it is up to just under 10 million shares.
Our blackout period will end today so -- and we're fully operational if we choose to go in and buy shares on weakness at various points in time.
And it'll be up more after-the-fact kind of disclosure where we just wanted to in light of all the questions we had around free cash flow in light of the weakness of the stock we wanted to be more proactive in saying that we do have that as an arrow in our quiver and we will use it when we see it appropriate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it looks like if we look ahead you could be generating I guess more cash flow than I was thinking before at least.
Are you guys open to maybe looking at acquisitions or expanding into new areas where that's organic or where acquisition-based? Do you have any thoughts there? Well Drew we have -- with our current capital guidance that we've given we have several areas that have been included in that capital exposure that are exploratory in nature.
And if in fact those are areas that yield returns that are competitive with our existing projects we will consider expanding into those areas.
At this time we have also continued to pick up some acreage in the areas that we operate.
And -- but we do not have plans and are not focused on buying a bolt-on in an area that we are not currently exposed to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly just on well costs.
I guess given that you're talking about longer laterals bigger wells overall going forward where do you see well cost going from here? Well the well cost again when you look at the average and you look at the nets that we have and 100% working interest wells the increase on the drilling side is typically not that substantial because the drill rates and penetration rates are so robust.
But the incremental ad that we have will be by virtue of more stages in those longer laterals.
And in our pumping services we are -- we have very good contracts on our pumping services and the uptick will be a direct proportion to the incremental number of stages.
So I would say probably anywhere from $250 000 to $500 000 on some of the expanded wells that we drill.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And thinking maybe where you are right now with well costs? Well on -- and we've gone to and we've still used as we have highlighted in our discussion points in our presentation our '14 Bcf well for example in the Marcellus is around this $6-plus million range.
In the Eagle Ford we have highlighted and particularly in our press release with the most recent drilling that we've been able to do and particularly on we're on a pad right now.
We haven't gotten to TD but we're drilling pad wells there with a walking rig.
And we think again reiterating what I've said in the release that we think we're going to be saving just on the drilling side $500 000 to $600 000 per well in the Eagle Ford.
And we think we're going to get our well cost below the $7 million range.
Next question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> The 100% working interest wells this year is that more of a high-griding exercise? Or what -- how sustainable is your drilling program at that level? And maybe you could help us with the average working interest across the 2 plays currently.
Yes.
It is a little bit of an aberration as we go into '14 and there is a couple of reasons for that.
The couple of reasons that make the majority of impact is one through '13 we had a significant level of joint venture wells that we operated and we drilled in our joint venture with Osaka.
So from a net perspective we had a number of gross wells in there but we didn't net out the higher percentage because of Osaka's interest.
Additionally by virtue of the sale of the Marmaton up in Oklahoma we had a number of nonoperated wells up in the Marmaton that we participated in.
And we also had on the operated wells we also were anywhere from say 35% to 85% working interest in the operated wells.
And that was one of the reasons why we elected to refocus into our core areas where we have blocked acreage and where we can have greater efficiencies at 100% operated wells going forward.
We do anticipate that by virtue of again having to anomalous events the JV in the Pearsall and the sale of the Marmaton that we will have a much much higher working interest percent on average than we have in the past.
Research Division</strong> Really helpful.
And I guess so that my follow-up would be in your prepared remarks you talked about you expect in your capital review your plan for next year and the year after.
You expect longer laterals in sequentially '14 and -- well '13 and '15 over '14 but also more stages per well I guess.
Can you just help us understand this? How much further do you think you can go in terms of improving the efficiencies of these individual wells? And I'll leave it at that.
Okay.
It's a good question Doug.
And the industry as a whole has certainly been pushing the limits of extended laterals and reduced spacing on frac stages.
Some other ideas being tried is increased profit per stage.
I think it is true we'll continue to tweak and try different ideas that would enhance the efficiencies.
In our Eagle Ford operation as an example we had averaged 4 000 or 5 000-foot type laterals in a pad that we are currently on right now.
We are going to average out to 9 000-foot on those particular Eagle Ford locations on that pad.
How much further you get out is at least in our sense right now beyond 9 000 feet is going to be pushing it with current technology and current efficiencies to be able to assure yourself you're getting effective fracs at the tow stages.
But nevertheless as you can see going straight from 5 000 to 7 500 or 9 000 certainly is a step further out in the Eagle Ford.
In the Marcellus we continue to extend our average lateral lengths in those particular wells.
And we have some wells that we have planned for '14 that would allow us to put say place 40-or-so stages in a particular well.
So we are extending them out further but it's not going to be as aggressive of increase as you have seen in the past by industry as a whole I might add.
And the next question is from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering Dan could you give us an idea on both the timeline of these long-lateral Eagle Ford wells that you're drilling the timeline we should expect results on? And really what kind of rates you're looking for out of those wells? Yes.
Charles that's a good question.
We have again on one of these pads we're on we have drilled 6 of the top holes on a 6-well pad and now we're going back and we're starting the laterals on that 6-well pad.
As a placeholder we had completed a 4-well pad.
And we completed that 4-well pad that had a measured depth of 58 000 feet and we completed it in 58 days.
So pretty simple 1 000-foot average throughout 4 wells on a -- on that particular pad.
So I don't know if that will hold true Charles as we get out even further with the lateral lengths.
But that kind of gives you a benchmark to work with.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
But just the key thing here though is that you're batch drilling and are you going to do a batch completion on that pad as well? Yes we will.
Yes.
And just one other quick point Charles on that.
And that's the reason I kind of said well when we come out with the data we will probably have something at our year-end call in February we would hope a little bit more color on results of these wells.
But the 6-well pad is probably not going to be a great -- a lot of time on that particular pad site but we should have some more color certainly on our year-end call.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
It'll be a lot of oil when it does come at you.
But before I...
And we -- we're working on...
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Before I -- right.
The other thing I wanted to ask just to touch briefly on this Northeast differential issue I looked up at one of the regional hubs out there and there's actually been a dramatic or -- there's been a pretty quick tightening or narrowing of the basis just in the last week.
And so I was wondering if you could -- we're about -- we're close to 1/3 of the way through the quarter and I could just -- wondered if you can offer a few more thoughts on how it's looking for the last 2 months of the year.
Well -- and I'll let Jeff just add some brief color to it.
But I will say this.
I looked at it and we had our board meetings of course yesterday and the day before and we kind of glanced at it.
One of the indices was up $0.72.
Again volatility is the name of the game.
But -- and we ran through a lot of sensitivities as I mentioned in the little talk here.
And we think it's going to be volatile.
There is going to be times when we don't like the number and there's going to be times that we can catch up.
And through all that sensitivity we feel like the range that we've given is supportive.
And not only that with the type of wells that we're drilling and the unit cost discounts that we're seeing our return profile for this program is going to be significant.
And in fact if you back up a little ways and you take the noise out that's been most recently discussed in regard to the most recent past differentials our returns are probably going to compete against returns that we had when we didn't have this differential noise.
Yes I'll let -- I think Jeff wants to make a comment also Charles.
Yes Charles I'll get a little more specific with your question.
The Leidy Line that you're speaking of has seen I think a great improvement just in the last week.
Although I will say it's been improving in the last 6 weeks little by little as Tennessee has improved as well and demand has improved in some of the other pipes.
I think on the Leidy Line the volume of gas that reaches that pipeline is pretty much at its max.
So the pipe is full.
What's been missing up there has been the demand.
And now the demand piece has shown up we're going to see improved price in there.
And in fact I think yesterday's gas day was maybe $0.05 under NYMEX so a big improvement.
And then on Tennessee with that pipeline opening up on November 1 with the new capacity in the Bcf a day since we'd want them -- about 300 went west about 700 went east the transportation opportunities and the path has opened up.
And we've seen a big improvement there.
Not quite like Transco's Leidy Line but we expect to see as winter progresses more flattening of that basis as well.
And our next question is from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Were there any one-offs that impacted Q3 Marcellus differentials like pipeline maintenance things like that that are worth highlighting which may not be repeatable say next year? Yes I'm going to flip that right off to Jeff Pearce.
Okay.
Yes particularly in the third quarter we had I wouldn't call it as bad as a perfect storm scenario but we have a number of scenarios that changed the dynamics of pricing particularly on Tennessee.
They had some -- obviously they had construction all summer to facilitate new capacity coming on November 1.
So that was hammering some of the areas that normally did not see reduction in capacity.
We also had folks taking gas off Tennessee trying to get to other locations that were already full and so that also intensified the problem.
We had some -- the weather I don't want to harp on how mild the weather was but the lack of power-gen on that particular pipeline is very sensitive to demand regarding whether both winter and summer.
So we have that concern at the same point.
There was obviously a little bit of new production that came on that also added to that scenario.
But overall we think that with this new capacity and normal weather conditions that will return to a more historic-type basis.
Research Division</strong> And then Dan what are your thoughts about de-risking other horizons on your Marcellus acreage? I know you've done some completions in the past on the Purcell but what about something like in Onondaga? Well Pearce one of the things -- one of the processes and procedures that we're going to be able to get to in our '14 program is that the examples of pad drilling that we've been discussing.
And pad drilling means getting to the 6 8 10 wells per pad maybe 12 14 wells per pad.
But the opportunity at that time will allow us to try multiple ideas on that particular pad that would be -- allow us to look at analogous similar geology and the information and gather -- and data points we get from that similar geology will allow us to maybe make a little bit better interpretation of what the results are telling us.
So in some of the things that we're going to try to accomplish which are going to be reduced spacing in the Lower Marcellus.
We'll have also the Purcell test.
We'll have the Upper Marcellus test.
And we will look at the -- any other ideas that we have in additional rocks that might be something for the future.
So that's the time we're going to do that Pearce.
Yes.
And I would say towards the end of '14 we would be able to give you some additional color on all those points.
Our next question is from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> When we look at your end markets for gas I think you had said about 65% of this year's contracts are linked to Henry Hub.
Can you talk to what that number is for next year? And how is the relationship to Henry Hub of next year's contracts compared with this year's? Okay.
I'll let Jeff give you a brief executive summary on that.
Yes Brian the 65% for 2013 we're going to look at growing that number for 2014 just because of the production growth.
And so what I'm trying to say is most of the next round of contracts pertaining to the production growth will be tied to NYMEX-based contracts.
So it's pretty much as simple as that.
As far as what's going on in '14 compared to '13 we -- as we've talked about before we took great lengths to put together all of our portfolio of contracts and transactions to be able to supply you with this range for pricing going forward.
If you tried to compare that to pricing in 2013 I know we were relatively flat in NYMEX in quarter 1 and quarter 2.
And then you saw the results for quarter 3 and we're probably pretty close to our guidance for 4.
So you can kind of work the numbers from there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to make sure I understood the early part of your response when you talk about adding new volumes to increase the number are you increasing the percent above 65%? Or are you keeping the percent reported at the same soon-to-be and just adding contracts given your growth? The percent will grow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then when we think about the key milestones to meeting the midpoint of the 2014 guidance can you just walk us through key items that you see on the critical path regionally within Susquehanna County? I guess one would assume if you get to your -- if you get the rig count ramped up on schedule then those items on a critical path will be more from a midstream perspective.
Are you talking about our production volume Brian? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So for us to have confidence that you are at versus above versus below or for you to have confidence that you are trending at versus above versus below your 2014 volume guidance what do you see as items on a critical path as you go forward through 2014? One on the operational side I don't see anything that is going to deter us from achieving the volume rates that we have forecast.
Operationally we have the -- one we have a significant level of wells that we're going to roll into '14 and a significant number of stages in those wells that we roll into '14.
And with the level of drilling that we have between now and then and the addition of the seventh rig I think we are going to be able to meet or exceed the guidance that we've given with our operations program.
The length of laterals the number of stages and our ability to secure the pumping fleets up there are all within our reach and I see no issues in regard to that.
The 30% to 50% guidance we gave as I've kind of talked through in the teleconference write-up we are -- we're looking at the -- all the sensitivities on us pulling off even throughout the full year us pulling off production that would be representative of some of our day gas.
So even in light of that we have a significant opportunity to meet or exceed our production guidance.
So I'm -- any key milestones it's really going to be conducting our operations as effectively and efficiently as we have in the last few years.
Research Division</strong> So basically there's nothing on the critical path from a midstream perspective? That's all in place and so it is executing on the upstream and watching the markets to make sure that demand is there? Or are there midstream -- key midstream items to think about? There's not anything in the midstream that is going to be a critical path item for us to be able to achieve our higher rates that we forecast.
In fact at the end of '14 we will have in the form of compression dehydration and our measurement capacity 3.4 Bcf available to us.
And our next question is from Bob Brackett of Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One you mentioned the quality of the rocks early on as a kind of a commanding advantage.
Have you guys ever benchmarked through the Northeast gate [ph] what advantage the rocks have versus what your own proprietary completions have? Say that again.
I'm sorry Bob I...
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can you separate how good the rocks are from how good your completion strategies are up in the Marcellus? Okay.
I appreciate that.
Well the feedback we get from the North region personnel is it's all their completion technique.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> That would be expected.
But to quantify that we do things in our completion operations up there.
We were first movers.
We discovered the Northeast Pennsylvania Marcellus and we have developed it with the first drilling up there in that particular area.
And we have a core group extremely talented individuals that have paid attention to it and have done their tweaking and evaluation.
And so I certainly think what we do has some bearing on it.
But I also think that the Marcellus that we drilled in our particular area is uniquely thick compared to the rest of the Marcellus you see across the entire state and into West Virginia.
The maturity of it is at a perfect maturity that allows it to have a very low amount of connate water frac-ing.
And viability of that allows it to be extensively fractured with the fracs that we put on it.
And I think the recoveries that we get up in place reserves as a result of that and not having any water in the system and any concerns about permeability issues down the road we are in the absolute best spot you can find as far as reservoir quality.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And a follow-up you talked about differentials being flat to minus $0.40 off of Henry Hub.
What's your view for Henry hub for next year? We haven't looked at the Henry Hub except to say that on average we are going to be between the say $3.80 and $4.
Our next question is from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers Investment.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask one question to each regarding Eagle Ford and the Marcellus.
I'll go with the Marcellus first.
It looks like your average production per stage is spot-on with the wells you highlighted in the second quarter.
And -- but in the second quarter you gave us some locational color with regard to the wells being north and northeast of Zick.
I was wondering if you could give us some kind of indications of what the locations of the 4 pads highlighted in the third quarter are.
They were at -- they were scattered throughout our areas.
We had a pad site to the northeast not just east but to the northeast.
We had a pad site to the south and southwest and so they were scattered throughout our area.
And by the way they were in 4 different townships.
Inc.</strong> Okay good.
That's helpful.
And with regard to the Eagle Ford about the time you guys were at our conference in August you had reported an 8 000-foot Eagle Ford well that had basically no decline over a 3-month period.
And I was just wondering if there's any follow-on data with regard to that well and if you've seen any kind of similar type of behavior in the wells that you've drilled subsequently.
Yes I'll let Matt Reid respond to that and kind of give you maybe what we produce to date and it's still performing well.
Right.
That's our Pickens B16 well had a lateral length of about 8 200 feet 30 stages.
That well's produced 125 000 barrels in about 200 days.
It still continues to produce an equivalent rate of about 600 barrels equivalent per day.
So it's been fairly flat great producer good EUR.
So -- and the wells we're drilling off the current pad will be similar in length to the Pickens well.
Our next question is from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
The wells that you highlighted in the Marcellus earlier today and looks like even compared to some of the reduced cluster spacing wells that you had talked about earlier looks like there's an improvement.
Other than the longer laterals are there other things you're doing on the completion front that is still diving improvement in productivity? Well we have got our spacing down.
Some of our -- a small portion of our '12 program had the 200-foot stages spacing.
And all of our 13 wells and our wells going forward are going to have that phasing -- spacing.
And when you look at what we do on the completion side again back to the comment I made on I think to Jeffrey was that -- or Bob the guys up there have continuously tried different techniques and processes on our completions and we have a good database right now and we try different things all the time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as far as northeast demand is concerned I think you guys have been looking pretty close look at it being a longer-range plan.
Anything you can share in terms of new market opportunities for pipelines or incremental demand? Yes.
I'll chuck that to Jeff Biju.
Yes.
Biju we have -- it's an ongoing process for us as we look at different options getting out of Susquehanna County.
I think you'll -- if you follow the open seasons by the compliance particularly the nonbonding open seasons you see a lot of projects around drawing boards that get gas out in Northeast PA particularly to the Carolinas to the mid-Atlantic area and additional pipe.
More in obviously the Constitution and into New York here in November.
But I think the other thing that's a little bit missing from the equation is all the new projects in Southwest PA that will move gas most likely to Canada and obviously back on racks.
And all the backhaul projects and pipe reversals that are going on there will also influence the Northeast production and probably obtaining more market share of the projects I mentioned previously.
So it's ongoing.
We have a number of ideas and it's -- we hope to expand on that in the next few months.
Research Division</strong> And in the next few months is it likely that we could hear it from kind of like Cabot-sponsored pipeline like the Constitution? Is that -- or is that on the industry projects that you're referring to? Yes.
Probably bad choice of words the next few months.
These projects take a long time to develop.
And I think the pipelines are putting them together as we speak.
We're trying to make decisions on which projects are best for us.
And then if it's more than one just what share of those projects that we participate in.
So it's ongoing.
There's more than a dozen that would benefit us directly.
And so we're in an evaluation stage at this point.
Our next question is from Gil Yang of DISCERN.
Inc</strong> Just a couple of questions sort of following up on some of the other questions.
The role that you were talking about for going into 2014 are you in any way because of the curtailments that you had voluntarily placed on are there more wells sort of waiting to be turned on than you would have expected? And does that lead you to go into 2014 a little hotter than you would have originally planned and sorts of make it easier for you to grow? Gil it's a good question.
We have certainly capacity.
And in fact I think today's rate is probably a rate that is higher than maybe we've seen.
But the result is that we do have -- we do have volumes that are upcoming with some robust completions that we expect that we have risked if you will on the production profile we've included in our forecast.
Inc</strong> Okay.
The risk via the curtailment issues.
Right.
Not versus productivity just reframe the timing of when they would come in.
And Gil this is Scott.
Just based on the simple math we do have 6 rigs running in the Marcellus now.
So just by the nature of that activity we're going to have a higher number of completions going into the next year than we had last year.
Inc</strong> Sure.
Right okay.
And then with regard to completions have you given much thought to -- or have you also been tweaking lateral spacings? Or do you think you're pretty much optimized in terms of the distance between laterals or any Chevroning of the laterals within that formation? Yes.
Well on the -- are you talking about the frac stage spacing? Inc</strong> No no.
Well obviously you've gotten on to the 200-foot spacing within the frac -- for the frac stage length.
I'm just talking about the spacing between the laterals that you're drilling.
Oh okay.
Yes all right.
Yes Gil.
Well that is a -- like I've mentioned before once we do get on some pads we will be looking at reduced spacing.
We will and in fact we have drilled a couple of wells that have gone down to 800-foot and we will continue to look at what we think is a very optimal spacing.
But that is the plan to continue to reduce from the 1 000 feet we have right now to something less.
Inc</strong> You want to say -- can you say what happened to the 800-foot spacing? Still too early.
Our next question is from Jack Aydin of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Looking at the -- is any of those 4 pads that you had in the quarter any of them is Reilly Pad? Or Reilly Pad was not included in those? No we don't have the pipeline yet hooked up out there Jack.
I know we're still waiting on that.
And the anticipation is that that we would be able to get it hooked up this quarter and we still believe that to be the case.
But again we did -- these are pads that are outside of the area where the majority of our drilling has taken place.
And as I mentioned they're in 4 different townships.
Research Division</strong> And second question do you have another opportunities to acquire additional acreage in Susquehanna? Is there anything available to add on bolt-on in your acreage in Susquehanna? Or did you do any purchases in this quarter? Well the -- some of the purchases that we've done has just been by virtue of some of the small tracks picking up the lessors that have or the mineral owners that have desired to wait until there is going to be a well drilled near them and in the event they lease on them.
And we have picked up some acreage in that regard throughout the year along those lines.
There as far as a bolt-on piece of acreage that we could buy we're not negotiating any at this time.
Research Division</strong> Some clarification Dan.
You mentioned you placed 1 B in 2013 at a fixed and about 900 in Bs from April 2014 to the end of the year.
Is that fixed firm or what? What kind -- could you clarify it a little bit for me what you mean by that? Yes yes.
Jack I'll let Jeff on.
Okay Jack.
What we're telling the world here is that we have a Bcf a day of gas already placed for the winter period.
That's November through March of this year and first quarter of 2014.
When we say placed we mean we have that wet gas under contracts and similar-type contracts that we always have with splits between different indices but primarily based on NYMEX.
And then that we have approximately 900 000 a day for the summer period that's April through October.
It's already under contract.
So those are all firm sales.
And for the most part we've utilized the majority of our firm transportation with those sales.
So we think we're in pretty good shape with a large majority of our gas already under contract.
Our next question is from Gordon Douthat of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Question on the lateral lengths for this year.
So at 200-foot spacing I think you mentioned in your prepared comments you've added about 3 to 4 frac stages this year.
So does that get you about 47 000 48 000-foot lateral? Yes that's good math.
Not 47 000 feet.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm sorry 4 700 feet.
There you go.
Scott will always get the numbers right.
He's good with numbers.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I believe you had some of those on since 2012.
I'm just trying to get a sense of what type of production history you need on those longer laterals with the tighter frac spacing in order to feel comfortable increasing those EURs.
Well on the flowbacks and what we see early-stage time on the wells that we have brought on we feel very comfortable that we're going to have increases in those wells based on what we've seen through our other wells.
And the fit on the production curve is going to tell us fairly quickly that we can expect a better EUR.
There's nothing that we see right now that's going to deter us from our position that EURs will be higher in '13 than they were in '12.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that probably with the reserve report on the 2013 reserve report you'd discuss that further.
Is that something that you'd talk about in February? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then to what extent is that incorporated in 2013 production guidance and then also 2014 production guidance? Well we kind of look at what the production curve fit is for our normal wells out there and we use that curve fit and roll it all the way through the year to come up with our production profile.
So from that sense the EUR is applicable when used in what we forecast.
But I'm not sure I'm answering your question though Gordon.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to get a sense of what -- is there upside to the numbers? I know you've given some fairly wide ranges next year but what extent do you feel like -- I know production has been pretty strong but what extent there might be more upside? Well I think the guidance we've given is robust.
I think the guidance we've given is going to be in the top of the class.
And we've kind of made a statement in the past Gordon that if we wanted to grow by putting in say we put in another spot crew in for 4 months and we average a number of stages that we complete in a day is say 6 well I can assure you that if that's what we wanted to do that we could really increase our production profile.
So I'm comfortable with the range that we're in and I think you've seen in our past guidance that we have been probably a company that has underpromised and overdelivered and we're not going to change our methodology.
Our next question is from Robert Christensen of Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Can you just please -- and some of my question was previously answered.
But as the next pipeline I'm looking at all the projects that the pipelines are putting up.
How are the negotiations going with these pipelines in terms of getting a deal done? Are you pleased? And could such a thing happen where you'd have a big write-out or 2 out of the area by '15 get some steel in the ground in '14 if you get behind 1 or 2 of these things? And then basically permanently and these worries over basis differentials give us a sense on how it's going.
Yes.
Well I'll start and I'll pass it to Jeff.
But Robert when you look at the space and you look at differentials there's going to be a number of things that between now and '17 and I know that's not the term that you've talked about but between now and '17 now and '16 now and '15 that will make a difference in the takeaway capacity.
In particular up in our area in the northeast.
But if you look at some of the things that are going on away from us and you look at maybe the intangible benefits those are going to have an impact on us also.
There was a question earlier in the Q&amp;A session talked about are there anomalous events that have created a burden on differentials in this period.
Well if you go back and you look at the southwest part of the state there was a period of time that there was a purchase of a lot of the Rex gas to be able to move gas and comingle with the volumes in the market that exasperated if you will the problem.
And some of that was a result of some dominion issues that they had and maintenance things that they had down there.
That had a direct impact during the third quarter that we don't think is going to be another recurring event.
We think that there is a move of foot to reverse Rex and take southwest gas in the west direction.
And we think there's projects that are going to be going down and alleviating some gas that is currently flowing east to flow in other directions from other areas.
We think Gulf Coast gas is going to be finding different homes versus flowing on the long-haul pipes up into the east.
But as far as pipeline negotiations I'll turn it over to Jeff.
And he can maybe make more detailed sense out of what I just said.
Research Division</strong> I'm not trying to invade the propriety of the discussion you may have I'm just trying to get a sense of how much -- how well the discussions are going to maybe take gas to Atlanta for all intents and purposes.
Okay.
Yes it's certainly dynamic times.
It's actually kind of fun at this point to be involved in so many projects and also be in the position to offer up a substantial quantity of gas dedicated to some of these projects.
So we are involved in practically every single one of them in some way shape or form.
We think smaller positions and some make more sense to us.
But we also think the region in general needs a larger stroll out of it.
And there's obviously several very large diameter pipes planned to leave the area.
You mentioned Atlanta.
Obviously there's discussions around that particular city.
There is in Birmingham Alabama all the way from Susquehanna County to Birmingham on the Atlantic Sunrise project that we're very interested in.
First negotiations themselves.
Obviously you want to be involved in a project that you think will work and has constructibility aspects to it.
And also we want to make sure that the pipelines that we participate in are kind of slam dunk in terms of FERC approvals those sorts of things.
So we work very hard to that end to make sure those things happen.
I don't think you'll see those any of the projects that are on the drawing board right now who have progressed to almost to the prefiling stage of FERC be built in 2014.
But I do think in 2014 with the projects that are coming on in November of this year that we'll have spare capacity through that period of time.
That's why we're pretty confident that we're not going to see some of the issues that plagued us in the third quarter.
So with the current spare capacity coming on combined with 2015 projects that we know about and I'll put Constitution out there for just a moment and try to give you a timeline for how these projects get built we came up with a concept the Constitution in November 2011.
So it's been 2 years.
But the good news there is it's just 17 months away.
And in the pipeline world that's not far.
And it's going to open up a whole new world for us and others.
And so these projects are kind of a 3 a 3.5-year horizon on completions.
But keeping in mind the Bcf that's coming on November was started about 3 years ago and here we are.
So they're ongoing.
And again I think we're in a very good position to be able to be a shipper on a number of projects.
Our next question is from Zach Berger of Conatus Capital.
My questions have been answered.
And the next question is from Matt Portillo of TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for me.
In terms of in the Marcellus you mentioned the longer lateral lengths over the next year.
So I was wondering if you could give us some context in relation to your acreage position and how you think about kind of the longer term in terms of the lateral length you're able to achieve.
Is that closer to 5 000 to 6000-foot in lateral length? Or just how should we think about kind of your drilling plans on a go-forward basis? We will be able to achieve over 5 000-foot laterals.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just in regards to your drilling plans next year you mentioned a very robust 180 to 190 wells.
I was wondering how your inventory levels will fluctuate around that and if you guys plan to maintain a similar inventory potentially below down sort of inventory you have or maybe see a little bit of build.
Just trying to get some context around that.
So we'll have -- both areas will have a significant inventories out in front of us the 400-foot spacing in the Eagle Ford.
We have over 500 locations and we have 3 000 locations in the Marcellus.
And we're stacked in multiyear inventory based on the number of wells that we project to drill in '14.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm sorry.
Just -- I apologize.
To clarify that just in regards to the drilling program you mentioned 180 to 190 wells.
How should that compare to the completion side of it? So are you planning to kind of have a one-to-one drill to completion? Or will we expect the inventory to build a little bit next year in the Marcellus? No.
We're going to have 7 rigs running.
So when you drill several wells from a pad and you're -- and you have more rigs say 7 versus 6 we would expect that just by nature you're going to have some drilling activity happening on now 7 pads versus 6 that's going to have wells that will be in the near-term backlog and in the Q waiting to be completed.
So yes we think that will build a little bit.
And we also think that obviously the number of completed wells and completed stages will be increased also.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question for me on the Eagle Ford.
I was just hoping to get an update on how you're thinking about spacing at this point in terms of the spacing between the wellbores and potentially tighter spacing on a go-forward basis? Well there's a lot of different pilot programs being conducted in the Eagle Ford different areas.
Of course each area is unique with its own unique geology.
But we have 400-foot spacing and results from 400-foot spacing that we're comfortable with.
We will try wells slightly closer and see if there's merit to that.
But certainly at this stage we're very comfortable with the data we have at 400 feet.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Dinges for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Thank you Emily.
Appreciate the questions.
I hope that we were able to clarify how we arrived at our projections in our guidance and the supporting data that we used to determine that.
And I think the focus has been for the last 6 or 8 weeks intently on the differentials.
I think if you combined what our program offers and the continuing efficiencies that we deliver in our program not only with the longer laterals and reduced cost but our unit costs are going to continue to go down.
And I think the bottom line and the measure of what you might be able to accomplish and yield return for the shareholders I think should be measured on what you can deliver in your report card at the end of the year.
And with what we've seen in '13 so far and what we see coming in the fourth quarter of '13 I think we will be able to deliver a report card at the end of the year that will be very robust and indicate what type of capital efficiency our program yields.
Additionally with what we see in '14 and the enhancements and improvements we see through our program in '14 I am very confident that we'll be able to deliver an equally impressive report card at the end of '14.
Thanks for your attention.
Goodbye.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
And welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation Fiscal Year End and Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Denise and good morning all.
Thank you for joining us for the call.
I have with me today as usual the executive management team.
Also before we get started the boilerplate language and forward-looking statements included on the press releases to apply to my comments today.
Now let’s go into last night’s press releases.
They included another year of record financial performance record reserve metrics and another new long-term infrastructure solution to move our gas in the Marcellus.
Specifically the financial and operating results were record.
Revenues of $1.7 billion up 45% over the previous high watermark established in 2012 recurring net income and that is net income excluding select items like asset sale gains reached an all-time high of $298.1 million cash flow from operations exceeded $1 billion for the first time as did discretionary cash flow an increase of 57% and 61% respectively over 2012.
Production increased at 55% over 2012 and this was the largest percentage growth we have ever reported and came on the heels as you’re aware of two solid years of 43% growth each.
Most impressive about our recent record growth is that it has been off an increasingly larger base and accomplished by running only five rigs for the majority of the year.
Certainly running five rigs at this production reserve base is the least amount of any of our peers in the basin.
And it is fully funded by operating cash flows and proceeds from non-core asset sales.
Total proved reserves increased 42% over 2012 with no change in percentage mix between our proved developed and our proved undeveloped.
Unit costs another measure of our efficiency including financing dropped 18% to just over $3 per Mcfe in 2012 with total cash cost of $1.46 per Mcfe.
We continue to show a commitment to returning cash to our shareholders by increasing our dividend by 100% and we repurchased $165 million of our shares.
Certainly those metrics without question was Cabot’s best year ever reported.
On the year-end reserves in terms of that report we crossed the 5 Tcf milestone which clearly a significant achievement.
But the manner in which this was accomplished was also significant.
For the last five years Cabot has operated 100% organic drilling effort while simultaneously rationalizing our reserve portfolio.
During this time unit reserves has grown 180% or 23% compounded annual growth rate.
This was after removing 441 Bcfe due to asset sales and de-booking of 559 Bcfe of PUDs from legacy areas in response to SEC rules.
For a total of 1 Tcf that had been removed.
So in light of that and looking at our growth profile it’s truly an impressive effort.
From a finding cost perspective these five years saw an all source finding cost figure of $0.88 per Mcfe in ‘13 Cabot added to its reserves at a $0.55 per Mcfe all source finding cost figure while the Marcellus alone was $0.40 per Mcfe exceeding expectations.
With this latest reserve report Cabot reported an average EUR for our ‘13 program of 16.9 Bcf up from our 13.9 Bcf 2012 program a as another measure our 3.6 Bcf EUR per 1 000 foot of lateral remains best-in-class among key players in the basin.
Certainly also worth noting which we did point out is that the sample approval for the wells that we drilled in the upper Marcellus measures up remarkably well in the same comparison to the entire -- lower Marcellus at a 2.7 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral.
Recently the Pennsylvania DEP released the second half statistics for the entire state and Cabot had its best performance.
We’ve always been a player in the top 10 but this year Cabot had the top 13 wells in the entire Marcellus and we had the top 17 of 20 wells.
As a result of this continued improved performance we increased our reserve bookings on PUD locations in the Marcellus from an EUR of 9 Bcf to 10 Bcf per well.
Our undrilled PUD reserve percentage remained flat at 36% while the overall PUD percentage remained at 41%.
We continue to be fairly conservative in our reserve bookings recognizing a modest 0.7 offset PUD locations for each of our proved developed wells in the Marcellus.
Our year-end reserves were 97% natural gas which is in line with last year’s percentage.
We have continued to lower the breakeven levels for our Marcellus operation as a result of higher EURs and cost savings from increased operating efficiencies resulting in continued improvements of our return profile which has release highlighted now exceeds 100% pretax at $3 realization which is up from 70% compared to our ‘12 program.
Also before we begin discussing guidance I would like to clarify one point from our press release last night.
We had a couple of questions regarding the first half production levels remaining relatively flat were the questions along with the severe weather conditions experienced throughout our operating area came mechanical issues that essentially prevented a somewhat material amount of production from reaching our interstate markets compressor station runtime was definitely impacted from the weather and our midstream provider is still working out the issues to provide expected levels of service.
Now let me move to guidance because of our improved -- improvement in productivity our focus on efficiency and our commitment to physical responsibility we have adjusted our 2014 plan in response to the macro price environment.
Specifically we have elected to stay at eight rigs in our total program which is what we ended at our -- ended ‘13 with which includes six in the Marcellus and two in the Eagle Ford.
And while we will be permitting and be prepared to add additional rigs during the year we are pleased that our revised program spending -- spends less capital but delivers the same absolute midpoint of production guidance.
And this highlights the impact of gains from our overall operating efficiency including pad drilling and the improvements we’re seeing from some of the longer laterals that we drill.
An important note on our production guidance is when you take the corresponding midpoints and we’ve had some questions in this area when you take the corresponding midpoints of guidance issued in September for both ‘13 and the initial ‘14 levels? Those equaled the midpoint of the absolute volume guidance disclosed last night.
The outperformance for ‘13 growth over ‘12 is offset some due to the sale of all of our Mid-Continent properties that we closed as you’re aware in December making the pro forma growth remain at what we guided at 30% to 50% for ‘14 but on absolute terms 25% to 45%.
As it relates to capital the guidance has been reduced reflect one less rig yet partially offset by increased completion activity which is basically reducing our backlog.
So effectively right now we currently have one full year of backlog wells that one rig year would provide for us in the uncompleted category which allows for one rig reduction without any impact to our production.
Additionally and we’ve had got some questions in this area additionally the only impact to ‘15 will be a reduced level of our backlog wells which will not affect our 2015 growth profile.
Going into 2015 we will just have a reduced backlog but will not affect our 2015 expected production levels.
Unit costs were targeted to decline once again by double-digit percentages both for total cost and for cash costs.
In pricing at our last call we discussed desire to have a good cold winter and the farmer’s almanac was correct it did show up and it drove NYMEX prices above everyone’s screen level.
However similar to last fall the NYMEX indication remained strong but most of the underlying sales points have remained under pressure throughout the Marcellus area because of this dynamic we are widening our discount to NYMEX a bit for the year and we’ll provide our views on this quarter.
This dynamic somewhat influenced our operating decision to maintain our rig count as we ended 2013.
As we were very deliberate last September we do not anticipate chasing gas prices lower even having a usually economic project with our economic efficiencies that does not change our operating strategy.
Currently we have approximately 50% of our 2014 anticipated volume sold at an average discount to NYMEX.
During the course of the year we intend to manage price risk through a combination of summer sales and spot sales combined with our current extensive hedge position.
We have continued to look for long-term ways to move gas out of the basin to different market areas.
Last night’s announcement indicates we have been successful in that effort working in tandem with Transco pipeline and Washington Gas Light.
Cabot as a producer has created another long-term opportunity to move gas out of Susquehanna County to one of the fastest growing markets in the country.
To steer both a long-term sales contract of this magnitude plus match up perfectly the required capacities is a unique opportunity for us.
To put this in perspective this venture combined with the Constitution Pipeline will move 1.35 Bcf per day out of Susquehanna County to new and diverse market.
This 1.35 Bcf per day by the way represents 90% of our record level of daily production highlighting the impact to Cabot down the road and we continue to evaluate additional opportunities such as this.
For now however we will continue manage through another cycle as we have done throughout our carriers.
We’ve had number of questions on the timing of Constitution and with regard to Constitution two critical events have occurred since our last call.
First on December 13 2013 FERC issued its schedule notice for the final EIS statement to occur by July 14 2014.
Although FERC’s timeline for approval extended beyond our original target this is great news and a very important milestone.
And as we indicated in our press releases back then by setting this date for July it also moved our in-service date to late ‘15 or possibly ‘16 as Williams indicated in their release yesterday.
Next in moving again to another milestone for Constitution on February 12 2014 FERC issued the draft EIS for Constitution.
This is an important release and was another giant step for the project and puts Constitution very close to its final approvals.
So in summary we just experienced our best year ever.
We continue to be well-positioned with our improving economic and returns affording Cabot the ability to continue with their operating plan a plan that delivers the same absolute production levels from fewer capital dollars in our ‘14 program.
We will put up year end very good financial metrics and we will start the bank with new reserves at the best in class finding cost in the Marcellus.
Denise with that I’ll be more than happy to answer any questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Hi Drew.
I was hoping you would talk about whether there’s anything unusual driving your wider differentials year to date if there’s any infrastructure outages or if this is just more related to volume growth from the region? Well predominantly related to the volume growth in the region.
The differential is a real phenomenon.
We have a plan in place with our exit strategy out of Susquehanna County.
Certainly going to be a little bit of time before we reach that milestone but it’s predominantly related to the growth in the area.
Dan can you give us a sense of what you expect for differentials for the remainder of the year? Well as far as specific differentials when we run our model we have as I mentioned I think in the last call we have over 400 something contracts that are at different price points to.
As opposed to the differential I’ll say it like this that our expectation is that our realized price is going to be north of $3 and under $4 I used the $3 bogey that demonstrates as we’ve mentioned in our release that program is expected to yield in using the differentials that we use in various different scenarios and sensitivities.
We think our program by the end of the year is still going to deliver 100% return metric or greater and that’s kind of how I’d like to catch the differential.
The differential is the 800 pound gorilla in the room right now and everybody’s models are different.
So to catch it in the terms of what we expect our program to deliver it’s a hell of a lot easier for me to discuss that and kind of make a crystal ball guess on what the differential is going to be.
Okay.
And lastly Dan just going back to the flattish production growth in first half you talked about some weather-related issues is there anything else in terms of just field infrastructure that needs to be put in place before you start to grow in the second half or can you provide any more color there? Yeah.
Drew it was mainly a couple of things.
One the weather and we’ve had a significant level in my opinion downtime associated with the compressors out there some weather-related issues.
But it is really more in line with the timing that we had out in the field with the larger pads we’re drilling the timing of those completions of those wells and the expectation which we’ve always had the expectation that a lot of these wells are going to be completed and turned in line kind of in the April May time period when we see a updraft of the number of wells that we’re turning in line.
And in our original guidance that we -- and that we have right now took all this in consideration that this is not the flattish first portion of ‘14 production is not anything -- is not a surprise it’s not an operational issue as far as infrastructure is concerned or anything.
It is impacted a little bit by the downtime on compression.
But it was built into our guidance and we still feel very comfortable with our guidance.
Thanks for that color.
Yeah.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning Dan.
Hi Doug.
Thanks for all the color on the first half.
I guess the commentary about not adding a rig and the backlog that you have currently? I guess basic question is to how you are stacking up the use of cash and relative opportunities within the portfolio? And so I guess my question is with the activity in the Eagle Ford and the fact that you’re not increasing activity in the Marcellus at least not in the first half how do we think about how you reallocate capital and whether or not the Eagle Ford gets a little bit more of a piece of your budget on a go forward basis and I’ve got a follow-up also? Yeah.
Okay Doug.
It is good question.
And as indicated in the past in regard to capital allocation first on the rig portion we have presented yesterday our revised budget to our Board which we do every February.
And through our October budget that we had prepared and gave to the Board and looking at the efficiency gains that we had in the Marcellus area.
We started looking at what we might be able to do with the completions side of our business allocate a little bit more money to completions.
Do not have -- do not add the seventh rig we ran sensitivity to see if we could still deliver a similar production profile and we determined that we could and we also looked at would it affect ‘15 production and we decided it didn’t though it does take our backlog down somewhat and so we were able to reduce our capital program.
In the Eagle Ford Matt and his group have continued to make strides and improvements in our operation there.
But as an example I’ve indicated that once we see consistent results on these longer laterals and IPs and 30-day rates that we will expect then we have that opportunity to deliver more capital.
But to that point we don’t have a lot of new benchmarks on the production profile.
We had just finished drilling our sixth well pad which is the largest pad and kind of one of the ones that we had indicated we’re going to try to get out 8 000 foot or so.
And frankly four of the six were able to get out 8 000 foot or so….
So and the average on that is certainly going to be much longer than the average we have realized for those six wells much longer than the average we’ve realized throughout our program.
But we haven’t fraced those wells yet.
We’re staging up to frac those wells right now.
And if we see good results from that we still have optionality on increasing our level of activity in the Eagle Ford.
Okay.
So you are not ready to step it up yet I guess is the message? Well no.
We are ready to step it up that’s why we got the permits in place and that’s why we have the regulatory requirements in place and now we are going to evaluate the results and flow backs our most aggressive wells to date and make that final determination but we have a teed up Doug.
Okay.
That’s good to know.
Thank you.
If I could go back to Drew’s question on differentials I’m just curious we are starting to reed some issue in the first couple of months of this year.
And I guess we’ve had a couple of discussions as folks know about gas being pulled in at low prices until done by consumers or is that inconsequential in the grand scheme of things? I’m just trying to figure out again the reason for the right differentials given how strong gas has been? I’m sorry Doug in the middle of your question I could not hear it.
I’m sorry.
So I’m trying to -- I’m wondering if storing the release of gas from storage contributed to what you believe is the right differentials in the first couple of months of the year as opposed to adjusting production growth.
Have there been any material storage in this that you are aware of that might have contributed to that? Well I think certainly it had some bearing on it Doug.
But I don’t think it had the majority of bearing on the differentials that we’ve seen.
I think it is more akin to the -- and related to the production growth in the immediate area that has affected the differentials the most.
All right.
I will let someone else jump on.
Thanks Dan.
Thanks guys.
The next question will come from Gordon Douthat of Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning guys.
Question on the Upper Marcellus for you it looked like -- well first off just want to confirm what was your prior EUR estimate for the Upper Marcellus? I think I recall 7 to 9 Bcf.
Is that correct? Yes.
That is correct Gordon.
And then would that be on a 4 100-foot lateral or what lateral length did you drill those wells on? Well the -- one we were fairly conservative I think in our original estimate because we didn’t have as many wells.
We had several more wells now in our sample pool.
So two things one we’re getting good results slightly longer laterals on the numbers that we are giving you.
But we are also now more data points in the Upper and that we’re seeing the consistency on the deliverability 30-day averages and we’re feeling good about it.
Okay.
So 2.7 Bcf per 1 000 foot is probably -- it’s up versus prior estimates anywhere from 40% if my math is correct.
Is that the way you are looking at it? That’s probably close from our original number.
Okay.
And then as we get more into pad drilling how does that -- I know your activity will be concentrated in the lower Marcellus but how does that the Upper factor in as you get more into pad drilling going forward? Yeah.
We have -- one of the things that is really unique if we had -- if we had 20 wells out there 20 rigs out there drilling we would be able to make all kinds of pilot programs and do all kinds of different things and testing this testing that.
But our program is really unique in the sense that we only have six rigs out there in the field and our deliverability is so strong.
We are only going to drill slightly over 100 wells and still be able to grow off of over a Bcf a day.
Again there is not many programs that can deliver that with only six wells.
And so our ability to get to an extensive sample pool for the Upper is just -- it’s pushed out a little bit simply because we are not drilling many wells in the field.
Sure.
And then last question for me is on share buybacks.
Where do you stand with that going forward? Well we have -- Scott and I’ve visited about that earlier today.
We looked at all these reports that everybody put out and it was pretty clear that you could flip a coin 10 times and it would be 50-50 on whether or not there was going to be a negative outlook for us or a positive outlook because of operations.
And we know we have some differentials that will affect the realized price like I said our realized price that we think we’ll receive when all the dust settles will be between the $3 and $4.
And our program delivers over a 100% return in that bandwidth.
But we know that there is going to be investors that look at the differential and with the uncertainty and nobody’s crystal ball is exact that our -- the volatility in Cabot is probably going to be recognized.
We traded 12 million shares yesterday.
But with that volatility and our position we certainly see an opportunity that’s not too far off that we are going to be able to move a significant volume of our gas out of the basin to different price points.
And this is a finite period of time that we are dealing with this differential concern that’s been expressed out there.
So on share buybacks if it does get soft we’ll do just as we did in ‘13.
We’ll step in and we will buy our shares back and be happy to do it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question will come from Biju Perincheril of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Couple of questions related to reserves.
First I guess first is an update on the Lower Marcellus in-flow test that you announced in December as far as how those wells are holding up relative to the parent wells? I’m sorry Biju.
Which wells? The infill wells the 500-feet apart between laterals that you announced in December? Yeah.
They are doing good.
They are on our curve pit.
Probably a couple of them above our curve pit.
Compared to the 16.9 Bcf EUR? That’s right.
Okay.
And so compared to that 3.6 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral what was the -- do you have a number for those or…? 3.6 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral.
It will have a number for…? For the infill wells? No no.
I don’t have that.
Okay.
Okay.
But you are not seeing anything significant degradation in EURs compared to the wider spaced wells is that…? No.
In fact our one report I can’t remember whose it was -- I read a report that somebody questioned the 10-well pad and I had a hard time understanding the concern for that particular report.
We’re very pleased with the 10-well pad.
We’re very pleased with what we’ve seen in the spacing.
And we have compared to our EURs compared to how it fits into our overall program the numbers that we’ve laid out.
We’re very pleased with that pad.
Okay.
That’s good.
So how does your drilling program then changes based on then are you in terms of wells that are going to be spaced 500-feet between laterals versus a 1 000 feet? We are on our plan and going to six rigs.
Phil has had to adjust his schedule a little bit just because of how we are still capturing primary term acreage out there.
Keep in mind Biju 60% of our program compared to the mid-20% of our program in ‘13.
60% of our ‘14 program will be drilling on pads that have five or more wells.
And we are going to continue down-spacing our wells on those pads differently from the 1 000 foot spacing.
Okay.
Good.
And then on reserves I guess in the prior years you’ve mentioned that you had only booked about 0.7 PUD locations per PDC in the Marcellus.
Is that sort of the same ratio again this year? Yes.
Yes it is.
In fact that is at Biju 0.7 offset PUD locations for each well we booked.
Okay.
And then since I was coming up with… Let me add to that we did raise the amount of reserves we’re placing on a PUD from 9 Bcf to 10 Bcf.
All right.
Right.
Okay.
And again that’s sort of like I guess sort of a placeholder number until you have the lateral length design there.
So on the locations that you’ve booked I’m estimating something like you have a little more than 300 PDC locations and a little more than 200 PUD locations in total in the Marcellus now.
Is that -- am I in the ballpark? Yeah that’s ballpark.
Okay.
Okay.
And then so I guess with the success you now have in the Upper Marcellus I guess you have a higher confidence in that 3 000 location total you’ve talked about from before? Absolutely we have -- the Upper Marcellus has begun on a course just as our Lower Marcellus did.
Keep in mind several years ago before we had the data we started out bookings of less than 5 Bcf per Lower Marcellus well.
And we have stepped that up to fairly robust type of wells.
We have limited data though more data than we had last year in the Lower Marcellus and some plumbing in the Upper Marcellus.
And we have some flow history from those wells now and I think you are saying that we are in the middle of marching that number up.
All right.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Gil Yang of Discern.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hi Gil.
Hi Dan.
The EUR per 1 000 foot was up about 6% when I do the math.
But you increased the number of stages per foot so to speak by about 12%.
Are you beginning to see a convergence in terms of the benefits you are getting from the tighter frac spacing or do you think there is much more to go in that opportunity? Again keep in mind that we like everything we are seeing on the curve fit early time on our down-spacing.
Down-spacing regardless of where you are down-spacing is a pilot programs takes time to fill it way out and see the ultimate results of that down-spacing.
And right now all we can say because that’s all we have is that we’re very pleased with the down-spacing and it’s fitting what our expectations would be on a curve pit.
That would not indicate we should have concerns about how far we’ve down spaced those wells.
Dan you’re talking about -- just to be clear you’re talking about -- I was asking about the frac spacing in terms of the on one lateral 200-foot versus the 220.
Is that what you were referring to in the down-spacing? No.
I’m sorry Gil.
I was talking about the distance between laterals.
I wasn’t talking about frac clusters.
I misunderstood your question.
No I was just asking that as you put the frac clusters tighter together you put 12%.
You decreased the spacing between the clusters by about 12%.
But the EURs per 1 000 foot went up by about 6%.
So it sounds like you’re getting to a regime where the frac clusters are interfering with each other? No.
It’s just -- those numbers I think Gil are within the tolerance.
Those guys are continuing looking at our completion efforts.
And I’m comfortable with where the numbers are and what they’re doing.
Between 12% and 6% I think our standard deviation is pretty tight.
Okay.
Okay.
And so maybe there’s some opportunity to put them even tighter than 200-foot? Well let’s back up our ways.
We had at one time -- we went all the way down to about 150-foot.
And we don’t have many samples of that and the completion techniques are modified just a little bit continuously as we go whether it’s pump pressures or amount of propane or whatever.
But -- I know Phil is and Phil is with us today.
He came in for a Board Meeting obviously yesterday and his guys are always looking at ways to improve.
And they only have a number of different things that they’re doing out there on a stage here or stage there a well here a well there.
But we’ll continue to look at how we can squeeze efficiencies.
Okay.
Great.
And just second question is the $0.76 cash cost in the Marcellus could you break that into the direct operating cost and transportation and anything else? I’m kind of looking at Scott.
What’s your question Gil? The $0.76 you highlighted for the Marcellus cash costs can you just break that down into its components? I can give you total company.
Total Company kind of LOE is anticipated this year to be $0.25.
Transportation has a low $0.60 number on it because of one of the dynamics.
We have some transportation agreements in the south that are now being captured in that line for the oil pipelines that we’ve had in place for a year or so and taxes and other income of $0.05.
All right.
Thanks.
Thanks Gil.
The next question will come from Bob Brackett of Sanford Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
A quick one and maybe a longer one.
The quick one do you guys quote your exit rate for end of 2013 anywhere? No we have not quoted that Bob.
Okay.
Then that was the short one.
The longer one given how big you are in Northeast PA have you ever looked at the elasticity of your price versus supply and could you guys literally kind of choke back pads put less supply into the grid but earn a higher revenue? Well since we run a number of sensitivities and we always do with our budget and price tag.
And in your example if you make the assumption that we’ve reduced to a certain level and price is a corresponding rebound then certainly that would hold true in practice and actuality would that result happen.
I couldn’t tell you but I can say this Bob that if prices get too bad for us we will manage our operation practice and we’ll manage our assets.
And we did that last year when the day markets on the smaller percentage of our gas that we sold in the day market differentials got too high.
We said we weren’t going to sell that gas into the day market.
But again from our expectation and what we’ve guided on both our ability to continue to grow at the levels we’ve discussed and our ability to manage the differential concern in a way that would allow us to realize between 3 and 4 bucks.
I’m comfortable with that.
Okay.
And you are comfortable that you can kind of reduce production without damaging any of the reservoirs or the program? Absolutely yeah.
One of the things Bob in our reservoir that I think does make that call a lot easier than it might be in other reservoirs is keep in mind that we are dry gas.
We’re about 1 020 Mmbtu quality gas and it is a very -- there’s not any liquids in the water liquids in the reservoir.
And typically if you have concerns in opening up and shutting in opening up shutting in and let them sit for a while typically it’s been my experience that you would have more concerns in reservoirs that you have a liquid component to it than if you were doing that in a dry gas reservoir.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Marshall Carver of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
You’ll be working through your completions backlog this year next.
How many wells or stages should be put online this year versus next year assuming you keep running the six rigs through next year? Well we’ll have -- in ‘14 we’ll have over 3 000 right at upper 2 000 wells or frac stages put on anywhere from 2 600 2 800 something like that and we haven’t given any guidance for ‘15.
If you run the same number of rigs would it probably be about the same number is that a reasonable assumption? Well if we ran the same number of rigs in ‘15.
Right.
If we ran six rigs in ‘15 it depends on how far down we took our backlog that we will have going into ‘15 and towards the end of ‘15.
We would still have -- again my point I made earlier about keeping our rig count the same and still growing our production profile.
If we go into ‘15 we’ll have a short a smaller backlog but we’re still going to have a significant backlog going into ‘15.
If we keep the same number of rigs and we continue to chip away at the backlog we can still complete the same number of stages or more with the same number of rigs.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
On the weather-related downtime and compression station runtime in Q1 and Q2 this year do you have a feel for how much did that impacted production and how many million a day was impacted in Q1 and what you’re factoring in for Q2? Yeah.
I don’t have it at my fingertips Marshall at this time.
But there were days that we were 100 million down 150 million down and then other days we were 25 million down.
So as a swag number 75 million a day plus or minus.
For each quarter… Well we’re still in the -- for the first couple of months of ‘14 Marshall.
Okay.
And final question on the Upper Marcellus will that start to get significant capital or will it still be a very -- when would you expect it to -- significant number of wells drilled there? Well operation prudence dictates that we complete from the bottom up.
We are now again not fully maximizing the number of wells that we ultimately anticipate drilling per pad.
Though we are drilling more wells from multi-pad as indicated by 60% of our program drilling from pad sites that will have five or more wells.
But along with that being said we will continue to look at various different points that will place Upper Marcellus wells just to continue gathering our data base.
But again operation prudence says complete the lower wells first and then move up and complete the upper wells at a later date.
Again without full pad development yet majority of our wells will continue to be lower Marcellus wells.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Brian.
You talked on how you’d relook at differentials quarterly in your view there.
How does that impact how your capital allocation process works and what you need to see to add another rig.
Maybe a better way to ask you what differential should we expect when your long-term solutions like Constitution are in place and do you see keeping your rate count flat until then? There is not going to be a lot of swing in our budget in the first half of ‘14 typically when we’ve made some adjustments it’s been in the second half of the year.
And I would expect that ‘14 will be no different than that.
When you look at what our expectation would be on a forward look in differentials keep in mind just the two deals -- really three deals that we’ve announced the Constitution the Cove Point deal and the most recent deal we’ve made with Transco and Washington Light that’s 1.35 Bcf a day and that is moving to -- and you can go to indexes aside from some of the current ones on Transco Leidy or the Tennessee Line.
And as you move away from those two lines it is apparent that the differentials improve considerably in different markets and price points.
And all of that gas that I’m talking about in these new ventures will be at different price points than what we experienced today.
I guess when you layer in the transport cost associated with that what does that gets you back to you may have mentioned I think a $3 to $4 number in terms of whether that was in reference to an ultimate realization earlier in the call.
Maybe you could add some color on that? Well on the transportation side of the business our transportation cost for this is not going to be much different than any transportation deal or firm transportation arrangement that’s being executed across the basin today.
So whatever realizations that you see out there to different price points that would be equivalent to the price points that we’re going into whether it’s air core line or the non-New York area that we might be going into.
Those are going to be similar to our expectations also on realizations.
Thanks.
And then lastly on the stock buyback what should we expect going forward do you ultimately -- do you see ultimately your buyback program including what was done in the fourth quarter of ‘13 exceeding your asset sale proceeds? It could.
We’re going to go through the year and we’ll make that decision more opportunistically and again the value of Cabot what we see going forward though we have some of the headwinds that we’ve all been discussing facing us today.
I see those headwinds as a finite period of time and I’ve held shares in this company for greater than 10 years.
I continue to hold a considerable amount of shares in Cabot and I’m happy to do that.
I have no plans of selling those shares and in fact if we got beat up too much around the years I’d add to my position personally.
So I see us having a significant opportunity behind the headwinds that we face in the differential side.
And I’m optimistic that the market is going to rationalize the differential and there’s billions of dollars spent to redirect gas and to rebalance the market in a way that is going to again capture the efficiencies and that’s always been the case.
I was disappointed that Constitution slid out a little bit just by the timing of the July release versus the May release by FERC but we’ll deal with it.
Again I’m here for the long-term and we’ll deal with that.
And we’ll manage our program in a prudent manner as we always have.
And frankly we’ll still be able to deliver not only an operationally impressive program but a financially impressive program at year end.
Thanks Dan Yeah.
Thank you Brian.
The next question will come from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Dan.
You’d anniversary your team there.
I wonder if we could just pick up on that point about Constitution a bit.
Can you -- I’m recognizing that Williams is the operator there.
Can you maybe be a bit more explicit in what you are current plans reflect on when that line will come in to service for you.
And could you possibly talk about some of the -- if there is any local permitting that you still have in front of you or if you are really this -- what you got last week with EIS is really the last definitive thing to look at? Yeah.
I’m going to pass this to Jeff real quick.
My comment on the timing that we’re working with as I have stated in this comment teleconference here that later ‘15 is our hope that we would be able to secure all the remaining permits and some being local and the outside would be moving into ‘16 a little bit.
I’ll let Jeff make any comment that you might have? As you know we all knew this would be a three year process with the FERC and way they operate and quite frankly we are very pleased now the FERC has handled this process and the issuance of their schedule and the issuance of the draft EIS.
Those are all very very positive steps.
In terms of the schedule itself I’m sure you read Williams’ transcript or heard it yesterday they also are very pleased with how the process has been working on the federal level.
They have some feedback as the operator that -- and that is -- has shared that with some of the owners or with the owners that there is a little bit of a resistance at the state level in getting some permits generated from the EC.
So that’s something that Williams is working through on the government relation side on the regulatory side and continue to get updates from them.
But the process is working good but it does take state permits as well as federal permits to get its project built.
Got it.
Got it.
Thank you.
Yeah even I had seen that yesterday so I was curious kind of how you -- if you guys had any different take on it but that’s good color Jeff.
Thank you.
Then is it -- would it be right to think that Constitution is -- I don’t want to say getting less important but it’s maybe just one of -- that in light of these bigger -- or more recent deals you guys have signed for additional takeaway out of the area that it’s more becoming one of many solutions rather than the kind of -- the sole most important project or is it still the biggest thing for you guys? Well it’s the nearest term Charles.
And the other projects in addition to what we just announced that Jeff looks at and continues to try to find ways to move our gas and we have found additional pathways for our over 400 million cubic foot of gas and being able to keep moving our gas into the marketplace.
But it is certainly our objective to be able to move gas on as many pipes as we can which eliminates or alleviates and mitigates what we’re experiencing today and that is just with a couple of pipelines going out of a high supply area that it pushes the gas on gas competition in the center stage.
But we do have a vision out in front of us that we’re going to be accessing what has typically been very very good supply base or demand areas and very good price points.
And we know where we’re going is also expanding demand areas that will bode well for the future.
Thanks for taking that question Dan Jeff I appreciate it.
Thanks Charles.
The next question will come from Jack Aydin of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Hi Jack.
Good.Thanks.
Most of the questions were answered but just a couple ones.
What are you budgeting for well cost on the longer lateral for 2014? Jack between 6 point the end of Marcellus.
Yes.
And coincidentally in the Eagle Ford $6.8 million to $7 million? Okay.
Now if I look at the data what you said you have about 200 PUDs booked at 10-b.
And then you are drilling about 100 wells with more -- extended lateral of closer to 5 000 and using the 3.6 b per 1 000 foot.
Are you going to revise your EUR per wells mid-year or you are going to wait until the year end? We’ll continue with our MO and that is looking at year end before we do any major -- we actually do any public reserve announcements.
Okay.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Thank you Jack.
The next question will come from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers Investment.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Dan I’d like to return to the Eagle Ford.
Your recent 2014 Eagle Ford guidance was for 40 to 50 wells.
Does the 50 well count reflect pushing the paddle if the six well pad results are positive or could we get beyond 50 Eagle Ford wells if the pad is successful? We could get with our guidance right now what we’ve done.
We could -- if we added depending on timing and other rig we could ramp up and frankly on our guidance right now Jeffrey.
We are kind of at 36 to 38 type of Eagle Ford wells right now.
So and that’s incorporated already in our guidance.
So moving that up to even 50 would be an impactful move for our current guidance.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
That’s helpful.
This is a little bit broader but your current discussion of the Eagle Ford pad drilling is highlighting increased lateral length.
When do you think Eagle Ford downspacing test might be relevant to think about? Jeff we were -- we have already had quite a bit of production coming from downspaced laterals at 400 feet.
And even though we have some term on those we are very comfortable at 400 feet.
We will be doing some pilots at 300 feet.
Okay.
And my last question is really pretty broad but I just wanted to kind of ask it and that’s with the Marcellus significantly outperforming the Eagle Ford on returns.
Can you give us some idea of what’s the objective of current new ventures -- the new ventures program and what are you looking for how actively is it out there…? Yeah our new ventures program has really consisted with a greenfield effort as opposed to allocating a lot of time and resources to look at buying into existing areas.
We don’t feel that a buy-in to existing areas would yield a return profile that would meet our expectations.
The greenfield effort continues.
We have as I’ve mentioned before multiple areas where we have 25 000 30 000 acres that we have under lease.
And we will be utilizing a expiration wedge out of our capital of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion.
We’ll utilize that expiration wedge to further evaluate whether or not these greenfield areas will compete for future capital.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
That’s it for me.
Thanks Jeffrey.
Our next question will come from Matt Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt</strong> Good morning guys.
Two quick questions for me just in terms of the Upper Marcellus I wanted to get a little bit more color on how you think about the consistency across your acreage given your well control.
Well keep in mind our well control on the Upper Marcellus is extensive and it’s across our entire position that we think there is a similar consistency in the Upper Marcellus as we have in the lower Marcellus across our position.
What we don’t have in the Upper Marcellus that we do have in the Lower Marcellus is just the production data.
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
And then my second question moves to 2015 marketing and as you guys have mentioned you’ll be watching the gas price to determine your acceleration plans but how do you guys think about kind of the 2015 market dynamics as you look at incremental takeaway capacity from the basin and kind of with the market as it stands today should we be expecting a relatively flat rig count or is there a potential for acceleration as you see some incremental pipes coming onstream? Yeah.
I think everybody is going to be looking at the effects on differentials in every part of the Marcellus Southwest and Northeast; Northeast certainly getting the majority of the attention and the most differential impact today.
But I think everybody is trying to guestimate what type of impact the midstream market and new takeaways are going to have on the market.
From where it is kind of today I think it is only going to improve as you are able to access additional markets as the demand continues to improve in areas that not only are currently being served but the new markets are going to be established on new infrastructure build out.
And certainly there is going to be an impact from the LNG facilities that will start coming on stream as we look out into later part of ‘15.
So I think all these dynamics are going to improve price points in different areas.
And again our objective has been not only for ‘15 but what we are trying to do in ‘14 marketing our gas but ‘15 certainly holds true and beyond.
We’re trying to access different markets to mitigate.
Our singular price points every way we can.
We don’t have singular price points right now but you get the impact what I’m saying.
Pickering Holt</strong> Great.
One last quick question for me you guys continue to see your rates of return improve with tighter spacing and longer laterals.
I was hoping if you get just maybe a bigger picture of you over the next years as to why you think your lateral lengths could move to in play as you kind of look at your total acreage position.
Thank you.
Well we e think certainly ‘14 is going to be longer laterals than ‘13.
And I don’t have that exact comparison for ‘15 program but suffice it to say that our objective will be to lay out operational program in a way that will maximize the efficiencies of our dollar.
Pickering Holt</strong> Thank you.
Thanks Matt.
Ladies and gentlemen that will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Dinges for his closing remarks.
No thank you Denise.
I appreciate everybody’s patience and the questions hopefully clarify some of the points that everybody had.
I kind of equate this period and again I identified it as a finite period because I do believe as we move out into the mid-term that we’re going to be able to eliminate some of the questions that we have.
Certainly mitigate the questions we have on the differential and then kind of equate it similar to the way I’m looking at my views in the political life and what this country has faced.
Every day I look at it from a political standpoint; every day that we’re getting closer and closer to an environment that will be more suited for my beliefs.
And I’m looking forward also operationally for Cabot as we move forward to not only our infrastructure buildout and commissioning but also as the midstream market continues to have projects that would build out this market.
I think we have significantly better days and more optimistic outlook out in front of us.
So appreciate everybody’s patience and we’ll look forward to the next quarter call.
Thank you Denise.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today’s presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings conference call.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Should you need assistance please signal a conference specialist by pressing the star key followed by zero.
After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
To ask a question you may press star then one on a touchtone phone.
To withdraw your question please press star and then two.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Emily and good morning to all.
Appreciate you joining us for this call.
I do have several of the Cabot executive team members with me today.
Before we start let me say the standard boilerplate language on the forward-looking statements included in the press release does apply to my comments today.
To begin I’d like to first touch on a few of the financial and operating highlights from the first quarter that were outlined in this morning’s press release and those are that production during the first quarter averaged 1 332 million cubic foot per day an increase of 34% over the first quarter of 2013.
As we guided on the year-end call in February this volume is relatively flat to our fourth quarter production levels which was primarily a result of compressor station downtime in the Marcellus due to the severe weather we had and the number of wells we had scheduled to turn in line.
When adjusting for our mid-cont and West Texas asset sales in the fourth quarter of last year we grew the daily production by a few percentage sequentially.
Discretionary cash flow for the quarter was approximately $320 million an increase of 36% compared to the first quarter of ’13 and a 12% increase over the fourth quarter.
Net income excluding select items was approximately $110 million an increase of over 100% compared to the first quarter of ’13 and a 47% increase over the fourth quarter.
These record-setting metrics were further enhanced on a per-share basis due to our reduction in shares outstanding resulting from our repurchase of 4.8 million shares in the fourth quarter of last year.
Of significant note and I do think worth repeating during the first week of this month we reached a milestone in the field of 1Bcf of cumulative gross production for these assets which is particularly impressive given we began flowing production from our first Marcellus well less than six years ago and we have never operated more than six rigs or produced from more than 290 horizontal wells in the play during this time – certainly a milestone that recognizes the productivity of these unique assets.
There’s not going to be many assets out there that can boast those numbers.
Operationally we do continue to demonstrate best-in-class execution across both our areas we’re allocating capital and that’s in the Marcellus and Eagle Ford program.
In the Marcellus we averaged slightly over 1.2Bcf per day of net production during the first quarter in spite of the previously mentioned midstream challenges during the quarter including a slow-down in infrastructure build-out affecting our ability to connect new wells.
As a result we turned in line only eight wells during the quarter which included a three-well pad that was turned in line at the end of the quarter which is producing over 50 million cubic foot per day.
As discussed on the year-end call our production growth for 2014 is weighted more to the second half of the year; however we do expect higher sequential growth in the second quarter versus the flattish production profile we had discussed on the year-end call.
The second quarter has started off stronger with Cabot averaging approximately 1.48Bcf per day of gross production in the Marcellus an increase of about 5% over the first quarter average.
We plan to place approximately 15 wells on production during the second quarter all of which will commence in either May or June.
Moving to the Eagle Ford we also have good news to report in that area.
We completed our first six-well pad at the beginning of this month and have been very impressed with the results.
The six wells had an average completed lateral link of about 6 700 feet and were completed with an average of 25 stages.
The wells achieved an average peak 24-hour IP rate of 1 045 Boe per day per well with an 89% oil cut.
As a result of the continued drilling and completion efficiencies associated with our pad drilling efforts we realized approximately $600 000 of cost savings per well.
As a result of the improvements our team has made both on the production side as well as the cost side we have decided to add a third rig beginning in the third quarter.
The implied returns on our recent wells exceed 60% at $90 which we believe warrants the additional capital allocation.
A typical well in the Eagle Ford has an EUR of approximately 500 000 Boe with a completed well cost of less than $7 million based on approximately a 7 000 foot completed lateral.
While still early the wells that we had just announced in the six-well pad are outperforming this type curve.
The addition of a third rig is accretive to our company’s net asset value and will add high-margin growth to our production profile; however since the additional rig will be focused on multi-pads and we’ll be bringing it in in the third quarter it is expected to have minimal impact on 2014 production but should have meaningful add to our estimated oil production volumes in 2015.
We recently added about 4 000 net acres to our Eagle Ford position through our organic leasing efforts and we will continue to actively lease in the area.
Now let me move to pricing.
It’s a mainstay now on our Cabot teleconference.
In the press release we mentioned and indicated the Marcellus differential of $0.60 to $0.65 for January and February and those levels held for the remainder of the first quarter.
As we anticipated and which had been outlined in our recent investor presentations the spread widened in April as certain winter contracts rolled off.
For the month of April we have seen realized prices in the Marcellus before the impact of hedges of about $0.75 to $0.80 below the NYMEX.
Much of that was driven by winder first of month index prices on Tennessee and lighty (ph); however the daily cash price for those pipes have improved during April compared to the last six months.
We believe the stronger cash price can be possibly attributed to the increased demand from storage refill which in turn may be the reason we are seeing bids for term gas become more attractive.
It’s still early in the injection season so we will continue to monitor this dynamic as we move into the summer months.
For any additional information on pricing points and our firm capacity and firm sales please see our current investor presentation on our website.
I would also be remiss if I failed to mention how the pricing dynamic should improve once Constitution pipeline is in service and we are able to deliver 500 million per day of our production to premium markets via the Iroquois system that will head both north and south and into the Tennessee 200 line which will move to Boston.
This outlook continues to improve with the Atlantic Sunrise project scheduled for the second half of ’17.
You may recall this new pipeline will deliver 850 million cubic foot per day of our previously sold gas to multiple new markets including new pricing locations.
On the Constitution update we continue to see additional progress as we work towards final approval.
You will recall that FERC issued a very favorable draft environment impact statement back on February 12.
A public comment period deadline was also established for April 7 and despite several parties’ requests for extensions none were authorized by FERC.
The FERC has established June 13 as the date for its planned issuance of the final environment impact statement for the project.
The subsequent 90-day federal authorization decision deadline is set for September 11 with the final FERC order as early as mid-October of this year.
In conjunction with the FERC process Constitution filed for its New York DEC permit back in August of 2013.
Constitution continues to fulfill its obligation to answer the data request by the New York DEC as they process the application and work towards the issue of a final permit.
On the financial side and subsequent to the quarter-end our lenders under the credit facility approved an increase in the company’s borrowing base from $2.3 billion to $3.1 billion as part of an annual redetermination process.
While commitments currently remain unchanged at $1.4 billion the increase allows for increased flexibility for share repurchases which will continue as an opportunistic decision based on relative valuations between the market and the internal view on intrinsic value.
We have not to date this year made any share repurchases.
The guidance as it relates to our capital guidance we have increased our capital program slightly to accommodate the third rig in the Eagle Ford to $1.375 billion to $1.475 billion.
We also have tightened our production guidance range for the year to 530 to 585 Bcfe and that does translate and still implies a 35% production growth at midpoint.
We remain confident that we will be able to continue to grow our volumes throughout the year and into next year.
In the Marcellus we are currently producing about 1.5Bcf per day of gross volumes.
Last month we added 70 million per day of additional Millennium capacity and we will add an incremental 150 million per day of additional firm capacity on Millennium in September.
In addition to those volumes we will be connecting our infrastructure directly to the largest LDC in the area beginning in the fourth quarter which will allow for an additional 200 million cubic foot per day of new capacity.
Based on this incremental capacity and addition to what we know about expansion projects like the Tennessee Rose Lake project which will add about 250 million per day to the system the recently announced open season on Millennium for about 120 million per day and the opportunity to increase our market share on three major pipes in the area we do remain confident that we can continue to grow our Marcellus production levels in ’14 and beyond.
Concurrently we will be growing our high margin oil production in the Eagle Ford also.
As a result of our confidence we are providing initial 2015 production guidance of 20 to 30%.
This guidance is predicated on an average of 2Bcf of daily gross Marcellus volumes through ’15 a level we are very comfortable with and which may ultimately prove to be conservative.
Additionally this program would generate free cash flow in 2015 even if you do assume an all-in natural gas price realization of 350 and an oil price realization of $90.
As for ’16 assuming a Constitution in-service date of late ’15 or early ’16 we expect another year of top tier growth for Cabot as we begin delivering 500 million cubic foot a day to new markets.
In addition to the incremental volumes on Constitution we will also be adding 125 million per day of new long-term firm sales associated with Transco’s southeast expansion project and 50 million cubic foot per day of new capacity on Columbia’s east side expansion all of which are expected to be in service during the fourth quarter of next year.
In summary while we’ve been very clear that 2014 and 2015 will be somewhat challenged as it relates to the pricing dynamics in the Marcellus we are more confident than ever that the quality of our assets and the long-term value proposition for shareholders is very strong.
Even with these near term challenges we will still provide top tier production and reserve growth while spending within cash flow – again not many companies can make that statement.
With over 20 years of inventory remaining in the best natural gas assets in the U.S.
a sizeable portfolio of new firm becoming available to us over the next couple of years and an improving position in the Eagle Ford we believe the future of Cabot is as bright as it’s ever been.
Emily with that I’ll be able to answer any questions.
Good morning.
Dan can you walk us through kind of the puts and takes that you go through when considering whether to enter into a long-term takeaway agreement out of the Marcellus? For example kind of weighing the cost of a new greenfield pipeline and the optical advantage now for investors as seeing firm takeaway capacity versus say locking the company into a disadvantageous pricing arrangement longer term especially if there might be excess takeaway capacity out of the Marcellus later in the decade.
Well I’ll let Jeff kind of cover some of that Pearce.
Okay Pearce as we’ve talked before our valuation and whether to enter into long-term firm sales versus long-term transport contracts versus participating in a pipeline for new takeaway – I mean all those factors are evaluated with each decision.
I think early on we made a lot of good decisions on our long-term sales contracts got way ahead of the game because the pricing was very favorable.
I think in the last six months or so we have slowed down considerably on entering into anything long-term that’s a price disadvantage as you called it.
As you know we opted for a new pipeline expansion coming out of Susquehanna County thus the new 30 (indiscernible) that will go down to the DC area and on to Cove Point and as it worked out for us from a netback perspective that was a very very favorable deal so each deal stands on its own merits.
The new transport we picked up on Millennium does a lot of good things for us gets us to places that previously we had been unable to move our gas towards at higher pricing points.
So each case is different but for the most part it’s evaluated along with all of our other options.
Thank you for that.
My follow-up is Dan do you see any new horizontal potential on any of your legacy West Virginia acreage that traditionally was targeting the Devonian Shale or the Big Lime with the brea formations and then how much acreage do you have there? Well in West Virginia we have still approximately a million acres in West Virginia and that’s held by production we had previously in some of those shallow zones Pearce before we started developing the Marcellus.
We had drilled several horizontal wells and that opportunity still remains in West Virginia.
We have an evaluation process ongoing with our assets in West Virginia.
We had recently permitted a well in the West Virginia area and we will continue to look at enhancement opportunities on that acreage.
So to answer your question just succinctly yes we do think there are opportunities to drill horizontal wells in some of the areas in West Virginia.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Pearce.
Thank you good morning.
You talked to a number of the opportunities outside of Constitution where you’re adding capacity having signed some midstream agreements – the Tennessee Rose Lake the open season on Millennium and then the increase in market shares on three major pipes among them.
Can you provide a little bit more color on what the expected realized pricing is and transport costs associated with those non-Constitution related opportunities and how widespread do you see additional opportunity from here? I’ll let Jeff make the overall comment Brian but I will say that our price points are tied to different indices and those indices are variable if you will out there on what the future realizations are going to be.
But I’ll let Jeff answer.
Okay Brian.
To begin with the comment that we made in the speech on Rose Lake was just another example of how there’s new capacity opening up on Tennessee that allows for additional volumes to flow on that particular pipeline so we didn’t participate as a shipper but we are selling gas to people who will participate as a shipper.
Number two I guess is the other ancillary contracts that we have picked up in order to move gas from one basin to another.
The pricing points all vary transport costs all vary.
For us it’s all about netback – it’s about assumptions that we make on the pricing locations and how that works to our best interest in getting the highest price for product.
So each case is different.
The Millennium capacity is fairly cheap as existing capacity.
As you know expansion capacity up there in new pipe is generally in the $0.50 to $0.60 range but new pipe gets you a big advantage as another straw out of Susquehanna County.
So we look at all those factors when making those decisions.
This is probably a follow-up for Jeff – as you look at future opportunities for signing midstream agreements are you—where do you see those opportunities regionally? Do you see them and are you more—do you see more opportunities to stick within the northeast and get it to the markets that Constitution is tapping into like New England or do you see more opportunities emerging to go to the Gulf Coast and the southeast or Midwest? It’s really more a question on are there still incremental opportunities in the northeast or are you really being forced to look more at the Gulf Coast? No I think there are still additional opportunities in the northeast.
As you know and if you look at our slide on the routes that Cabot Gas can reach and the markets that it can reach we intend to be very very active in Canada at Waddington – it’s in the far north part of the eastern part of the United States.
We expect to supply a lot of gas into the Boston area and then coming south New York Jersey Connecticut – all those areas.
Mid-Atlantic the DC area we’ve been very active down in the Carolinas into the Piedmont market very active.
That’s a huge market – that’s a third of the country’s population and we think we can reach out to all those areas.
And you know of course we do have backhaul transport that takes us back in the Appalachian area into the Columbia pricing locations so that’s a lot of market.
We think we have access—better access than most producers in northeast PA.
Geographically we’re situated very well.
I think the southwest PA producers have opportunity in the Gulf Coast.
We have not ruled out though and are talking with markets in the Gulf Coast about transportation paths and how our Marcellus gas can fit in with their plans.
Thanks.
And Dan a very quick last question – can you comment on share repurchase? For share repurchase we have not been in the market yet Brian.
We have—as we’ve mentioned we’ve evaluated the noise in this very short period of time from our last conference call.
We’ve been active in preparing a rather lengthy internal look at the future on all of our projects opportunities and sensitivities on accelerated projects on price point sensitivities on the macro market.
We’ve spent a great deal of internal time focused on that.
We have our board meeting coming up.
It’s our intent to have some of this played out at our board meeting.
But in the meantime looking at the market and looking at the swings in the market as I’d said earlier the volatility is going to dissipate a little bit before we get into the market but it is my expectation still that we will be in the market at some point.
Thank you.
Good morning gentlemen and thanks for taking my questions.
Dan I was wondering if we could go back a bit to some of your prepared remarks your comments about the assumptions you were making for the 2015 growth.
I believe I heard you say that the 20 to 30% growth rate is predicated on 2Bcf gross a day in ’15.
When I look at your growth it seems that you probably hit that in 1Q ’15 or maybe 2Q ’15.
Is that a fair guess or are you thinking that you’re going to be 2Bcf flat? Well no that’s a fair guess; and again it’s an early guidance.
We typically put our guidance out later in the year.
We’ve had enough questions and concern attached with what our confidence level is in our growth profile.
We wanted to get it out there and as I mentioned in my comments Charles that we are entirely comfortable at this level of growth.
If you just look at our exit rate that we anticipate in ’14 and you carry that forward into ’15 you can get within that fairway of 20 to 30% growth in ’15 and that’s why I added to the comments that it may prove to be conservative at that level.
Right right.
And also as you noted you’d have free cash even at a 350 realized and I think with all the—maybe another cut at Brian Singer’s question you’ve talked a bit about what your posture is – and this may be too far down the road – but you’ve talked a bit about what your posture is right now.
But as you go into a year from now or even nine months from now when Constitution—you know the pipe’s in the ground and you get more confidence about what your ’16 growth is going to look like that’s where you’re really going to have— Some opportunities.
Yeah yeah.
So is that the time frame when you think that when you’re doing all this internal work right now is it really the time to pounce is going to be about 12 months from now? Well we—and the reason for the extended look and being more granular at our extended look was to stack up all of the opportunities that we had in front of us and that we have in front of us and to look at the planning that we want to do right now in moving forward to one be able to have the right staffing; two to be able to plan for the right services and personnel to be able to assure program execution to be able to achieve those levels.
We know the assets can deliver; we’re entirely comfortable with our asset pool and the results of our wells and our consistency of cost in drilling wells but we do want to put together the whole program in a—let’s say a more detailed fashion than we have in the past.
We’re excited about when we stack up all these opportunities and it looks at the new markets that we’re going to be able to access and making some of the assumptions that you do on price points that we’re getting to with our new gas it’s a robust program.
Thanks for those added comments Dan.
Thanks Charles.
Thank you good morning everybody.
So Dan are you expecting in 2015 that you will have quarterly growth through 2015 or you’re not expecting it at this point? And if that is your expectation give us what gives you the confidence in terms of aren’t the pipes full? You know how can you actually move the gas? Well I think you’ve seen each—and I’ll pitch it to Jeff after I make a comment but I think you’ve seen in just about each quarterly conference call we come out and announce some type of capacity additions that we’ve added to the plan.
We think we’ll be able to continue to do that.
In regard to just keeping the production flat and what it is quarterly right now Joe our expectation is 2Bcf and whether we go from a 1.8 1.9Bcf a day to a 2.1Bcf a day to the end of the year I’m comfortable at saying the average is going to be 2Bcf-plus and how it rolls through the year is going to be sequential growth but I don’t have it that granular at this time.
And Jeff you want to make— Yes.
Joe this is Jeff.
I think two parts to your question – one if I understood correctly shorter term versus longer term.
In shorter term we tried to lay out in the speech that we have picked up additional capacity that was existing capacity on Millennium – 70 000 last month and an incremental 150 coming up.
We laid out a plan that actually connects our infrastructure in Pennsylvania to the state’s largest utility up there and we have already entered into sales agreements with them.
There’s additional capacity coming up on all the pipes that we operate on so shorter term when I say next 18 months we’re not in the same camp as what you refer to as aren’t all the pipes full.
We are not in that camp.
Longer term is definitely Constitution a big 30-inch pipe that is going to take us to two new markets—or three new markets two new interstates and the central Penn part of Atlantic Sunrise and those big 30-inch pipes are coming out of operating area so we feel real good about Years 3 4 and 5 from now that we’ll be able to grow.
Have you guys put in some cushion for any shut-ins or any downtime? I think last year you had some shut-ins.
Yeah we typically always risk our production profile as we do with our EURs and as we also put in a little bit of contingency in our AFEs.
Got you.
Hey Scott also—I mean a separate question this might be for Scott.
The DD&amp;A showed a nice drop from the fourth quarter to the first quarter on a Mcfe basis.
What should we read from that nice drop in DD&amp;A? Well that’s the year-end true-up Joe from all the final year-end reserve reports and when our property accountants go through and repopulate the database and that’s the rate going forward now; and that’s why we also adjusted the top end of the guidance down.
Okay great very helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
I was wondering if I could change topics just a wee bit Dan onto the Eagle Ford.
Obviously you’re adding a rig there now but I’m just curious as to how you’re seeing the backlog the location count and ultimately how more aggressive do you think you can be over time in terms of acreage opportunities and ultimately continuing to shift the balance of your spending towards that area.
And I’ve got a quick follow-up on the Marcellus please.
Okay Doug.
Yeah again as you saw the numbers and as we reported they’re good numbers.
They are meeting or exceeding our expectations to continue to allocate capital.
We feel comfortable allocating the third rig.
We feel comfortable being able to acquire additional acreage to bolt on.
Our location count in the Eagle Ford is probably 500 600 locations or so and that certainly includes our Presidio area also.
So once we get our arms around this third rig I think it’s intuitive to think that we would also look at an expanded program and possibly to a fourth rig also in the Eagle Ford particularly as we continue to acquire acreage.
So how should we think about the priority for allocating cash thinking Marcellus Eagle Ford and buybacks if you could deal with those three in some kind of order and maybe acreage acquisitions added in there as well.
Well on the capital allocation to the Marcellus we have put together a six-rig program and basically a two-rig or two-crew completion pumping services and we’re rolling that forward with that program.
So from a bottoms-up build that gives us a pretty good handle in our cost consistency there it gives us a good handle on the amount of capital necessary to allocate to achieve that program.
When you look at the Eagle Ford and we go to a three-well program that’s a fairly easy number to get to also on what we’d be allocating.
From a priority standpoint our operations program is where we’re going to be allocating a program as opposed to a share buyback.
But when you look at going to a split we’ll probably be again 65% plus or minus to the Marcellus in ‘14 as a year-end guesstimate and the rest will be allocated to the Eagle Ford and some of the other projects that we have on the slate that are more exploratory in nature.
Going into our ’15 program again we haven’t put the capital allocation out there right yet but going into the ’15 program I would think that our capital allocation would go into a 55% plus or minus 60% plus or minus in the Marcellus and the remainder going towards the Eagle Ford and the additional exploratory projects or exploitation projects that we’re working on.
I don’t suppose that you’d like to elaborate on any of those additional projects at this point Dan? Nice try Doug.
Okay thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Good morning.
I was just wondering in terms of the visibility for capacity additions to get to that 2Bcf how far along are you in negotiations or what’s the visibility on those specific projects? Do you have them in mind they’re on a checklist or is it more advanced than that or less advanced than that in terms of your targeting for those incremental adds? Sure Gil.
I think for the most part we’re close and we’ll take a few pieces of capacity we’re working with other shippers on to—you know just to make sure in getting to that comfort zone that we have exactly what we need.
Going forward it looks very favorable.
We’re not concerned about not flowing that amount of gas.
Great okay.
And then a second question on the Eagle Ford – the counties that the six-well pad was on and—can you comment on that? Those are some of the best wells you’ve drilled at least on a test basis.
Would you assign that to the pad drilling and pad fracking or is there something different going on in either the geology or the completion design that’s helping? Yeah the majority of our acreage is in Frio County.
We have the extended lateral—as far as a pad one it was the largest number of wells we’ve drilled from one pad on average for wells located in close proximity.
It is certainly the longest laterals that we have used.
The density or spacing of the frack stages came down a little bit also from our average of our prior wells and in fact we will probably have a little bit further reduction in our frack stage spacing as we roll forward to evaluate the efficiency gains that we might be able to derive from that.
What was the stage spacing that you—I think I can figure it out because you use 25 stages so that’s— Yeah so it’s a little over 250.
And what was it prior to that? We were probably closer to 275 to 300.
Okay great.
Thank you very much Dan.
Thanks good morning.
I was trying to understand the size of the term market that was in your initial discussion that might be reflecting storage refill demand and how predictable that term market might be how it fits into your growth profile if at all.
This is Jeff again.
I think the comment we made about the storage refill was just to indicate how strong daily cash prices have been up in the northeast part of the Marcellus.
Comparatively speaking cash has been very strong for the last month or so and we’re expecting the cash market to stay strong throughout the storage refill period.
That has led to an improvement in the term market being the summer market maybe the one-year market maybe going out the next couple years for basis differentials in finite term contracts.
As little as six weeks eight weeks ago the summer on certain price was trading $1.75 under NYMEX for example.
Today that’s probably $1 under NYMEX so there has been strength in the marketplace for the term business aspect and it looks like it’s going to continue.
I guess to put it another way the spot market/interruptibles how big is that and how can you take advantage of that on a sort of ongoing basis – for instance these cash sales can you grow above and beyond the firm? I think everyone looks at the presentation they see the firm and they just sort of expect that you can’t produce a single molecule over on top of that.
There was a company yesterday whose strategy is not to tie up firm because they believe—they're in a different part of the play but they believe that the Marcellus will be over-infrastructured within 18 months.
They don’t want to lock up that way.
So how do we sort of get that confidence that there is that—you know a cash market or some sort of interruptible market beyond the firm on Page 5 of your presentation? Okay a couple points on that.
I think there is a chance that infrastructure could be over-built in 18 months or two years – I would agree with that in both southwest PA and northeast PA.
We have taken an approach where we have tied up certain volumes of our gas – and this is again on the website presentation – certain volumes of our gas into long-term contracts and those long-term contracts those customers are using their firm transport their firm takeaway to take that gas to their city gates.
The second approach was to purchase firm transport and again those numbers are available to you on the presentation.
Those volumes are—we control and we move those molecules to certain locations for better pricing of course.
And then the third aspect of our marketing approach has been to enter into spot sales – those are typically 30-day sales summer sales April through October winter period sales November through March (indiscernible) gas cash sales.
And I don’t think we’re unlike a lot of producers – we have a portfolio of options and that’s our approach to marketing each month.
The producer that you mentioned or I’ve heard that producers are—or some producers say simply we will produce our gas to the amount of firm we own.
We’ve taken a little different approach to that.
We’re looking at all aspects of the market opportunities that are sitting there in front of us and I think for the most part we have a little advantage in that we’re delivering gas to three major interstate pipelines.
We’re not married to one and the infrastructure that we’ve designed gives us flexibility to move gas between those pipelines based on pricing and pipeline pressures.
And with the addition of Constitution it’s going to take us of course to Interstates No.
4 and 5 and then Atlantic Sunrise to Interstate 6 and 7.
So having seven interstate markets and again attached to one of the largest utilities or the largest utility in the state gives us a lot more options and opportunities.
Okay.
If I could ask one last question on the matter and I’ll promise to jump off so the three paths there—you know long-term contracts to those with firm purchase your own firm and spot is there a way to quantify perhaps on an annual basis how big that spot market is for you specifically or for the sector? That would be difficult and I’ll explain why.
I think the buyers of gas both industrials and utilities they’re all different.
They all take different approaches and they all have different buying habits purchasing habits.
When you throw in the mix of power plants then it really gets confusing as to who’s using what capacity on what day to get to what market.
For the most part we have very consistent day sales.
We know—we have markets that count on us for gas and I think other producers take the same approach; but to quantify who is using what on what day during what period of time during the year would be difficult.
Okay understood.
Thank you very much.
Good morning.
Dan it appears it’s taking at least three months to get a new rig running in the Eagle Ford.
Is that based on internal capital logistics or is that based on rig availability? No it’s based on us just getting the locations in order the permits squared and our services all lined up but it’s not because of rig availability.
Okay.
And kind of thinking forward on that locations point with the addition of the third rig is the strategy to execute the longer lateral closer spacing method throughout the aerial extent of your acreage or are you concentrating on a core area? No our wells are fairly scattered throughout our area so the intent is to continue to try to capture the efficiencies by multi-pad longer laterals frack stage density.
We think that we’re gaining—making progress on that and that will be throughout our acreage.
Okay.
Yeah that was what I wanted to hear.
My last question is assuming you’ve reached free cash flow in 2015 will you seek to maintain free cash flow going forward from that point? Well I think by virtue of our growth expectations I definitely think that we will.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
Hi good morning.
A quick question about Marcellus inventory.
Can you give us an idea of how many wells you have drilled uncompleted how many wells completed waiting tie-in and maybe even if you didn’t have midstream constraints what your flows could look like? Okay.
On the well side we have about 22 wells that are waiting on pipeline.
We have five wells that we are currently completing and we have 24 wells that are waiting on completion.
So we have a pretty good backlog right now; and again we knew that we would be building up quite a backlog at this period of time and from this point forward we’re going to be moving through those and working those numbers down.
And what could your system run if there wasn’t a midstream constraint? I don’t know.
We have—I can’t think of a day when I look at my daily drilling report I can’t think of a day that we have not seen a compressor down or a dehy down or something like that.
That’s just the nature of the beast and there’s just a lot of moving parts and a large gathering infrastructure system like that.
So it’d be rate speculation but I’m sure it would be—you know we’ve hit over 1.5Bcf.
I think the record was 1.538 or something close to that.
I’m sure if we had things just humming along and we had the compressors tuned up the way we want them we’d be well over 1.6Bcf a day.
Thank you.
Hey Dan hi group.
How are you guys? Good.
How many frack stages do you have waiting? And then I’m looking—you know you’re going to drill about 155 to 170 wells and lots of those coming maybe in the second half of the year.
So I run the numbers in a way your 2015 guidance granted has some upside but it looks like quite conservative maybe.
Could you— Yeah.
Well we have—again we have—as I mentioned the number of wells that we are either completing waiting on pipeline or waiting on completion it’s 51 wells and that’s probably over 1 400 stages Jack right now that we have in the queue.
So the good news is that we’ve been able to continue our production profile we’ve been able to sequentially grow though slightly.
We’ve been able to sequentially grow our production from last quarter and we did it with only bringing on—with eight wells that we brought on for the quarter.
We’re going to double the amount of wells that we bring on in the second quarter and we will continue to increase the number of wells that we plan on bringing on in the third quarter and fourth quarter from what we realized in the first and second quarter.
So we are going to go into ’15 in very good shape as far as what we think our production profile will be and what we plan on still having remaining in inventory.
We are in good shape.
I feel very good about it and because of our efficiencies that we’ve been able to gain with the drill time and continue doing good along those lines that’s why we made the decision to only have six rigs versus having to increase the number of rigs there.
Second question – you have the permit in West Virginia in Wood County.
What are you really looking for there? Are you looking for the Point Pleasant in that test potential test or what other things you feel that you have there? Oh bottom line Jack we’re looking for oil and gas.
We are extending a look at the play south where the drilling has been and we think our fairway is in the volatile window and we think that we have an opportunity there.
So yes that is the section—one of the sections that we’re looking at.
Thank you.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Good morning.
How are you doing David? Good good.
Could you give us a sense in your 2015 production guidance what your assumptions are for transportation or maybe just in general what you’re thinking about the differentials as we roll through next year? Well the differentials are a hard number to get.
We think that the differential is going to be somewhat similar to what we’re experiencing today.
On our production guidance we’ve had some discussion on the capacity that we now maintain firm transportation firm sales and the additional capacity that we expect to add to our inventory.
As Jeff mentioned to get to the 2Bcf level it’s probably 100 million 150 million of additional work or capacity or sales that we would realize in addition to our firm that would get us to the 2Bcf mark.
All right great.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question – wanted to clarify I heard a lot of great detail on the kind of capacity you guys have signed up or are looking to sign up.
Could you just put that into context relative to the presentation you guys had out a couple months ago where you laid out kind of your 2015 firm capacity at I think about 1.1Bcf a day.
Could you just give us some color of how much that’s changed on a relative basis and where we sit at the moment? Sure Matt.
This is Jeff.
It definitely has improved on the—the numbers have improved somewhat from that presentation.
I wouldn’t say they’ve improved a great deal.
We have a lot of deals that we’re working on that we’re close to racking up.
We have some opportunities that we know that are out there that we’re close to racking up.
Probably the biggest number add to the slide is our new capacity into the utility there in northeast PA and now that will be added to that chart at some point.
Great.
And then as we think about kind of your 2015 guidance could you give us some rough color on how you guys think about—I know you’ve laid out lighty and Zone 4 previously and it’s about 45% or so of your ’14 production in terms of exposure there.
How does that look kind of currently in 2015 just from a rough estimate perspective? I haven’t broken that out.
We can get back to you on that on an exact percentage but we’re going to be growing the production so that number will probably increase slightly.
I’ll have to get back and I’m sure you’ll see it Matt in one of our future presentations once we get more granular on our ’15 guidance.
Perfect.
And then just last question for me – was hoping that you could talk a little bit about the organic leasing opportunity you see today within the Eagle Ford and then any appetite in regards to M&amp;A in the basin.
Thank you.
Okay Matt.
Organic leasing – it is what it is.
We continue to talk to owners of the unleased acreage out there and we think there’s an opportunity to pick up additional acreage.
As far as M&amp;A activity in the basin I think there are some opportunities to pick up some small professionals that own acreage out there and if the opportunity arises we’d look at it.
Some of the pricing that we’ve seen in the M&amp;A side of the business has been fairly robust and we think the capital efficiency of our organic approach is more prudent for us at this stage.
Thank you very much.
I’m sure that this has been asked 100 ways but I’m just wondering—you know people are really worried about pricing.
I wonder what price do you see where you cut back production and just wait until you get better pricing with better takeaway? I don’t know if I’m phrasing that question in a way that I can get an answer.
Well Wayne it is hard to pick a price that you say that you’re going to just shut in production particularly with the yield that we get from a fairly low price point.
But—so I’m not going to state just a price that we’re going to shut in but if the market looks like it’s behaving in a way that it would be prudent for us to shut in gas today and sell it near term then we look at that.
But we don’t have any plans right now to shut in any large volumes of gas with the market that we see out in front of us.
Let me just try to rephrase that a little bit differently then.
We all know the gas is there – I mean you have the best rock in the country probably and you’ve got a takeaway capacity right now that’s going to get alleviated and therefore the differentials that you’re seeing now should dissipate over time.
Isn’t there—don’t you earn more money by producing less gas now selling at a low price and just producing more gas in two years? I mean you’re going to get much closer to Henry hub.
Well I think there is an equation you can run Wayne that would get you to that point; but at this stage again our realization was 374 for this last quarter and we are delivering a good return.
We’re putting that capital to use that’s delivering again a return profile for example adding the third rig in the Eagle Ford that is generating a nice return with those invested dollars.
But I do understand your question and certainly it’s an equation that we can run; for example if we were getting close to flipping the switch on Constitution and it was just a significant blowout and somebody wanted us to move gas for a buck we’re not going to move it for a buck.
We’ll wait to open the capacity of Constitution and start selling our gas into a different market that would not be realizing those prices.
So I understand your question and there’s merit to it it’s just right now— And is there some—is there some price-limiting factor to how low a price can go in your market or you’re kind of—I mean there’s really nothing to stop it from trading at a dollar or two in a bad part of the market.
Well I think if you look at all of the producers out there we’re not the only one selling into these markets.
When you look at the amount of gas that’s going into Tennessee or going into lighty there’s gasses from a lot of different price points not just up in the box up in northeast PA but there’s other gas flowing into those pipes to saturate the market.
So I think there is a price out there that the industry would say we’re just not going to move our gas for that.
It’s more valuable than that and we’re just not going to move it.
So there is that price point.
What it is exactly $1 or $1.50 I don’t know where it might be - $2? But there is certainly a price point that I think a number of producers would say we’re just not going to move our gas at that price.
All right thanks a lot.
I’m sure everybody has got the same basic question.
Yeah.
Thank you Wayne.
Yeah thanks again.
So just Dan in thinking about your ability to take on some extra capacity if there is extra capacity in the system why are the differentials around negative $0.70? I’m just trying to get my head around that.
I try to get my head around it also and one of the things that we’re looking at and I’ll pitch this to Jeff that digs deeper than I but when you look at some of the differentials and you see how the indices are established you have really very few contracts that are capturing volumes out there that are setting the index and what supposedly two parties a buyer and seller are willing to move gas for.
I question the differentials and particularly the number of contracts that are steering a large volume of gas and we’re looking into the transparency of all of the transactions though right now being able to have access to a buyer and a seller from my understanding at this stage of my look is that those are confidential parties.
But I’m looking at it to try to understand it a little bit more in detail also.
Yeah Joe I think the improvement we’ve seen in pricing has a couple factors that have influenced it.
One has been the winter.
There is good price realization going on in the cash market as we mentioned before.
I think the demand and the actual people who burn the gas at some point they come into the equation.
Yes there is excess capacity up there but just how much more incremental demand is there at certain parts of the year? So I would—I realize that we expected improvement in the differentials when we had a good winter and they did improve.
They didn’t improve all the way up to a flat Henry hub-type number.
I think we’re struggling to understand completely the dynamics of that.
One of the approaches for us has been to make sure that not only do we have firm transport but the firm sales and particularly our last deal with Cove Point and Washington Gas to make sure that we actually had someone that burns the gas.
I mean having an 850 million a day 15 20-year contract for people that do burn it was very important to us.
So yeah I agree with you.
I don’t understand exactly the dynamics that would cause a $0.70 differential at this point but it has been a big improvement over the last 60 days.
So how much of the incremental capacity that you expect to take over the next several months how much of that is actually new capacity and how much of it is you actually just taking someone else’s capacity? So for example that 150 million a day from Millennium in September that’s new capacity? No that was existing capacity just hadn’t been sold yet or—excuse me just hadn’t been bought yet and we bought it.
The utility sales are new incremental to us.
I think there is existing capacity and there is pipe and the way we work the system and the way the system works is the capacity that we pick up could be one-year in duration two years five years in duration.
It could be 15 years with evergreen provisions.
It could come from someone who bought it and it’s just red ink to them or it could be expansion capacity.
There’s a lot of deals and transactions made in the secondary capacity release market and we continually work that.
We do take capacity in short-term releases as well when they net us back our prices.
So again there’s a lot of capacity in those pipes.
Sometimes it takes you to places you don’t want to go.
Sometimes it doesn’t start where you want it to start.
So for all the producers in the Marcellus as a whole there’s a constant jockeying around of positions on capacities to make sure that gas flows every day and netbacks are as high as they can be.
So is the only new capacity that you mention of all the different agreements that you’re entering into is the only new one the 120 million a day open season that’s Millennium’s having? Okay so that capacity—you say it’s new.
It’s new the marketplace; it’s existing in the pipe.
I mean it’s confusing terms.
We’re out there.
We’ve put a bid in to take some of that capacity.
We didn’t want it all because some of it doesn’t do us any good.
And likewise when Transco went out last month with 200 000 a day of capacity for a shorter term – I think it was a nine-month term – we took part of that capacity.
It’s an ongoing process and I think all the pipes use their resources to try to increase their throughput.
They’re constantly looking at ways to add capacity to the system and as contracts get taken it actually opens up—it could open up space for paths to move in different directions.
So it’s something that all producers and shippers and markets face on a day-to-day basis.
Got you okay.
Very helpful thank you.
Well I appreciate everybody’s interest.
Obviously the conversations regarding the movement of gas and our ability to grow is on everybody’s mind.
I can assure you we’re confident that we will be able to deliver within our guidance point; otherwise we would not put those guidance points out.
But when you look at what we have to be able to deliver in the future we’re going to I think comfortably deliver top tier production growth not only in the next few years but moving out.
We’ll also have reserve growth that will be very robust.
We’ll do it in a free cash flow environment and that gives us certainly confidence that we’re going to be able to continue to enhance shareholder value on out into the future and it certainly should give the shareholders confidence that the asset package we have will be able to deliver that value.
So again thanks for the questions and we will see you next quarter.
Thank you Emily.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO of Cabot Oil &amp; Gas.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Youssef and good morning to all.
I appreciate you joining us for this second quarter call.
With me today as usual I do have several members of the Cabot executive team.
And also before we get started the standard boilerplate the forward-looking statements included in the releases do apply to my comments today.
First I'd like to touch upon a few of the financial and operating highlights from the second quarter that were outlined in this morning's release I think all of which indicates some positive numbers.
Equivalent net production for the second quarter was 1.402 million -- excuse me 1 402 million cubic foot per day an increase of 34% over the prior year's comparable quarter.
This also represents a 5% sequential increase over the first quarter driven by a 4% increase in daily natural gas volumes and a 39% increase in daily liquid volumes.
Of particular note oil production for the quarter increased 65% compared to the prior year's comparable quarter when adjusting for last year's mid-continent and West Texas asset sales.
Year-to-date our equivalent production is up 34% compared to last year in line with our current guidance.
Discretionary cash flow for the quarter was approximately $332 million an increase of 12% compared to the second quarter of '13.
And then for the quarter Cabot generated approximately $50 million of free cash flow highlighting the capital efficiency of our program and that's despite the lower natural gas prices.
Net income excluding selected items for the second quarter was $115 million an increase of 21% compared to the second quarter of 2013.
Our unit cost another area of improvement continues to trend down decreasing 16% year-over-year to $2.59 per Mcfe with per unit cash cost of only $1.27 per Mcfe.
Let's move to the region.
First the Marcellus.
The company continues to experience exceptional well productivity as evidenced by the step-out results that were reported in today's press release.
The consistency of our acreage to the north and east while we expected these results was confirmed by the step-out wells.
It is still early in the production cycle some of these wells but we are pleased with the results today and expect the EURs per foot on these wells to be in line with our well results we reported at year end.
Net production for the field was 1.26 Bcf per day up 4% over the first quarter but did fall a little bit short of our internal expectations.
This shortfall was exclusively a result of the ongoing issues directly related to gathering operations and not related to well performance.
As we pointed out in the first quarter Williams had experienced significant downtime with their operations during the extreme winter conditions.
Unfortunately some difficulties persisted throughout the second quarter which were unrelated to weather.
We have been in constant contact with Williams and have recently seen operational improvements.
However throughout our discussions with Williams we have made it very clear exactly what our expectations are moving forward and we do believe Williams' operating results will continue to improve.
Despite this unexpected dynamic Cabot still achieved the midpoint of its production growth guidance for the first 6 months of '14 and we reaffirm our production guidance for the remaining 6 months of '14 and the full year of 2015.
During the third quarter approximately 60 000 horsepower of additional compression will be added to our gathering system.
This new capacity will alleviate high line pressure in certain areas and will also provide for compressor redundancies throughout the system.
Having this spare capacity will definitely mitigate a significant amount of the compressor downtime experienced during the first half of the year.
We continue to operate 6 rigs in the Marcellus and expect to hold that rig count flat through 2015 based on our current operating plan.
We plan to drill and complete approximately 60 additional wells during the second half of 2014.
It certainly is nice to be able to operate only 6 rigs in a field and deliver top-tier production growth of such a large production profile.
Now let's move to the Eagle Ford where we had some highlights.
Our Eagle Ford team continues to work to maximize drilling and completion efficiencies in our core Buckhorn position in the oil window of the Eagle Ford.
As a reminder we currently have over 53 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford with approximately 43 000 net acres at our Buckhorn prospect which is located predominantly in Frio and Atascosa Counties.
Cabot has 3 rigs drilling in the field and by the end of the third quarter all 3 rigs will be converted to walking rigs capable of effective efficient pad drilling.
Pad development equates to drilling and completion cost savings in excess of $500 000 per well and the facility cost attached to pad development is a cost savings in excess of $200 000 per well on a multi-pad site.
The team has shown significant performance improvements in 2014 which has been driven by the continued optimization of our drilling and completion operations in the play some of the recent initiatives including drilling longer laterals reducing the spacing between frac stages and increasing the amount of proppant per foot.
For the first half of 2014 our typical well was more than 25% longer than our average well drilled in '13.
We have further reduced our stage spacing in the Eagle Ford and modified the proppant size we use in our frac jobs both of which have resulted in a significant increase in fracture conductivity.
In the second quarter our average stage spacing decreased 15% compared to the average spacing for our '13 program.
This equates to more stages per well and more proppant per lateral foot.
In '14 we have also increased our proppant per foot by 15% to 20% over our 2013 levels.
On the efficiency front also we continue to see an improvement in drilling days and drilling cost per foot.
In fact recently we achieved a new record for us for drilling days drilling to TD in only 7 days for a 6 400-foot lateral well.
As we highlighted in the press release during the quarter we placed 10 wells on production that have now produced for at least 30 days.
These wells achieved an average 30-day production rate of 840 Boe per day per well with a 92% oil cut from an average lateral length of 6 700 feet.
The approximate well cost of these wells is about $7 million.
Certainly these wells are trending above our $500 000 barrels per BO -- per well EUR.
We also recently drilled and completed our first 300-foot down-spaced well and have been pleased with the results to date.
We will continue to monitor the production profile from this pad and have additional 300-foot space wells planned for the rest of our 2014 program.
300-foot downspacing could increase our location count at Buckhorn by 25% to 30%.
While we did not add a material amount of new Eagle Ford acreage during the quarter we do continue to assess different opportunities throughout the trend and anticipate adding more meaningful to our position throughout the balance of the year.
And now the remainder of my comments will be addressed to answer the possible questions we might have.
In regard to pricing we were certainly all aware of the pricing dynamics surrounding the Marcellus and it continues to put pressure on the differentials throughout the Northeast United States and the overall weakness realized -- in realized gas prices affecting all of the Marcellus and Utica producers.
Cabot certainly is in this same position.
As we continue to experience differentials that can be attributed to continued growth of supply increased demand in the in-service of new long haul pipes designated to take Marcellus gas out of the region will certainly help the differentials.
As we explained on our last call we had certain winter contracts roll-off prior to April 1 and we anticipated slightly weaker realized prices for the summer period.
As expected for the second quarter our realized prices before the impact of hedges averaged $0.89 below NYMEX which is in line with the guidance we provided in our investor presentation.
We expect our realized price point to be reduced slightly in the third quarter and expect to see improvement as we enter the traditional heating season.
Moving to Constitution Pipeline update.
We continue to make additional progress as we await the issuance of the final Environmental Impact Statement.
The project is moving ahead on all fronts as Constitution continues to acquire additional survey permits right-of-ways and permits required to begin construction schedule for early 2015.
We continue to see frequent updates from the Constitution team at Williams.
And despite the delay we saw in FERC's issuance of the final EIS there has been no change to the expected in-service date that Williams provided us back in December of '13.
As a result we remain optimistic for an in-service date of late 2015 to early 2016 but we do recognize several approval milestones do need to be met.
In regard to share repurchases anticipating that question share repurchases are still part of our capital allocation discussion internally.
Year-to-date we have not repurchased any shares.
Currently management is focused on balancing long-term development opportunities with share repurchases.
Our near-term share repurchase activity will be coordinated with the success of additional acreage acquisitions and the corresponding acceleration opportunities on any of that new acreage we will acquire and certainly the share price is of consideration also.
In summary even in this challenged pricing environment we continue to generate growth in earnings and cash flow led by our top-tier production growth.
Current natural gas price realizations certainly while not robust are still manageable and allow us to generate best-in-class returns.
And add to this the fact that our efforts in the Eagle Ford will continue to deliver strong oil growth with our efficiency improvements and results.
Plus in an expanded rig count in the second half of the year you will see these strong oil production growth.
So what can you expect from Cabot is that we will continue to deliver strong production growth.
We'll maintain a very efficient capital program with excellent returns despite the differential effects.
We'll add significantly to our reserve book.
We'll capture margins with our continuing efficiency gains and operations and unit costs and we will continue our efforts to expand our investment focus.
Youssef with that myself or the management team will be happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Dan I want to say I think with your last comments there I think a lot of us me included scratched off a lot of the questions that we had planned.
So I think you maybe -- there's been a theme on recent calls.
So it's -- thanks for addressing that.
I want to if I could get you to decompose a bit the results on those 3 pads with the 191 stages.
I know you said that they're in line with the estimates.
And I guess that means your EUR for year end.
But can you discuss at all maybe some of the variability that -- when you're with North and it got thinner or when you went East if there's any variance around that 1.25 Mmcf per stage? Well there's not a lot of variance and each well can be unique in its own way Charles.
When you -- and that statement is consistent with the other areas we've drilled also.
We have to make sure that we stay within the exact zone that we select.
Down south where it's a little bit thicker we have a little bit more leeway to stay within that zone.
But certainly the thickness does not diminish significantly to the north just slightly and where we stay very vigilant on making sure that we stay within the zone that we're trying to target.
But aside from that we've been very pleased with the results.
The frac spacing that we continue to play with between 150- and 200-foot space fracs we're toying with and continuing to gather data in that regard.
The flow back process that we employ up to the north and east has been similar.
The type of frac we put on the wells was similar with the amount of proppant per stage and the pump pressures that we utilize.
And the type of proppant has been consistent.
So we are not seeing again any differences in either way either it's our implementation and how we drilled a well except being more vigilant and staying in zone but our completion techniques in operation side is consistent.
Flowback is the same and as indicated the results are good.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Well that's great.
I imagine you have to be quite pleased with that consistency.
And if I could just take one follow-up on the Eagle Ford if I remember correctly I think that on your last call Dan you were talking about that your organic kind of lease acquisition efforts were underway.
And that I think you indicated that was your focus.
Is that still -- is that correct? And if so is that still your posture? Or are you may be looking more at maybe some producing property packages as some people exit the play? Yes.
Well we have evaluated through our internal team not only the primary term or open acreage out there but certainly on small bolt-on type of opportunities we evaluate also.
Those bolt-on opportunities could come in the form of either just acreage or it could come with a little bit of production but we're evaluating both.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you're agnostic on that.
It's just -- you're just looking for value and how it fits with your existing position? Exactly.
Our next question comes from Joe Allman with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about the differential the gas differential so far in July? And then Dan what are your expectations for the differential cash differential in 2015? Well I'll let Jeff field that.
But I will say this just from an overall standpoint that the differential by itself is going to be a certainly a moving target.
But the differential will also be -- the final differential would be -- or the final realization would be affected also by the price of NYMEX.
So as you see the fluctuations in NYMEX I think you'll see the fluctuations also in what the exact differential will be.
But I'll let Jeff answer the question in regard to the July and '15.
Okay Joe.
I'm glad that -- excuse me I'm glad that Dan led in with that quick summary on the differences that we expect to see between the differentials on our higher NYMEX number rather than our lower NYMEX number.
July did come in slightly less than our average for the second quarter.
That said we've sort of expected that.
We also expect that to continue as we reach the winter season.
Again weather will play a role here and if we see a normal winter to a good winter like we saw last year we expect the differentials to strengthen a little bit.
As far as 2015 goes personally I don't see much difference between that year and this year in terms of differentials but again a lot of that has to do with this winter and the weather we will experience then.
Research Division</strong> Okay no that's helpful.
And then a question on Constitution so what are the key hurdles that can affect whether that really comes on in late '15 early '16 or if it's delayed? Okay Joe.
This is Jeff again.
Yes the primary key hurdle is the final EIS statement.
We expect that out in the next 2 4 weeks or so.
The certificate will follow under a normal process.
With that along the same path we'll be -- and have been working with the New York DEC and the PA DEP on getting the permits necessary for our construction.
But the final EIS is a significant event and our expectations are we'll see that on schedule.
And the in-service date at this point like Dan mentioned in his speech is still scheduled late '15 or early '16.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then lastly just with Eagle Ford.
I mean Dan it sounds as if you're planning on adding a significant amount of acreage in the Eagle Ford and you previously talked about just some bolt-ons or potentially some production added with that.
But are you also considering a bigger asset acquisition or might even consider a corporate acquisition? Well right now we're looking at the asset acquisition being in the form of whether it's just additional leases or small bolt-on type of opportunities.
The reason is very clear.
If you look at our results that we've been able to post with the type of wells that we're drilling the efficiency gains that we've had that I've mentioned on the drill side and completion side.
We have had in our investor presentation on a typical 500 000 EUR-type well will cost $7 million and our lateral length being in this type well being consistent with the lateral length in the number of stages that we've done on our last 10 wells.
At $90 we did over 60% return on that type of well.
Two things in regard to these 10 wells.
The 10 wells are trending above this type curve for the Eagle Ford economics that we have presented.
And certainly our realized price is higher than the $90 that we've represented to get over that 60% return.
So we are looking at the additional opportunities out there with a economic improvements that we've seen and the efficiency improvements that we've seen to take advantage of any additional acreage we can fund.
Our next question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you'd address the takeaway situation.
Obviously there's a huge amount of demand for additional long-haul pipe out of Appalachia in general.
I'm just curious for your position specifically.
Have you examined building your own midstream solutions out in Northeast PA? And I'm thinking really in addition to Constitution? Yes we have -- certainly Constitution we've talked about.
Everybody's aware of it that the commissioning of that particular pipeline will give Cabot an additional 500 million cubic foot net a day of gas going through to a different price point.
We have also -- are participating in the Central Penn pipeline which is scheduled for the latter part of '17.
Our participation in that is a -- if you will a midstream investment.
But more importantly we're the foundation shipper on that particular Central Penn pipeline and that will allow us to move an incremental 850 million cubic foot a day.
And again an anticipated commissioning of that in the latter part of '17.
And I might add that certainly we're very in tune.
Jeff stays up-to-date on every moving part out there in the midstream market and we have ongoing discussions with how we're going to continue to move our gas with the growth expectations that we have.
Research Division</strong> Partly the question arose because the asset really is so tremendous that if you had adequate pipeline capacity I think you could grow at basically whatever rate you want it to grow.
So maybe there are other considerations.
Maybe the macro picture is a part of it.
Are there other things you're taking into account when you evaluate your midstream needs? Yes we -- kind of back to my comment I made about drilling in a field with 6 rigs.
Having a -- I don't know who's producing the most gas in the entire Marcellus or Utica area but we're close to the either 1 2 or 3 and at producing a 1.5 billion cubic foot per day up there and being able to grow off that base with only 6 rigs.
I don't know who's producing the most but I know that we have the least rigs running in the area particularly with that growth profile off of that larger base.
So we know we can continue to grow this tremendous asset a 30 to 40 Tcf resource opportunity up there.
We know the present value is important to all of us.
So everything we do is to enhance the present value of that asset.
A couple of things that will be happening in the future we're all aware of.
I think we all believe that demand is going to be enhanced.
Whether that demand is in power generation industrial use LNG exports all of that is moving forward.
So we're optimistic.
Though we are in a little bit of a lull period we're optimistic that in the foreseeable future demand is going to be enhanced.
And I think that demand enhancement's certainly going to be coupled with the midstream efforts that are ongoing right now to attach the supply area to existing demand areas and incremental new demand areas.
So we think we have a bright future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly can you speak to the potential you have in the dry gas Utica in West Virginia or even if there's some potential issue there? Well yes we're in the Utica play.
We have some acreage to the North over 50 000 acres to the north area of the play and we have some extensive acreage to the south area of the play where we are.
Whether it's the dry area or the liquids rich area the Utica we are looking at it.
We're evaluating.
We have a rig active at this point in time still an exploratory project for us but we're optimistic with the geology we see.
Research Division</strong> And Dan is there a potentially get an update on well results this year? Possibly.
We're -- we can't guarantee anything at this stage but it's certainly very possible that we could have some initial results this year.
Next we have Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Dan I was curious what your thoughts or plan was for '15 hedging? Yes.
We have looked at '15 hedging Pearce and we have considered it and looking at not only the -- NYMEX certainly it's just one component of it.
But we had -- before we've kind of changed our accounting process and now go to mark-to-market.
We had tried to tie some of our -- and looked at trying to tie some of our '15 volumes to a particular pipe.
But what we saw was: one the -- it was not a fairly liquid market; and two the differentials that we would have had to lock in in advance were punitive.
And what we have seen each month is that the forward-looking curve gives a significantly higher discount than the actual month realizations and we were not prepared to lock in those punitive differentials in advance in a illiquid market.
But we -- as we've indicated -- or as we illustrated with our hedge book we are interested in hedging and we'll continue to try to find ways to mitigate the volatility.
Research Division</strong> But it is your expectation that'll you put on some NYMEX Henry Hub hedges for next year? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question is really strong oil production growth this quarter congrats on that.
Would you be willing to put out some oil production growth guidance for '14? Scott's shaking his head no.
But right now with us moving a new rig into the area us looking at additional acreage out there and how we might move our activity around a little bit I'm more comfortable just to be putting it out there with what we have.
But I am optimistic that what we have out there is certainly reachable.
Research Division</strong> And then one last one for me and I apologize if you've already mentioned this in your prepared remarks but what is current net production in the Marcellus? Or what does the month-to-date production look like there? Gross production out there is -- we're working through these William issues that I've discussed but we're over -- we're somewhere in between 1.4 to 1.5.
Next we have Matt Portillo with TPH.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for me.
I was wondering if we can get an update on how your downspacing test is performing in the Marcellus? Okay.
Just real quickly we have several examples out there.
We had a 10-well pad that we've been producing now about 9 months about 9 months.
We had our closest spacing on that pad.
That spacing had the lower Marcellus spaced at 500 feet and we still like the trend line on our curve from those wells.
We do continue to look at and implement additional downspace opportunities.
So -- but I guess to say it differently we are going to downspace further.
So everything we've seen is positive so far.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And so is the plan there to potentially maximize the amount of wells you're able to fit in that section potentially with a little bit of interference.
So you're not seeing interference at this point? Well it's still early in the curve to be able to make that definitive statement.
The answer is no we haven't.
But it's still early in the production cycle when you think about how you're going to be able to ascertain what is incremental reserves and what is acceleration reserves.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just my second question on the Eagle Ford as you mentioned you're starting to see the returns exceed that threshold you guys have talked about in the past.
I'm wondering if you could provide a little bit of color around the acceleration potential? And then I guess just as a quick follow-up in regards to the completions you're using in the basin could you give us a little bit of color on kind of what your current completions are in terms of the size of the fracs you're doing and the number of stages you're completing? Okay.
On the acceleration side of the Eagle Ford we have brought in another rig.
We plan on implementing a walking package on a couple of rigs that do not have that capability today which will help accelerate our efficiencies as we've discussed.
We've mentioned that we're looking and continue to look at additional acreage out there.
With that opportunity if we have success I think you can anticipate additional acceleration maybe another rig in that as a result of additional acreage.
So that is also a way of doing it.
When you look at the completions and you look at the 10-well that we recently did the average lateral length was 6 700 foot or so.
We had oh an average of 26 27 stages in those wells.
And the items that I mentioned we're toying with the proppant size.
We are looking at the amount of proppant per stage.
So all of those things we're gathering additional information on and we continue to improve with the -- again are type of things that we're exploring out there.
The next question comes from Subash Chandra with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Following up on the Eagle Ford questions 2 for me.
One is can you be more specific just on the proppant intensity the pounds per stage the pounds per foot what you might be trying there in terms of escalation? And then were the 8 500-foot laterals included in this update? And finally if you could just refresh me on the net locations you have remaining in your current acreage? Okay.
I'll take this first on the location size.
If you use 400-foot spacing we are probably over 600 locations.
Now we're looking at the downspacing going down to the 300-foot.
And as I mentioned that could add 25% to 30% or so to the location count.
On the proppant I'll let Steve Lindeman have a brief discussion on the proppant question on what we're doing on a per foot basis and maybe how we're tweaking some of the proppant size without getting into too much detail.
Yes just quickly.
If we look at our 2013 program we had pumped a lot of 40/70 mesh sand.
In the -- with a 300 -- 400 000-pound range we've increased our proppant to 30-50 and we've actually done some 20-40 jobs now.
And we're pumping about 400 000 to 500 000 pounds per stage on those treatments.
And then as Dan mentioned earlier we are narrowing our spacing from 275 that we had last year down to something below 250 this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Okay and just the final one was if the 8 500 foot wells were included in this update? Yes.
Some of those 8 500-foot wells were in the 10-well average that I indicated to you.
Our next question comes from David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just to clarify you talked about perhaps adding another rig in the Eagle Ford.
But the 2015 guidance assumes on terms of overall growth that you're using 3 rigs in the Eagle Ford and 6 in the Marcellus? No that's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how do you I guess balance? You did talk about you haven't done any share repurchases to date.
I guess do you look at perhaps putting a rig in the Eagle Ford as a better use of capital than perhaps thinking about share repurchases right now? Or is there -- are they not necessarily mutually exclusive? Well they're not mutually exclusive.
However with the efficiency gains and what we've been able to see with the realized pricing the Eagle Ford is furnishing excellent returns.
And as I mentioned we have -- and you mentioned we have 3 rigs running there now.
If in fact we can be successful on additional acreage we could increase that rig count also not only for our guidance on '15 but we might be able to do something earlier than that.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer.
Research Division</strong> This may be repetitive in which case I apologize.
But your CapEx for the quarter was down a bit and the lowest in a while and I just wanted to see if you could talk about the outlook for capital spending for the rest of the year? How the Marcellus prices could make that fluctuate one way or the other in terms of the budget that you have outlined? Brian this is Scott.
We reaffirmed the capital guidance last night which is 1.375 to 1.475.
That plan -- again there might be some variability within it but that's still the plan that was reaffirmed 2 days ago in our board meeting.
It's basically a timing difference just some of the timing and the flow-through of the dollars associated with the completion operation and the drilling operation.
We still expect to be within that range.
So there'll be -- from where we were thinking maybe earlier in the year there's going to be more in the second half of the year.
And unless there's some huge dramatic fall off worse than any of us anticipate that plan is not going to change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that is actual change in activity in terms of the level of spending in the second half? Or that's kind of accounting noise where you actually probably really did spend more in Q2 than it gets reported for GAAP? Yes that's accruals.
It's accounting noise.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
So effectively you think you're generally on pace as opposed do you expect some acceleration in your base level spending? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I think you mentioned share repurchases in your opening comments.
Can you add any more color as to what you would need to see to become more aggressive on that front? Well as I mentioned we're trying to just dovetail out with the management of our capital exposure and some of the activity that we are in the middle of Brian regarding lease negotiations and acreage negotiations.
We wanted to flush all that out and balance with that.
And with success or without they're not again mutually exclusive.
But we felt like that we wanted to do that and have some resolution if you will on a couple of ideas that we're thinking about before we jumped out and bought additional shares.
Our next question comes from Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions were already asked.
I do have a question on the downspacing test in the Marcellus.
How many additional downspacing tests are you planning for the back half of this year with the 500-foot spacing? And what are your average well spacing for this year? Yes.
Marshall we're going to -- going all the way down in the lower Marcellus to 500 feet.
We're going to watch the wells that we have done that close together to see how they perform.
We wanted a benchmark that was very close and we think 500 foot is very close for the Marcellus.
But away from the 500 foot for example we have a large pad that we are going to drill.
And that will -- all of the wells on that large pad will be downspaced less than 1 000 foot.
So we do -- and in earnest we are continuing a downspacing effort but the 500-foot was a downspaced distance that again is going to give us some very very good data.
But I would not anticipate that the entire Marcellus would be able to be downspaced to 500-foot but I do anticipate it would be able to be downspaced less than 1 000.
I'm showing no further questions.
We will now -- this concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Thank you Youssef and I appreciate all the questions.
The questions' fairly narrowed in a band.
But again the takeaway from my closing comments prior to the Q&amp;A Cabot's going to be able to deliver some good results with our growth -- the production growth our capital efficiencies.
I think you're getting a flavor on what we're going to be able to do with our Eagle Ford operation and -- though it's early stage in what we think we can do with our increase in liquids volumes.
But we're optimistic that we're on the right track in that area and directionally I think you can anticipate the additional capital will be spent in that particular area.
So with that again I appreciate the interest in the second quarter call and look forward to visiting with you all on the third quarter call.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good Day.
And welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen only mode.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Dinges Chairman CEO and President.
Please sir go ahead.
Thank you Zelda.
And thank you all for joining this morning.
With me today I do have the members of our executive team.
Also the boilerplate language and the forward-looking statements including our press releases do apply to all my comments today.
I would first like to briefly touch upon a few financial and operating highlights from the third quarter that were outlined in this morning's press release before I do jump into the discussion on a few topics that I am sure is on everyone's mind.
First off the equivalent net production for the third quarter was 1.44 Bcf per day an increase of 24% over the prior year's comparable quarter.
Liquids production for the quarter increased 32% compared to the prior year comparable quarter when you adjust for last year's Mid - Continent and West Texas assets sale.
Net income excluding selected items for the quarter was $85 million an increase of 14% over the prior year comparable quarter.
And lastly cash flow from operations was $358 million an increase of 29% over the prior year comparable quarter.
These numbers highlight that even during a period when we experienced lower natural gas price realization and some unplanned production downturn we were still able to provide top tier growth in production and cash flows while generating top tier returns which is a testament to the quality of our assets and operations.
I have been clear and the general consensus is that 2015 will be another challenging year for natural gas and oil prices.
However we demonstrated this quarter and over the last year Cabot's asset base continue to generate high growth high returns and we will certainly stand to benefit greatly as we start to see improvements in the price dynamics in the basin once new pipeline projects are in place beginning in late 2015 and beyond.
And we will have some more comments in regard to Constitution in a moment.
The remainders of my comments are going to be focused on addressing questions that I think are on majority of your mind.
First the 2014 2015 guidance.
Today we did reaffirm our 2014 production range of 530 to 555 Bcfe.
Where we ultimately end up in this range will be dictated by the level of demand we see in November and December and certainly the corresponding market conditions will also impact that range.
Today we also reaffirm our 2015 production growth guidance range of 20% to 30%.
This production growth range is based on average gross Marcellus production rate 1.8 to 2 Bcf per day which is essentially the same gross production expectations we have for November and December of this year.
Once again production rate will be depended upon various factors throughout the year including natural gas price realizations and to a lesser extent field logistics around the infrastructure including both planned unplanned maintenances as well as maybe some line pressures.
The production growth range also assumes an average net liquids production rate of 18 000 to 20 000 barrels per day of which 88% is crude oil driven by the acceleration of our drilling program in the Eagle Ford.
The addition of this high margin production should help us offset some of the loss margins we are seeing from our natural gas sales in the current price environment.
The Company's capital program for 2015 is $1.53 billion to $1.6 billion which include drilling and completion capital of $1.25 to $1.32 billion approximately 52% of the drilling capital will be allocated to the Marcellus 46% will be allocated to the Eagle Ford Shale and another 2% or so allocated to drilling another areas.
The capital budget assumes five operated rigs in the Marcellus Shale that's down from our current count of six rigs and four operated rigs in the Eagle Ford.
Let me emphasis that our 2015 capital program at the mid point is up only 4% over our 2014 mid point however we will be generating production growth of 20% to 30% further highlighting the capital efficiency of our program.
Based on this rig count we expect to drill 180 to 190 net wells in 2015 which include 95 wells to 100 net wells in the Marcellus and 80 to 85 net wells in the Eagle Ford.
Our range in drilling in completion capital is ultimately dictated by how aggressive or conservative we choose to be on the completion side of our operations.
If the market demand is favorable throughout the year then we would likely accelerate completion resulting in higher production and certainly the reverse is true if we see below average demand certain times of the year winter or summer we will likely decelerate our completion schedule and move with the market resulting in lower production range.
However it is our intent to stay within our guided range of 20% to 30%.
As you might suspect we have run a number of sensitivities for our 2015 program certainly in light of the dynamics on the macro market of the commodity pricing.
We build one of our base case programs for the year off a realized natural gas price sensitivity of $2.80 per Mcf and realized old price of $88 per barrel.
While our crystal ball is no better than anyone else we believe these are within the fair way as reasonable assumptions.
We will certainly provide quarterly update as we always do regarding our price realization and review our thoughts on the forward strip.
However I think the most important investment consideration focused on is what the program generates throughout the year.
We plan on generating robust growth and returns even under these commodity price assumptions.
A typical Marcellus and Eagle Ford wells generate returns over 80% and 60% respectively based on those budgeted commodity price realizations we used in this sensitivity.
Okay moving to some hot news that came out this morning regarding the Constitution pipeline.
As many of you may or may not be aware the FERC issued its final environment impact statement this morning for Constitution.
As we are extremely excited to achieve this critical milestone we have yet to fully assess this several thousand page document.
That said we remained cautiously optimistic that assuming the timely receipt of all remaining necessarily regulatory approvals Constitution could begin construction as early as the first quarter of 2015 and bring the project into service in late 2016 or early mid-- I mean late 2015 or early mid 2016.
However given the uncertainty that still surround final approval process we are assuming in our budgeting right now a July 16 in service day for our internal modeling purposes.
But remain somewhat optimistic that there is still an opportunity to have Constitution in service by the end of 2015.
We will continue to keep you updated as we see more information from the Constitution pipeline team.
The FERC and all other agencies in the process.
Now moving down to South Texas and our Eagle Ford area.
During the quarter we announced the acquisition of 30 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford of which 17 000 net acres are directly offset to our Buckhorn operating area.
We close this transaction this last week.
Our Eagle Ford team has done an excellent job unlocking the value throughout the Buckhorn area and we believe that they will be able to generate similar results on this newly acquired adjacent acreage.
We are in the process of completing our first well on this acreage which should be placed on production near the end of the year.
As we highlighted in the press release during the quarter we placed 10 wells on production and produced for at least 30 days these wells achieved an average 30 day production rate of 751 barrels per day with a 91% oil cut which is in line with our type curve.
As a reminder our typically Eagle Ford well generates a return of approximately 50% at the current strip of $80 per barrel.
In the press release we also provided an update on our 300 -foot down spaced pilot program which we discussed last quarter.
To date these two wells have combined to produce over 230 000 barrels of oil in the first 180 days.
Fair to say that we are pleased with this result.
We plan to test more 300- foot down spaced well this year and in the next year and we will certainly have more to say as we continue to get additional production history to analyze.
Assuming 300-foot down spaced does work throughout our position in the Eagle Ford we have a drilling inventory of over 1 000 gross locations remaining in our Buckhorn and Presidio position.
Okay.
One quick note on the share repurchases during this quarter.
Subsequent to our press in late September we repurchased an additional 1.6 million shares bring the year-to-date total to 4.3 million shares.
And our total since the fourth quarter of last year is 9.1 million shares or approximately $300 million worth of share repurchase.
We have 10.1 million shares remaining under our current authorization giving our current outlook for commodity prices our capital program next year relative to our expected operating cash flow and our desire to maintain our strong balance sheet a pace of repurchase is could be tampered for some parts 2015 however it's certainly remain one of our objectives to effectively allocate our capital and share repurchases will remain a viable piece of that equation.
During the third quarter of 2014 we added 29 natural gas derivative contracts for our 2015.
The company now has approximately 200 million per day natural gas volumes hedged for 2015 at a weighted average floor of $3.99 per Mcf.
So with that comments Zelda I will be open for any questions to myself or our management team.
(Operator Instructions) The first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning so I got a couple of questions if I may.
So first of all on the Eagle Ford.
If you do end with the 1 000 locations which you said in your press release this morning.
Four rigs just seems little -- a little lower in the context of a resource opportunity.
So I am just wondering are the economic still competitive at the current oil price environment? And if so what would stop you looking to reallocate additional capital away from the Marcellus towards the Eagle Ford? And then I got follow up on Constitution please.
Okay.
Yes we certainly like to return in there as I mentioned.
With the typical well right now with our typical current bits we have a 50% at current commodity prices $80.
We have a 50% return profile for our wells and as far as expectations in 2015 on our program; we have this new acreage 70-- new acreage is going to require drilling to maintain that acreage.
And so on the near-term outlook and certainly with the returns that we get our group is gearing up to expand our operations moving our operations around a little bit than what we had say a couple of months ago.
And again if we have little prices that stay in the range they are today or better we do not anticipate or even if they go a little bit lower than $80 certainly we do not anticipate pulling any capital from the Eagle Ford.
We expect to keep these rigs busy keep a couple frac crews busy throughout the year.
And I would say that we would probably ramp up our program as we move into the latter part of 2015 on into 2016.
That's helpful thank you.
I guess the news obviously this morning on Constitution give you not a chance to fully absorb all the details but I just want to try and get some color around the implication for takeaway capacity in your mind Constitution is obviously a big deal but in your mind does it enough to resolve the ongoing issues given the strength of the wells and not particularly north east and of course the continued improving efficiencies and so on.
And if I missed a final follow up I wondered if you could also give us the exit rate of production in the third quarter -- give us some idea how would then in Q4.
Thank you.
All right.
Well first off the Constitution is just one component to several infrastructure projects that will be implemented up in the north east.
I'll let Jeff discuss these in one moment.
But certainly the Constitution is the most impactful near-term inflection point.
And we think we are going to be able to get a half Bcf of our gas to different price point.
And that price point certainly currently and historically has been a better price point than the general market.
So that is attractive to us and we think with the projects as they unfold down into 2016-2017-2018 we think the market will rationalize the supply side certainly demand is going to be enhanced.
And we think that we will be able to get gas to a broader index if you will on a weighted average basis that from today we think we will improve significantly up from what we are seeing today.
I think if you look at and you look at 2015 I think everybody is kind of on the same page at least the people that I have discussed this with.
At 2015 it's probably going to be the most challenging year and Cabot weathered this period if you will for the last six months to a year and we do expect that realization would go down for all the players out there probably in gas and oil price for 2015.
But we are in a position with our program to deliver decent returns through the period and come out other side which we think is going to a better market.
I'll come back to the third quarter exit volumes once I'll let Jeff discuss a little bit on the other projects that are out there.
Okay Dan.
I think as Dan alluded to Constitution certainly one step for us specifically I think the -- I think your question had to do a little bit with the micro market as well.
There are several projects that are out there Leidy Southeast and others Rose Run and Columbia East side I mean there is numerous project that affect us directly.
And numerous projects that affect us indirectly from Southwest PA that will certainly expand this to take away during 2015 2016 and 2017.
But for us specifically Leidy Southeast is the big project we have some additional firm coming on in the next few years; it's going to impact us on the existing pipeline.
Then of course Atlantic Sunrise is the next big step in 2017 with 850 000 day takeaway on that pipe.
So all-in-all it's shaping up we are thrilled about Constitution step forward but there is always additional capacity that's on the horizon.
We are always looking to get it.
Thank you Jeff.
And regard to the most recent affected volumes we are on the gross Marcellus were about 1.6 1.625 somewhere around there.
And we have said we did slide a little bit of maintenance from what we had anticipated to do in December into October.
So we would be able to take it full advantage of what we expect we will be a little bit better pricing in December.
The next question comes from Charles Meade from Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Dan and to the rest of your team there.
If I could back to rather pick up on the Marcellus volumes question a bit.
You said in your prepared comments that November December are just going to be kind of demand driven picture for you guys as far as what you produced but you also I think you mentioned in the press release you got a number of wells schedule for completion up there.
So can you talk about the inner play of those two and what's your -- what kind of hurdles you guys are clearing day to day on deciding what's your volume is going to be?  Well we do have -- we are balancing I guess our rhetoric again in regard to the market.
The early forecast right now for early winter is that it might be a little bit warmer than normal so we just picked up bed and couching expectation to say that if it is little bit warmer and you don't have the demand that would be expected then we could balance our production in light of that market.
However with your point about the number of wells that we are bringing on.
We will be bringing on a list of wells that are probably greater than a 1 000 frac stages well it is a grater than 1 000 frac stages and you can do some quick back of the arm below math and the rates from those wells would be significant.
In fact if you did just back of the arm below -- you could almost get to the rate that we are producing today on an instantaneous basis.
But again with that said we are just trying to tamper expectations a little bit but we do expect most likely that we are going to fall in the range that we discussed that in November and December 1.8 to 2 Bcf a day.
Got it.
Yes that's a frac stage that is -- a lot of potential there.
And Dan one other thing if I could redirect to the Eagle Ford.
It looks like a big step up in your emphasis there and that make sense both with what you had in the Marcellus and your recent acquisitions there.
But I wonder if you could talk more broadly about what your goals are for 2015 in the Eagle Ford? Whether it is to delineate some of the new acreage that you recently acquired? Whether it's to test more long laterals or more emphasis on this down spaced? Just what are your overall goals that you like to deliver on in 2015? Yes now that's good question Charles.
And we are excited about what we have been able to do.
The south region has done a great job of implementing some new processes and is completion; I'll let Steve Lindeman give some color on that after I make a comment on the acreage.
But it is our plan to delineate if you will the acreage position that we recently acquired.
We are still in the game putting together additional acreage.
And we are doing so because of the returns that we expect and that we are realizing out there in this program.
So our goal is to be able to provide a consistent level of operations and results in the form of returns and have a fair way that is going to be something that we can plan in our capital allocation for a number of years adding in front of us.
I'll let Steve talk a little bit about maybe what we are doing in our efficiency efforts out there.
Charles in terms of what our goals would be we are migrating to more pad development and really looking at every phase of drilling and completion operation to try and enhance our efficiencies.
Earlier in the year with only -- in the beginning of 2014 with just two rigs running in the field we couldn't maintain a steady frac through now with the four rigs we got a steady frac through and even a second crew that's coming in from time to time.
That's really helped us significantly in terms of efficiencies in a drilling out plugs packers all those all the ancillary type things.
And then secondly we've been trying to with this acreage acquisition it helps us work to extend our lateral length.
And that's where we are working to incorporate this acreage extend some of the unit and try and work up increase what our average lateral length is.
And the next question comes from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Dan I may have missed this and I apologize but in your prepared remarks did you provide any color on expectations for company wide gas differentials for Q4? And what do you experience Q4 to date? No.
We had not.
And any color you want to provide there now.
No.
We will have all our fourth quarter realization on our call in February but just in a general sense Pearce we are seeing similar so far in this early stage of fourth quarter we are seeing similar realizations as we have seen in the third quarter.
Okay thank you Dan.
And my follow up question in response to Doug's question earlier you had mention did your capital program in Eagle Ford number of rigs run specifically the four rigs did you currently lock down on that and even if prices were little bit below $80 a barrel for 2015 on NYMEX oil that you would probably stay still with that four rigs.
Given the rates of return that you are running there is there a threshold price at which you would adjust those rigs? You have $75 is it $70? Is there a number? I think you have to get below $70 for us even consider adjusting that program at this stage.
We certainly have the balance sheet be able to capture this acreage; we see the value in the acreage with the return profile we can get at a reasonable price Pearce.
And in the near-term we are going to capture that acreage and we are going to stay at it.
So it would have to fall up quite a bit for us to deflect from our program.
The next question comes from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Could you guys remind us what your pricing outlook is for market at Constitution serves? And how much additional gas you think it's possible to send to those markets beyond Constitution the four Constitution like pipeline expansions are no long accretive? Well I'll let Jeff answer the marketing question Brian thanks.
Sure Brian.
I think at this point I just want to remind everyone that we are in numerous contract negotiations with buyers at the tailgate of Constitution pipeline at station called Wright I wanted to dodge these specifics.
But if you look just look at the historic prices at Iroquois Zone 2 and Tennessee I think an impact of additional 500 000 they have gas which is not really incremental.
We think it will be backing off the Canadian suppliers they are coming from Echo.
So we don't think there is enough gas there to saturate the market necessarily.
And so we are easing into with a number of different buyers.
Turning out north to Canada will be sending gas out to Long Island and we will be introducing some gas to Boston from that point.
So it looks very favorable.
Obviously I will say it's above NYMEX of high pricing obviously the 30 inch pipeline has some room for expansion.
We are not concentrating at all on expansion right now.
We are looking at the project as it is proposed and planned and obviously we are again -- we are happy with the final EIS as the 30 inch pipeline and that's what we are sticking to at this point.
Thanks.
And then my follow up is also with regard to Constitution.
I guess it's maybe understandable you haven't read 3 000 pages in an hour or two hours but I wonder whether you had or engaged at all any of the state regulatory agencies that are going to be looked to here with the SEIS now out there or if you have any update from what you are hearing from Williams or others? Okay.
Well you are correct.
Well the executive summary looks fine looks exactly what we expected.
There is a lot devil in the detail on a document of this size.
Remember through that the finally EIS does a number different things.
Probably the most important thing is it sets stage to receive the certificate.
And that's of course what we are all going to be looking forward to next.
The second thing it does is confirmed they are out.
And that's always been on the back of everybody's mind is when we have the route fully confirmed.
And then the EIS does that.
The third thing it does is there are going to be a number of agencies both state and federal that are waiting on information that's contained in this document.
New York PA all kinds of federal agencies all the permits and there is hundreds and hundreds of permit that -- permit inside permit.
They are waiting on data from this document.
So we are thrilled that's finally out there.
Everyone can proceed now with the finalizing the permits and looking forward to getting the certificate.
The next question comes from Matthew Portillo of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Good morning guys.
Just a quick follow up question.
As we look into 2015 you guys mentioned kind of your guidance implies relatively flat production from the current acts that you are looking at in December of this year.
Could you provide us a little bit of color in terms of how many wells do you think you actually need to complete to hold your production profile flat? And then I guess second follow up question along side that.
As you kind of highlighted the productivity of these wells with your current drilling plan are you planning on building a backlog of inventory going into 2016 which will start to go down once you have some of the Constitution capacity coming on? Yes.
We have one the ability with our results and type of wells and results tha we have in the Marcellus.
We have the ability to tweak our production profile fairly quickly.
And looking at your first question what it is take to hold these -- hold our production flat.
And I will be a little bit bolder I don't know if I get a raising eyes from some of the guys around the table but with the tranche of wells that we are going to be completing between now and the end of the year I think it would be safe to say that we would probably not have to drill another well or complete another well in 2015 to maintain our production flat.
Because of the backlog of production that we have coming from those wells.
So that would be a kind of a little bit of bold statement maybe but nevertheless I believe it to be true.
When you look at the backlog of wells that we might have as we go through the approval process with Constitution we are going to manager how we complete wells and how we bring wells on and how we handle the field allocation and logistics have moving our gas based on the expected turn in date line for Constitution.
But if you go to our budget as we set it out right now with a mid 2016 Constitution commissioning date we should have going into the end of the year almost 1 400 or so stages in the queue if you will at the end of 2015.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
</strong> Great.
And then I guess just as a second follow up question along side that.
As we think about kind of the next year or so really going into 2015 with that in mind kind of the drilling program you are guys setting in 2015 sets you out for effectively just using some of that backlog inventory to grow your production in the 2016 timeframe is that the right way to think about it so as you guys continue to build this inventory? Your 2016 capital program probably doesn't need to change all that much in terms of your drilling CapEx to achieve that growth rate you kind of layout with Constitution? Yes I think we are not going to-- we haven't put together our guidance for 2016 but I would not expect a large increase in our capital program in 2016.
The next question comes from Mark Hanson with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys thank you.
If you could maybe just a more color on where your expectations are for operating cash flow for 2015 given the budget do you expect to live within cash flow? Or will there be some borrowing to bridge the gap there? Mark with the prices that we laid out in the guidance last night we are looking at the small deficit sub $100 million in our base 2015 plan.
Okay.
And then maybe can you just help me bridge the gap there in terms of drilling and completion and the ongoing equity investment there in Constitution and Central Penn.
Looks like there is maybe 200 million or so give or take beyond of -- now those buckets and I am just wondering maybe if you could give us more color on kind of where that spending is directed? It's a lease acquisition; it's going to be some production equipment and facilities exploration and capital dollar in there as well.
The next question comes from Marshall Carver from Heikkinen Energy Advisors LLC.
LLC</strong> Yes good morning.
And I guess you addressed my question around completion activity in the Marcellus.
But you outlined the drilling program in Eagle Ford 2015 how many wells do you plan on completing and putting online in the Eagle Ford in 2015? Well we will be drilling 20-80-85 as far as the number of -- when you look at the 2014 wells that are being drilled now that roll over into 2015 and then you look at the carryout wells that are drilled in 2015 that will be completed in 2016 I am guessing it is going to be close to 70 to 75 wells.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
And one other question.
You give the liquids production guidance for 2015 is that all crude and condensate or is there an NGL component? And how large would that be if there is any NGLs? Well the majority of it is crude.
Of the 18 000 to 20 000 barrels.
And I think we have -- I think it's less than 15% probably 10% NGL in that.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Zelda.
Again I appreciate everybody's questions.
As we mentioned we are excited to get the FERC Constitution pipeline EIS and we will have more color on that as it unfolds.
But one thing that I think it's safe to say is that this macro market certainly has created a little of anxiety for a lot of investors.
But when you step back and you evaluate company like Cabot and company that can provide like strong growth excellent returns maintain investment great balance sheet.
It is a company that is going to be here for long term.
I think we are weathering the worst of the storm as we speak.
And there is going to be better opportunities to enrich shareholders as we roll forward from this date.
So I'm n it for the long haul and again I appreciate all your support.
Thanks again.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Dinges Chairman CEO and President.
Please sir go ahead.
Okay.
Thank you very much Gary and good morning and thank you all for joining Cabot's fourth quarter year-end earnings call.
I do have members of the executive group with me today and also the forward-looking statements included in the morning's press release do apply to my comments.
As you did see in the morning's press release 2014 marked another successful year for Cabot Oil &amp; Gas as we generated top tier growth in production reserves earnings cash flow despite continued price challenges in the Marcellus coupled with a deteriorating oil price environment during the second half of the year.
Going over a couple of the bullet points Cabot generated record production volumes of 532 Bcfe and increased 29% over '13 levels and an increase of 32% when adjusting from the sale of the Mid-Continent West Texas assets in 2013 this included record liquids production that increased 55% year-over-year when adjusting for the 2013 asset sales.
Net income excluding select item for the year was $405 million or $0.97 per share an increase of 36% over '13 and operating cash flows for the year was 1.2 billion an increase of 21% year-over-year.
This growth in earnings and cash flow was driven primarily by our strong production growth combined with a 16% year-over-year decrease in unit cost.
The Company did take a non-cash after-tax charge in the fourth quarter of approximately 487 million related to the impairment of certain non-core properties primarily in East Texas due to the significant decline in commodity prices and the decision not to pursue further activity in these legacy operating areas at this point in time.
As a reminder these assets were the focus of the Company prior our development of the Marcellus and Eagle Ford and have not seen any meaningful levels of drilling activity since 2010 so there was no impact to the Company's reserve report.
I would also like to highlight that during the year we purchased 4.3 million shares of our common stock and added approximately 40 000 net acres in our Eagle Ford position.
All while we maintained a strong balance sheet with conservative leverage metrics and over 1.3 billion of available borrowing capacity on our current facility at year-end.
On our proved reserves in addition to these strong operational and financial performance during the year we also generated significant growth in the year-end proved reserves which increased 36% to over 7.4 Tcfe that is all source finding and development cost for the year was $0.71 per Mcfe this is particularly impressive yielding at over 43% of our 2014 capital was allocated to our oil properties in the Eagle Ford that by nature are more capital intensive excluding the purchase of reserves in place associated with our Eagle Ford acquisition last year the total company finding and development cost was $0.65 per Mcfe.
In the Marcellus our all sources finding and development cost was $0.43 per Mcf highlighting the capital efficiency of our wells in the Northeast PA obviously one of the components is that our wells in this area do deliver very strong EURs.
The Cabot's average EUR for the 2014 program on proved developed wells was over 18 Bcf up from the 16.9 Bcf for our '13 program.
As a result of our continued performance improvements we have also increased our reserve bookings on PUD locations in the Marcellus from an EUR of 10 Bcf to 11 Bcf per well.
Our proved developed percentage increased from 59% in '13 61% in '14 highlighting our fairly conservative philosophy regarding our reserve bookings.
For example we booked a modest 0.7 offset PUD locations for each of our proved developed wells in the Marcellus at year-end.
Our year-end reserves were 96% natural gas down from the 97% in '13 which was driven by 100% increase in our liquids reserve base.
Approximately 89% of our proved reserves are located in the Marcellus Shale.
I would also like to highlight that the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection that released the production data for the second half 2014 this week and once again Cabot dominated the list with the top 16 wells in the state.
Let's move to our '15 program while our '14 operational and financial performance are in the rearview mirror the results do highlight Cabot's ability to deliver strong results in a challenged price environment however we are immune to the market conditions the entire industry is currently facing.
On our third quarter earnings call in October of last year I laid out the Company's initial 2015 program which was predicated on realized natural gas price and oil prices of $2.80 and $88 respectively.
As you all are aware the operating environment the industry is facing has changed drastically since our call less than four months ago while much of the focus over the last few months has been on the declining oil price we have also experienced a fairly meaningful decline in the natural gas prices including the regional index prices in Appalachia.
No different than what we are seeing in the major U.S.
oil basins Cabot and its peers have done an excellent job of finding an abundant supply of resources in the Marcellus and as a result supply demand balance is currently at a synch.
Until we see the rebalancing of the market which reduced activity with the reduced activity which I think is currently underway I believe the industry will continue to see pricing pressures on both oil and gas.
As you will recall in the fourth quarter of last year we saw a significant increase in natural gas supply on the three major pipes in our area which included a 15% sequential increase in Cabot's volume in anticipation of winter however winter demand did not materialize as we all would have expected and as a result we have seen the local indices in January and February sat at levels significantly lower than our initial forecast.
In response to this lower commodity price environment we have adjusted our 2015 program with a focus protecting the balance sheet and maximizing our return on investment by still managing our growth profile.
Despite the change in our absolute levels of activity in 2015 our strategy remains unchanged.
A focus on aligning our capital spending to be primarily funded by operating cash flows focus our drilling efforts on maintaining our acreage position and optimizing operating efficiencies and the retention of our high quality employee base.
This strategy has positioned us favorably leading into this commodity cycle and we believe this strategy will allow us to exit this cycle extremely well positioned.
Company updated capital budget for 2015 as $900 million which is 42% decrease compared to our initial budget.
Approximately 80% of the program will be directed towards drilling and completion activity with 60% allocated to the Marcellus and 40% allocated to the Eagle Ford.
In the Marcellus we are currently operating five rigs with plans to decrease to three rigs by the end of the second quarter based on this level of activity we expect to drill approximately 70 net wells and place 65 to 70 wells on production during the year.
Giving the backlog of wells we carried into 2015 and our anticipated level of activity during the year we expect to exit the year with approximately 45 wells in the queue for 2016.
Despite drilling longer laterals in '15 we expect well cost to average between 6 million and 6.5 million as a result of operating efficiencies and the service cost reduction that we have received to-date.
However as we're all aware this is a dynamic market and our expectation is that if commodity prices remain depressed for a sustained period of time and the level of activity industry wide continues to decline we will likely see a further reduction in cost in the Eagle Ford we are currently operating three rigs with plans to decrease to one rig by the end of the second quarter given where our oil prices are currently our focus is solely on lease maintenance and meeting all drilling obligations.
Based on our planned rig count for the year we expect to drill approximately 45 net wells and place 40 to 45 wells on production during the year.
Again giving our backlog of wells that we carried into '15 our anticipated level of activity during the year we expect to exit '15 with approximately 20 wells queued up ready for our 2016.
Similar to the Marcellus we expect well cost for the year to average between $6 million and $6.5 million with an opportunity for further cost reductions as we move through the year.
We remain excited about what we have seen so far in our 90 000 acre net position which is all contiguous however in light of the current price environment we believe that prudent decision is to maintain all of the acreage and wait until a sustained recovery in prices before we start accelerating activities in the future.
Based on this updated operating program we have adjusted our production guidance range for the year to 10% to 18% which includes 50% to 60% growth in liquids production.
This guidance range assumes a modest level of curtailments in the Marcellus in anticipation of maintenance in high line pressures at certain points during the year.
Additionally we have also included a wage of price related curtailments in this guidance to account for those periods where price simply does not meet our threshold.
Obviously the natural question would be how much and what price we would take these actions for competitive reasons we will not disclose specifics but I will say that our production profile for the year assumes higher volumes in the first quarter with a reduction in the second quarter and third quarters and increasing again in the fourth quarter.
The realized commodity price is used in this updated budget to make our $900 million program or $0.45 per Mcf $2.45 for natural gas and $55 per barrel for oil.
This includes the impact of our natural gas hedges which covers about 28% of our natural gas volumes at the midpoint of our updated guidance range.
Also for the full year approximately 50% of our gas sales are priced at three major indices in Northeast PA which is Tennessee Leidy and Millennium.
Under these assumptions our operating program would result in a very small level of outspend allowing us to maintain the same financial strength we demonstrated prior to this down-cycle while still providing double-digit growth and generating returns.
Some of you may find or may have questions about 2016 given our reduced level of activity for this first year first let me say that our internal model shows continued growth in 2016 with the level of growth dependent upon factors that will certainly be understand better as 2015 progresses.
However one key factor we have the commodity price environment evolve throughout 2015 we do anticipate similar operational and supply reductions by other operators in Northeast PA in a reaction to the current prices and our expectation is that this will ultimately result in a rationalization of this supply and demand dynamics in our area.
Given an expectation for tapering of supply growth coupled with new takeaway capacities in the Northeast that's Leidy Southeast expansion and the Tico East side expansion that's coming online in the second half of the year we will remain flexible with our program if the market warrants us to make changes.
Given the productivity and the low capital intensity of our wells in the Marcellus we are well positioned to adjust our operations in short order.
As a reminder we grew to our current production levels by never operating more than six rigs in the Marcellus and given the anticipated backlog of 65 wells companywide at year-end 2015 we do have plenty of optionality to accelerate completions in the second half of the year as we see fit.
As I mentioned earlier our plan is to maintain our high quality employee base and we believe that positions us very well in the event of a quick recovery.
Another key factor that will drive '16 growth and enhance program returns will be the anticipated in-service of constitution pipeline which is currently planned for the second half of 2016.
Cabot has 500 million a day capacity on this pipeline so the timing of when this pipeline comes online will obviously have an impact on 2016 production levels.
As a quick update on constitution there were a few significant accomplishments at the end of last year that they're repeating as you are aware and on December 2 2014 the FERC issued a certificate of public convenience and necessity of proving the constitution pipeline.
In addition on December 24th the New York DEC issued a formal notice of complete application regarding the final permits necessary from New York.
We are currently awaiting the conclusion at the New York state public comment period which is schedule to end on February 27 2015.
Moving forward we are hopeful to receive our final permits from New York during the second quarter and immediately file for the implementation and construction plan with the FERC with construction beginning this summer.
So in summary I've covered many topics we are well position to adapt and succeed in this price environment.
I thinks it's clear our asset base and our disciplined focus lends itself to a allowing us to generate returns at these price levels that maybe many other operators will not or may not experience.
And despite the current market conditions we remain committed to delivering our long-term shareholder value and certainly maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Gary with those comments I'll turn it back over to you to queue up some questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Dan a couple of things if I may first of all on constitution just to be clear so what is the precise hold up now Dan on moving forward with construction outside of what I guess it rightly issues in New York is still the bottom-line.
But in terms of all the other preparation can you actually start now or are you still waiting can you not probably start until everything is lined up.
I'm just trying to understand what the bottlenecks might be? Yes great question and a question that is obviously on a lot of people's mind I'll make a brief comment and turn it over to Jeff for any specific color.
But we have submitted all the permits we submitted our original permits back in August of ’13.
There has been significant dialogue between Williams the operator of the pipeline not only the FERC but also the New York DEC.
The protocol and moving through this process is that the DEC has made the determination as I mention on the 24th of December that we have fulfilled our obligation to give them all of the information they need to deem the project complete.
With that so there comes a public comment period and that public comment period we are end at this period of time and it ends at the end of this months.
Subsequent to that the expectation is with no new issues that would have that not come up over the last couple of years that the New York DEC will grant a final permit and then that would allow us to make the application to FERC to begin construction.
Yes Doug just to add a few points to that the application process in New York and Pennsylvania for that matter and of course we're finished in Pennsylvania it has been pretty much what we expected it has taken a little bit longer than we expected.
But the process is what it is and by getting the notice of complete application it does signal that the New York DEC have all the information they need to issue the final permit and the process we are in now is standard and operating procedure where public comments are welcome based on the action that New York DEC took.
In terms of getting construction started Williams will file an implementation plan with FERC probably next month and in the implementation plan we will include permits from all the agencies involved including the ones that FERC issued and it will be complemented with the final permit from New York once that is issued.
When FERC gets that final determination they'll issue a notice to proceed with construction and at that point construction can begin.
So it's a lot of moving pieces but it really cannot dig dirt until all the pieces are in place.
Just two quick follow-ups I guess on some numbers if I may first can you quantify the curtailments that you'd assumed in your JV’s of current year and finally any scale of anticipated cost reduction from this point forward and over and above what you've already achieved in terms of service cost? And I will leave it there.
On the curtailment we will not be exactly specific.
But I can say that it -- in fact all of the available production would move we would certainly approach where the lower end of our previous guidance and in regard to cost again we have seen the cost roll off no different than the other operators that had made a release and we anticipate they'll also as you continue to see service or programs lay down rigs there is going to be a natural tendency to continue to keep equipment and people teed up and busy for the service sector.
And we could see additional service cost reductions throughout the year.
And Dan some folks are talking about sort of 20.5% Q4-over-Q4 is that scale reasonable for you or would you pass them up? No I think that's reasonable.
The next question comes from David Deckelbaum with KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
On the -- I just wanted to follow-up on the EURs that were booked this year obviously very encouraging data on the PDPs of 18 Bcf versus 16.9 last year.
Would you distribute all of that to just longer laterals? We're fortunate to have our VP of Marcellus region in here Phil Stalnaker we had our Board meetings yesterday and Phil's group does a number of things up there that we try to tweak and gain additional efficiencies and Phil why don't you just talk about capital efficiency things that you have done and what we're looking at.
On the completion side of course one thing we'll continue to look at is the optimum spacing between frac intervals and testing from the 200 feet down to the lateral of 50 foot spacing.
Again we're looking at optimizing our landing 0.2.
So again we're continuing to tweak the formula and look for ways to improve.
And do you have the data at all for the Eagle Ford didn't know if I missed that I just hope on what the Eagle Ford was booked at this year? We have also Steve Lindeman who is coordinating our south region effort Steve why don’t you add some more comments.
Yes for the Eagle Ford we’re still in line in the range that we talked about before about 500 000 barrels for roughly 7 000 foot lateral wells.
So in all the incremental improvements that are being made now weren't factored into last year's reserve report yet at least in the Eagle Ford? That's correct.
The only other one I had was just on the well cost reduction that you're seeing so far.
What percentage of that is just your own optimization versus third-party service declines? Well we had specific numbers on the third-party service declines.
As you have seen it through the again the relations that have occurred to-date out there that rig cost coming down and pumping services coming down are the major components the operational efficiencies are it is kind of an ongoing effort in our program and we continue to try to those things that would allow us to create more efficiencies either by enhancements to the amount of production or EURs we can recognize or tweaking the components of a completion for the most part or landing points that will allow us to gain time and/or frac efficiencies with either spicing considerations or the amount of profit pumped.
Those common things that we all look at so I don’t have a specific breakdown between the components of service cost reductions and operational efficiencies.
The majority of that has occurred most recently has been from the service side.
Last one if I might just wanted to get with the updated guidance now looking at spends fairly close to cash flow and preserve that balance sheet.
Are you starting to see opportunities in and around your core areas to expand your positions from some other folks that are maybe a little bit more stretched? In these environments where commodity price fall off so rapidly typically there is a law between the time when that fall off occurs and the M&amp;A activity.
And I think we're in that period right now the expectation by those that have assets and that might have some stress points are they're going to hold as long as they possibly can in hoped of a quick bounce off the bottom.
But I can say from a strategic standpoint we do look at this period of time as an opportunity and if we see the bolt-on as you are referring to fit what our long-term plan is because we're balancing this market for the long-term and not just the short-term.
We'll take advantage of it and our balance sheet certainly allows that at the end of the year as we have mentioned we had $1.3 billion of available capacity to utilize so we're in good shape to take advantage of what opportunities come along.
The next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Dan you have generally in the past spoken to building a backlog of wells in anticipation of constitution coming online.
How much of your CapEx reduction here is a function of greater flexibility given the lack of clarity on the constitution set of time so has there been any strategic change in which you’d plan to fully supply constitution with wells yet to come online versus wells contributing to the oversupply today of the local market? Well we had reacted with our capital program today based on commodity price.
We've looked at the differentials and we all realize the loss of $45-$50 on a per barrel and we have reacted with a reduction in our activity i.e.
capital that translated into the number of wells drilled and completed just purely based on that commodity price assumptions and maintaining our cash flow neutral program and looking at constitution and looking at as I've mentioned the queue that we had built up of 40-45 wells that we'll have at the end of 2015.
We are going to be in good shape to be able to build our volumes into the expected commissioning date of '15.
We continue to see efficiencies as we've reported from our '13 program to our '14 program.
We expect continued efficiency gains in our '15 program which I think is going to translate into maybe higher IPs and higher EURs which would allow for a more rapid increase in the amount of deliverability leading up to constitution.
I think again a point to illustrate is the fact that and in one of the premier gas fields in the entire world in an area that's growing probably faster than any other place that I'm aware of in the world is a Six County area in Pennsylvania and in all of the Marcellus Cabot had the top 16 wells in the entire field.
So I think that speaks volumes on our ability to be able to grow into additional 500 million a day that is our volumes on constitution in a fairly quick order.
And I might add without a whole lot of capital intensity.
And then separately you built up your Eagle Ford commensurate with your growth in the Marcellus over the last few years.
Is the down cycle in both oil and natural gas prices provide an opportunity to materially shift your exposure to around these areas or are you committed to the balance currently in the portfolio? Are you talking about like the 60-40 balance we have in the Eagle Ford and the Marcellus? Exactly or if you think about the production percentages or the resource percentages do you see an opportunity for larger scale M&amp;A here to move around your core areas and the weighting of your core areas these new core areas or should we expect when we come out of it that you'll have a similar weighting for the Eagle Ford Marcellus and nothing else? And that's a good question also because again a lot of opportunity occurs to those that have a strong balance sheet and optionality in a down market and we're certainly one of those companies.
We don’t have anything on the books Brian but again to think about our long-term runway and to position us to take advantage of a uptick in the oil market for example I think it is prudent for us to look at what type of area we might want to be in the long-term and how we might want to position and how we create that position.
But again as it being a singular focus or a strong need at this particular period of time it is not that but certainly it's I view that we kick around and we look at and we build data base on to be able to understand the markets out there in the longer-term.
So if we move around the balance of commodity i.e.
more oil versus our 96% gas versus 4% oil it would be a long-term view and we'll take advantage of it.
And I think we could do something in the future.
The next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Please go ahead.
To start out I just want to be clear once you finally break dirt what's the time range for finishing the constitution based on experience? Construction is going to be a rather short-term project but -- and Jeff can fill you out on the number of crews that we have the pipelines on the ground there and the things that have been lined up from the construction standpoint.
Okay Jeffery actually the -- of course the pipe is on location and the construction bids have gone out and we have contractors waiting on the notice to proceed everything is set up and staged and ready to go waiting on the final permits.
That said there are a few operating windows that have to be considered such as stream crossings and tree clearing and that sort of thing but basically regardless of when you start and if you adhere to all the windows of constructions you're talking about less than a year to get everything in place tested and operating.
Dan based on prior guidance it looks like you have reduced your 2015 wells to drill by a greater percentage in the Marcellus than in the Eagle Ford.
And can you add a color on that and the reason why I'm asking is because you've recently said that Marcellus returns to $2 per million BTU’s are better than the Eagle Ford returns of $70 a barrel.
So some thought some color might be useful.
We want to have some new acreage that we acquired in the Eagle Ford and that new acreage we acquired in the Eagle Ford had near-term lease explorations that required drilling activity.
And so our balance of capital with bringing it down to kind of cash flow level just dictate it based on the acreage capture in the Eagle Ford how much activity we are going to have in that particular area and in regard to where that places our activity in the Marcellus we have ample supply to sell into the market.
That would give us a growth profile greater than what we have represented in our guidance.
However every incremental amount of gas that we would produce in the Marcellus goes into the indices that are the most challenged right now.
So to grow into that with additional drilling even though we are yet recognizing very good returns it's still blows down to the balancing act between our cash flow and the amount of activity that’s necessary for a maintenance program.
So that’s the balance that we see short-term being our '15 program.
So if I could sneak one last quick one in.
You said previously that you intended to target investment grade leverage metrics in 2015.
And I'm wondering if you're revised CapEx is guided by this goal and does it remain a primary balance sheet metric during maybe future commodity volatility in 2015? Yes I'll pass that to Scott.
Jeffrey yes that’s still a goal again Dan hit on the key points of why we did what we did related to the capital.
But we've had a strategy our capital modeling both in good times and in bad that we want to be right on top of or very near the anticipated cash flow and as a result of that we have build a company that is very close to investment grade clearly from a debt-to-EBITA perspective that has been kind of test those kind of limits in terms of investment grade metrics.
Simply because of the underlying cash flow but the overall leverage won't change as we alluded to in our opening comments.
The next question comes from Bob Brackett with Bernstein.
Please go ahead.
Yes a quick one and a follow-up.
The quick one is what's the best daily rate that your Marcellus operations have achieved? Well we had recently we had a 42 million almost 43 million a day type of well.
I mean for the whole operation.
We have been over 2 Bcf a day in between 2.1 Bcf a day.
The other one is a bit more strategic we're spending a lot of time thinking and wondering about constitution.
That’s 2016 what's the 2017 and beyond strategy for getting your volumes to market and what are you doing now to make sure there aren’t delays like we've seen with constitution? Now we have a significant runway out in front of us.
That is already in and moving forward not only is the constitution teed up for the middle of ’16 and a 0.5 Bcf a day.
I’ll let Jeff go into the order of additional projects we have and he might also just touch on what we have at the end of this year too.
Sure I'll try to keep it fairly larger number.
So we have a number of projects at 20 000 a day here and 25 000 a day there they do add up.
But probably in the near-term we have Colombia East expansion that’s coming on later in '15 and Cabot has a 50 000 a day position there Leidy Southeast project comes on December '15 and we have some additional long-term market associated with that.
Probably the -- I might mention one other Pen East project coming along in October of ’17 we have 100 000 a day position on that and that will connect and take gas off Leidy system.
But the big project is the 850 million a day coming on in September 2017 that is the Williams project is known as Atlantic Sunrise and that's a new 40 inch pipe connected in the heart of our production area.
And as we mentioned late last year the capacity there kind of 850 000 a day 100% of those volumes are committed for sales we announced the co-point say in the time of long-term sale of 350 000 a day for 20 years and we announced the 0.5 Bcf a day sale to Washington Gas Light for 500 000 a day.
So that is certainly going to take us into 2017 with a good program and a good plan and try to working on the next projects.
That next question comes from Drew Venker with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Dan before you spoke about the volumes in the Marcellus sticking down in 2Q and 3Q just curious if you can provide color if that's managing to expectations of demand there if there is something else going on there? No two things looking at just the system as a whole depending on what type of inflection we get with the supply side and the propensity of gas being curtailed if in fact the indices fall off or stay too low.
I think selling into a lot cost market or a low value market is going to be rationalized a little bit.
But what occurs during the deriving shoulder months would be some pressure up on the pipelines and during that period of time it can back gas off the market even though there has been a number of projects to compress and to mitigate the line pressures in the past so that is one component to the lower volumes that I have alluded to in the second and third quarter.
The other is just putting a soft spot in our guidance for low gas prices if we see low gas prices we're just not going to give our gas away and we would take gas off the market.
So that's the reason nothing operational except for the midstream part of the operation to give us that well.
And just a follow-up on that potentially weak pricing in the middle of the year it's my understanding that in Leidy there is somewhat limited power gen demand especially in the summer.
But we've heard some expectations that that will expand over the next couple of years.
Can you guys provide any color there or any thoughts as to potential quantitative impact? Yes Jeff? Yes Drew there are certainly as you are aware there is an announcement about Panda just this week on new power generation at Central PA.
There is also several facilities planned in and off the Leidy system and we're actively in negotiations for those facilities and they're good loads for base loads kind of power gen and it is something producers love.
So it's a little premature I guess to say that how far we have come but we're certainly in negotiations.
And Jeff give us a sense of what the volume impact would be in 2015 in terms of demand? Yes overall… In 2015.
So overall these plants are in that 300 million a day plus range.
It's up to the power generator if he is going to split and load between different parties and so forth or is he wants to deal with one party just how things and scenarios that happened at cove point where you have half the LNG buyer wanting to go to one supplier and the other went with was three to four.
So it’s kind of yet to be seen but we're in a great position to serve a couple of these plants and we're in a great position to serve all their needs.
The next question comes from Subash Chandra with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Is there an update on percent of sales in 2015 into Leidy and for the last one I saw was sort of mid to late '14 around 20%.
Well I know that as I have mentioned in my comments that though the three indices we have between approximately 50% that is moving into those three indices Leidy Tennessee and Millennium I don't have a breakout in front of me on what's going into the Leidy.
And then on the reserve increase you talked about wells being better 18 Bs and 16.9 is there an average Bcf per lateral foot for 1 000 lateral feet that you can boil it down to? Well we have and in the past we've indicated the approximately 3.6 to 4 Bcf per 1 000 foot of lateral and that's kind of a range that that we feel comfortable with.
So we're still in that range going from '17 to '18 I suppose? Yes.
And then I guess for the PDP wells you've talked about the offset locations the number of PDP wells is 360 or so in the Marcellus the right number to be using? I think it's actually 380-385 something like that.
380-385 okay that's the gross? Yes.
And that will be high as well okay got it.
And then service cost I guess what we've heard from other operators in Appalachia is that unlike some of the oil producing basins there wasn’t really excess margins service companies who're generating last year so the view is that given 2015 dynamics they don’t have that much room to give to where the types of cost deflation we're seeing from the oil basins of 20%-25% expected Q4-to-Q4 may not be realized so I think you did say that 25% is possible but what would you say about that context provided by other Appalachian operators? Well I would just make a statement about our own experience and the each service provider can be a little bit unique on what their ultimate goal is some would prefer to capture margin and some would prefer to keep their equipment and their personnel busy and they would sacrifice margin.
So our operation is a very consolidated acreage position.
We have a very efficient operation from the standpoint of the service providers and I'll talk about frac crews just as being the highest percentage of any one completed well besides the rigs but we move from one location to the other and everything is set up ready to go so they keep their equipment and personnel running 24x7 I think very efficient.
And I think that is attractive to them but you look at the reduction that we've referenced already and we go from say $7 million well to $6 million to $6.5 million well we're already seeing those incremental reductions in service cost and again whatever the rest of the market does is and what service cost realizations they see it's going to be all unique and individual but we are seeing service cost reductions.
And a final one for me thanks so much.
The final one is your transportation cost I guess $0.70 or so from 65 or so in '14 if you look forward to 2016 what do you think that could look like? Well it's probably going to be close to the same a lot of that's dependent on if the transport cost end up with our customers or not.
Could you repeat that I'm sorry? So the additional transport cost will be realized by constitution Atlantic Sunrise if those rates are shown up in the revenue by higher gas prices to offset the transport cost.
But I guess you would have a separate line item for transport and the revenue line will show up separately? Yes.
Yes it will.
So if you were to just strip out the transport cost of constitution it came on as expected in '16 could you hazard a guess what that line? Yes well we anticipate in '16 is having a similar range of transportation cost as our current guidance.
The next question comes from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
To start in terms of dropping the rigs activity are you terminating rig contracts early to reduce the rig count and could you just talk about the process involved in dropping the rigs any cost you're incurring and did you explore other options including drilling wells and deferring the completions? Yes I'll let Steve why don’t you go at that.
Yes Joe in the South region the first rig that we released had a very short-term contract on it so we were within that term.
We are still negotiating the terms of that release with our other contractor whether we add time on so forth and that’s what we're working on right now.
Could you talk about other options that you've explore or exploring in terms of including drilling wells that defer in completions as EOG announced yesterday? Yes as Dan stated in his comments will edge the year with about 20 Eagle Ford wells in inventory and so that’s completion activity that we have scheduled for the later part of the year that we're going defer into '16.
And could we just review again the trajectory of production for the year.
So are you expecting production to be up in the first quarter? Sounds like if maybe down the second and down in third and then is it going be a fairly meaningful ramp in the fourth quarter and you expect fourth quarter to be kind of a flattish with 4Q '14.
Could you just help us with that and break it up North versus South if you could.
Well I think you summed it up on what our expectations is through the year than we've given that 50% to 60% expected growth in the liquids for the year.
Liquids production or the production profile in the South region is going to be more consistent than the production profile that we guided and put into our program in the North region we have more flexibility on swing volumes in the North region and the Marcellus area then we do in the South region.
So I guess that level summary Joe we would kind of maintain and grow a little bit of our production year-over-year in the South region and in the North region higher first quarter just like you grow through the year.
The second quarter third quarter down and then increasing again in the fourth quarter.
And then lastly just a quick one.
So for constitution just to be clear are there not any other permits that you need including Army Corps of Engineers just to be clear on that.
I'll pass that to Jeff.
Yes the Army Corps of Engineers permit is included within the New York permits as well.
The next question comes from Holly Stewart with Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Just maybe a couple of quick follow ups Jeff appreciate all the detail on the different pipes.
Could you just maybe sum up '15 to '17 for both FT and FS for us? I'm sorry I didn’t quite catch the question.
Just the overall firm sales and firm's transportation total.
What's the detail on the different pipes? Could you just give us your overall position? I think our current sales is -- we have a lot we currently have and some we have later this year and certainly in 2016 and '17.
I don’t have -- all added up your query I'm sorry.
We'll follow back up.
And then maybe the Dan or Scott just kind of back to the capital allocation.
Should we expect anything on the share repo in 2015? We don’t have that as a budget item.
You're going have to see a different price point in both of oil and gas for us to make that consideration both commodities are fairly low and number of companies are struggling even to make a program that they can maintain some level of growth and also fund.
So it's not in the cards right now and the only way it's going to get into consideration would be having a difference in the price points from today.
And then one final one just on upper Marcellus anything in the 70 net wells and then were there any changes to your booking there? So our focus right now is to complete in the deeper section first.
And then we will have a long-term plan that would move up the whole as we continue drilling off the field.
The next question comes from Marshall Carver with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
A question on the seasonality of production is there any reason that pattern wouldn’t persist in future years like '16 and '17 maybe wouldn’t be quite as dramatic.
But is there any reason to pick that wouldn’t happen again with line purchase et cetera.
Yes possibly a couple of reasons.
One would be that we're restricted right now and reason why we have punitive differentials is because the volumes of gas moving into the three pipes up there.
In the future we would expect the pipes that Jeff has been talking about that are on the drawing board and moving forward and have expected commissioning dates with those pipes and allowing additional gas to get out that particular area and also those three pipes in particular is going to allow certainly different dynamics going forward than we're experiencing today.
I can't predict exactly what the impact is going to be on supply side or the demand side let's say at the end of 2017.
But I can say that we're going to have a significant level of additional volumes of our gas that would be sinking and priced in different markets than we're experiencing today.
So operationally Marshall we could still have operational floor waters and pressures on pipes based on the amount of volume we're including but I think the opportunity to -- the flexibility that additional price is going to afford us and the future is going to be fairly significant.
So with constitution coming on in the second half of next year maybe you could give some seasonality between Q1 and Q2 but you wouldn't expect this once constitution comes online.
Yes and I would say you would probably see since there is not the volumes of gas that have access to the aircore system I would say that you would probably on those particular volumes I would think that you probably would not see as much of the seasonality effect on that pipe and as we experienced today on the pipes Tennessee the Leidy and the Millennium with the volumes of gas that was trying to force their way on those pipes today.
And one more question do you have expected lateral links for the Marcellus completions or the Marcellus wells that will be going online this year versus last year and also the expected number of stages in '15.
Don't have the granular nature of the stages but will be over 5 000 foot on our lateral links.
Your next question comes from Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Just two quick questions from me.
On constitution I wanted to clarify to hopefully get a little bit more color on how you're thinking about those volumes in 2016 and beyond.
Is the plan to potentially shift some of your existing production away from Leidy and Tennessee into that pipe and therefore improved margin or are you planning on completing new wells to grow production into 2016.
Both are really good questions.
The indices in the price received and the three pipe areas that all of the operators are exposed to right now up in that six county area there is going to be somewhat of a determining factor on whether or not we release the amount of gas that is on those three pipes by just a flat sale transfer of 0.5 Bcf actually it would be 650 million a day because Southwest is part of that constitution pipeline being 650 million a day capacity or would it be an incremental volumes of that we flow into the pipe.
And that decision Matt is going to be a combination of price point and the ability to diverse the amount of gas that is flowing into those three pipes with some of the new pipes that are coming online Leidy Southeast the impact on those three pipes the TETCO expansion and some of the other smaller projects that Jeff mentioned.
So I can say this though but from a planning standpoint we're going to be prepared to have incremental volumes going into the constitution pipeline but we're also going to remain focused on the best returns and price rationalization what the market has not done that for us.
And then my second follow up as you talk about previously your Eagle Ford assets continue to improve in terms of the breakeven economics given the enhanced completions you put into place.
Could you provide some color as to how you are thinking about potential reaccelerating that program in the out years and potentially what commodity price you need to see at this point given service costs to that risk factor in that market.
Well again our balanced focus Matt has been on let's look at the amount of cash flow we're generating and the amount of cash flow we generate is going to kind of dictate what we do with our capital program.
So it would go hand in hand we have a higher price point better cash flow will level into a consideration for adding rigs whether it'd be in the Marcellus or the Eagle Ford.
It is our objective though in the Eagle Ford to maintain all the acreage we have out there.
We like what we're seeing we like what the group is doing now and we like the returns that we can get but at 50 bucks we're not impressed with the returns at 50 bucks.
At 60 bucks 65 bucks certainly it has a return profile that starts getting attractive again.
The next question comes from Robert Christensen with Imperial Capital.
Please go ahead.
First question is how do you balance between debt pay down and share buyback what are things we should think of in that decision? I'd say good financial question and I have a financial expert sitting right across the table in front of me.
Bob its Scott Schroeder as Dan alluded to based on Holly's question in terms of the repurchase clearly for 2015 the question you pose isn’t on the table in line of how far we have to ratchet back our capital program and we're still not quite exact equal with cash flow but at the end of the day when we're balancing that decision in different times we're looking at the disconnect between the underlying value we see in the shares and what the market at any one moment is giving for our shares in the marketplace.
We've seen those disconnects over the last couple of years and that's why between probably between '13 and '14 we've brought in just under 10 million shares on that kind of dynamic.
In terms of the termination of a couple of the rigs I guess we haven’t seen the expense related to whatever negotiations that you're having with the rig provider is that in front of us some termination type expense? Yes we balled it up in our capital program number it's in the $900 million number.
And my final question is could you just put a little more color out there on this concept of gas by wire if you will off of Leidy and Panda and other projects? What's the timeframe of some of these potential projects and volumes? And the economics I guess versus selling gas directly on a pipeline to somebody I think? Does it sound interesting? So Bob some of the projects that are being proposed is actually in excess of 20 I have on my desk that we're interested in some more than others some that we have very good access to some that maybe more difficult to get to and I'm talking about transportation path.
But there's a lot of projects planned in the Mid Atlantic states and in Pennsylvania.
There's been a push to in conjunction with the ISO in that area to build some power generation and feed it with local supply.
But we're looking at projects that are closed back Susquehanna County or have direct routes pipeline routes that we can reach these projects.
I think the some of the plans we did mention the Panda project they probably have four or five other projects that are well on the way in terms of finding locations and permitting the financing and so forth.
But most of these guys they get their power deal done first in other words access to the rig and then they come to gas suppliers and they have their wish list and we have our wish list and we try to work through those and come to terms.
There's a group of power generators of the aircore system that we're working with as well and there are some off the Tennessee system and there are some off the Leidy system.
This is one of the process that goes on probably next five years to 10 years even just a lot of opportunity for power generation with natural gas with coal retirements and with coal switching and oil switching.
So it's a piece of a demand puzzle and it's very active and very dynamic and we're situated in Northeast corner we're probably the closest supply to the market there is and so we're comfortable with these kind of markets.
And we'll probably be announcing if we are very successful in the next year or two on some of these projects.
The next question comes from Eric Otto with CLSA Americas.
Please go ahead.
Just a quick follow up on the DEC can you give us a little bit of color behind your thinking about the permit approval in 2Q just sort of thinking about the fact that the DEC has never had to reveal linear pipeline project in this magnitude the time it took them to issue notice of completing application and attendance at the three our public hearings? Well I think at some point Williams I think they had their call yesterday they had I think they had some questions on this as well.
The way we understand process and getting feedback from Williams on the progress I'm not sure I agree with what you said about the magnitude of the project versus what DEC assumed in the past there is lots of major pipelines through the state of New York of gas pipeline lots of power lots water lines and so on so forth.
This is a relative simple 124 mile pipeline through old New York it's got its environment challenge as all pipelines do.
I think New York the EC is being very careful and thorough examination of the route and issues and listening to the concerns of surface owners and are doing that what they should be doing.
And at the end of day we have to get a permit that let us pipeline be build in a timeframe that we've illustrated so far.
I guess just hypothetically if this led to 3Q.
How does that impact construction in the end services day would it move it out significantly? No I think I mentioned earlier it's going to be a year of construction plus or minus a month or so depending on when the permits actually come out.
And when the notice to proceed is granted by FERC just given the windows during the construction period.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Right appreciate everybody's interest in Cabot.
I think we've been able to demonstrate a good '14 program.
We have queued down '15 program but our expectation is that we will end the year in a very good order.
And we look forward to our next conference call.
Thank you Gary.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in a listen-only mode.
[Operator Instructions] After today’s presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
[Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Dinges Chairman CEO and President.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Dan and good morning all.
Thank you all for joining us today for the Cabot first quarter call.
With me today as usual are several of our management team.
Before we start the standard boilerplate regarding forward-looking statements do apply to my comments today.
I would first like to touch upon a few financial and operating highlights from the first quarter that were outlined in this morning’s press release.
First equivalent net production for the first quarter was slightly above 1.9 Bcfe per day an increase of 43% over the prior year’s comparable quarter and a sequential increase of 15% over the fourth quarter.
Of particular note our daily liquids production for the quarter increased 132% compared to the prior year’s comparable quarter and 20% sequentially over the fourth quarter highlighting the success of our team in the Eagle Ford.
Net income excluding select items for the quarter was 49 million or $0.12 per share and discretionary cash flow for the quarter was $240 million.
Both of these items decreased relative to the first quarter of ’14 due to a 34% decline in realized natural gas prices and a 55% decline in realized oil prices.
On the cost side our team continues to work hard and deliver on driving down unit cost which is evidenced by the 10% decline in cash unit cost to $1.22 per Mcfe.
I think this decline is even more impressive when considering that we have increased the percentage of oil focused activity in our mix which typically is more costly to operate on a per unit basis.
Additionally we reaffirmed guidance even with the planned curtailment which is I think the right economic decision.
In the Marcellus our operational results for the quarter exceeded expectations.
The company averaged over 2 Bcf per day of gross Marcellus production which is 1.7 Bcf per day of net production an increase as mentioned previously 43% over last year’s comparable quarter.
We completed 19 wells and play 17 wells on production which drove the 16% sequential growth for the quarter.
These production levels highlight the productivity of our Marcellus assets and demonstrates that the asset quality and well performance are quite unique assets for Cabot.
However we would like to see more favorable natural gas prices which we anticipate will materialize upon the in-service of several new takeaway projects in our area scheduled over the next 12 to 18 months along with a continued increase in natural gas demand growth.
I want to also highlight that during the first quarter the state of Pennsylvania began reporting monthly production data and did report for both January and February Cabot was the top producer in Pennsylvania which is not bad for a company that has never operated more than six rigs in the state.
Marcellus pricing continues to be the primary focus of our conversations with shareholders and I imagine is front of mind for everybody on this call today.
Our first-quarter natural gas realizations were $2.46 per Mcf which is $0.52 below the average NYMEX price for the quarter an improvement relative to the $1.04 differential in the fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of the hedges our realizations were $0.75 below NYMEX as compared to $1.21 in the fourth quarter of ’14.
Primary driver of the differential narrowing quarter-to-quarter was that our marketing team was able to secure a meaningful amount of favorable fixed price contracts for the winter season prior to the most recent decline in natural gas prices.
Many of these deals do roll off in March.
However we do have over 20% of our expected volumes sold at a fixed price above $2 in the second quarter.
Based on our current view of where the regional indices will sell over the quarter we anticipate that second-quarter price realizations will be between $0.82 and $0.92 below NYMEX and before the impact of hedges.
Additionally we anticipate another $0.40 to $0.45 uplift in realized prices from our hedges based on the current strip.
Since we frequently get asked the question we have provided a split of our pricing exposure by index on our website which should provide some clarity on how we’re marketing our gas for the quarter.
We anticipate that the third quarter will look similar to the second quarter as it relates to the percentage of sales by index.
As we have guided we have reduced our production volumes for the second quarter relative to the first quarter in response to our expectation of continued weakness in pricing during the second quarter some of which is being driven by numerous maintenance and construction projects directly related to our downstream market.
Virtually all of the pipelines our production reaches have planned or scheduled projects during the second quarter.
Most notably is the new looping of the Transco-Leidy line in conjunction with the Leidy Southeast expansion project.
Although this expansion of 525 million cubic foot per day of new capacity will ultimately be very beneficial to Cabot at in-service in December of this year.
The 43-day construction period is expected to affect throughput on the Leidy line currently resulting in pricing pressures during this period.
We expect to produce between 1.55 and 1.6 Bcf per day of gross production in the Marcellus for the second quarter and will continue to monitor the price environment before we make any decisions on selling more gas into the local market.
It is clear from our first-quarter production that we have the ability to move volumes in excess of these base load levels but we are not going to chase production growth to the detriment of cash margins.
As planned we recently decreased our level of activity in the Marcellus to three rigs and one frac crew down from five rigs and two frac crews at the beginning of the year.
Our current operating plan and capital program assumes this level of operating activity remains constant for the balance of 2015.
However in light of our expectations for continued weakness throughout Appalachia during the summer months we do often re-evaluate our program and may consider delaying completions as we await a more favorable price environment in the future again not anticipating affecting our guidance.
In the Eagle Ford – moving on to the Eagle Ford our team had an outstanding quarter operationally in South Texas.
It is evident by the 19% sequential growth in daily liquid volumes over the last quarter.
During the quarter we placed 20 wells on production many of which weren’t [current] [ph] in line until late in the quarter which resulted in the strong sequential production growth.
As a reminder much of this activity was driven by near-term held by production commitments primarily from the acreage we acquired late last year.
If we take a step back and we look at where our Eagle Ford program was a year ago it really highlights the significant improvement we have seen from this asset in a short duration of time.
On last year’s first quarter call we had just made a change in the management team overseeing the program and made the decision to increase our rig count from two to three.
The increase in rig count was predicated on an increase in the return profile to over 50% hoping as a result of well performance enhancements and decreased well cost.
Keep in mind that we were running our economics at $90 per barrel at that point.
we had approximately 600 gross locations identified based on 400 foot spacing and frankly we are pretty excited about the long-term value generation opportunity afforded us by these properties.
If you fast forward 12 months and a lot of things have changed the most obvious thing the underlying commodity price.
However as a result of significant improvements in our operating efficiency and well performance along with a reduction in service cost our operation now eclipsed the same 50% [return] threshold at a price of $65 per barrel which is only $5 higher than today’s 12 month strip.
Relative to the 600 gross locations we had mapped at this time last year we have now increased that location count to over 1300 locations as the result of our bolt on acquisitions in the fourth quarter of last year and the success of our 300 foot down spacing program across our acreage position.
We have also seen a 30% decline in operating cost in South Texas as our team continues to work on driving down our cost structure.
We are currently running two rigs in the play with plans to decrease to one rig by the end of May.
Our plan is to remain at this level throughout year-end.
However we will consider acceleration of completion activity in the Eagle Ford if we see a sustained oil price recovery or further reduction in drilling and completion cost which have decreased to date 20% to 30%.
Now let us move to another area that has many questions in regard to our time with investors on the year end call we discussed a few of the significant accomplishments the constitution had recently achieved such as the FERC Certificate of Public Convenience approving constitution pipeline and the New York DEC formal notice of complete the application for the final New York permit.
Also we briefly discussed the regulatory process in New York requiring a public comment period extension which closed on February 27 2015.
Today we can continue that update with the following.
The project remains on its current schedule for in service during the second half of ’16.
The New York DEC is currently finalizing responses to the comments received during the public comment period.
The constitution now has possession of 100% of all the tracks necessary to begin construction.
The constitution is working towards the finalization of New York State permits by the end of the second quarter and FERC implementation plan is expected to be filed by [Williams] during the second quarter.
Based on the progress during the last few months we continue to be optimistic that construction can begin mid-summer assuming all these permits are in hand.
As we also mentioned in our press release we recently amended our credit facility increasing the total commitment from $1.4 billion to $1.8 billion providing us ample flexibility in this challenged environment.
Our lenders also approved an increase in our borrowing base from $3.1 billion to $3.4 billion despite the lower commodity price environment.
A total of 20 lenders participated in this upsized facility including six new banks.
We are appreciative of the support we saw in this transaction and we believe it demonstrates the quality of our company both operationally and financially.
Pro forma for this increase in commitment we had over 1.5 billion of undrawn commitments as of the end of the first quarter.
In this morning’s press release we initiated second-quarter production guidance which implies slightly over 1.5 Bcfe per day of net equivalent production for the quarter at the midpoint despite the sequential decline in production relative to the first quarter due to the previously mentioned curtailments in the Marcellus.
We have reaffirmed our 2015 production growth guidance range between 10% to 18% based on a stronger than anticipated first quarter and expectations for increase in production above second quarter levels later in the year.
Our capital program for the current year remains unchanged at $900 million.
I would however highlight that not only is our 2015 capital program weighted heavily to the first half of the year the first quarter capital expenditures on the cash flow statement also reflect carry-forward cash outlays associated with the capital incurred in ’14 but not paid until this year.
We have also decreased our unit cost guidance for LOE taxes other than income and DD&amp;A.
These updates can be found on our website.
In summary a strong first quarter production highlights that Cabot is able to achieve operationally strong performance.
Currently lower natural gas prices are a reality through Appalachia however we are optimistic the environment improves over the next few quarters through a combination of decreased levels of operating activity increased demand and new takeaway projects.
Our goal in the interim is to protect margins and ensure we aren’t giving away our valuable resources at marginal prices.
Despite our planned reduction in volumes for the second quarter we remain confident in our production guidance range for the year and continue to be excited about our mid-term outlook as we increase our portfolio of firm sales and firm transportation to close to 3 Bcf per day by the end of ’17 of which approximately 70% reaches markets outside of Appalachia.
With that then I will be more than happy to answer any questions.
[Operator instructions] Our first question comes from Subash Chandra of Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Yes hi good morning.
I was curious strategically if there is any interest at all in securing a southern Marcellus foothold as I suspect there is a shakeout coming the American energy folks of the world et cetera and if there is any interest in doing that and then secondly if you can maybe get more granular on the impressive operating costs experienced in the first quarter? Thanks.
Okay.
First I will respond to any M&amp;A considerations within our company.
We are proactive in evaluating opportunities out there.
Each year I think as you are probably aware that we have our strategy session and certainly in environments as we are in today we have a time set aside in our executive board session just as we did yesterday to talk about all the macro-environment including M&amp;A opportunities considerations.
We are not in any discussions with a southwest Marcellus or Utica opportunities down there but we want to be aware of what opportunities are available and we will continue to evaluate any possible opportunities but specifically for the southwest part of the state again we are not in any transaction discussions or anything at this particular time.
In regard to the operating side of the business two of the guys here Steve Lindeman who is running our South region and Phil Stalnaker running our North region I will let them comment on just some of the things that we have seen in the operating side of our business.
Yes.
For the South region in the first quarter we really tackled our unit saltwater disposal costs.
So that is one of the big drivers and then secondly we switched out some of our treating chemicals and have driven that cost down.
And we’re still looking at – there are some things we are trying to tackle for the second-half of the year in terms of electrification and other things that we can do to reduce our operating cost.
Again for the North region this is more of the same thing on the optimization yet looking at our recycling and our trucking cost just kind of across the board working just to lower the cost.
If I could just follow up just on the Eagle Ford the electrification is I suspect that is for the artificial lifts et cetera is there – do you see that happening in a timely fashion with getting land owner consent and that kind of stuff and given a sense of what kind of operating cost efficiencies we can have by maybe getting off diesel which might be what is being used currently? Yes we do.
We have made a significant effort over the last half of the year and into the first quarter to get right away purchased.
One of the main substations that we need for electrification was put in service in the first quarter.
As a matter of fact we are – some of our team was over there for an opening ceremony last night and we are in the queue for several projects to get put online and we are hoping to have a portion of the field on power kind of into the third quarter of this year.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Deckelbaum of KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Dan just curious if last quarter you alluded to this or you guys communicated that you wouldn’t have a high point in production in the first quarter and naturally with seasonal winter demand and taking advantage of some of the firm sales contracts and then decline into 2Q and 3Q and rebound in the 4Q is the plan today with the reiterated guidance are you guys more or less within the original plan that you had set out a few months ago? Yes we are.
We cannot predict exactly what the realizations were going to be.
We thought they were going to be a little softer.
We were glad to see quarter-over-quarter a little bit of reduction in the differentials but our plans is still intact with our original guidance.
And just for context and maybe you could go into little bit more how you are managing the curtailments I know that there is downtime associated with project maintenance and construction but just allowing sort of field volume pressures to build and naturally curtailing volumes that way and what sort of recovery in prices are we thinking about before you would start accelerating the volumes here? Well we are not going to go into specifics on the pricing for that decision process David.
But we do expect to see better realizations later in the year than we anticipated during this period when the maintenance projects were going to be implemented and you were in the shoulder months.
In regard to our field operations and methodology of how we are reducing the volumes out there we have discussed in the past that we have a very flexible gathering system that allows us to move gas even from one particular pad to multiple outlets.
We do anticipate that as we raise the field pressures in the field and allow that to happen that we would naturally bring down some of the volumes that we would be moving into the pipe.
And so it is not a shut in a particular portion of the field and produce the others at those volumes that they were at.
It is more of a across-the-board consideration of how we would bring the field pressures up a little bit to allow the volumes to be reduced.
Got it and if I could just raise here one more perhaps for Jeff or anyone who wants to take it with Constitution potentially coming on in the summertime of ’16 how are you guys thinking about the [ends] [ph] market there right now in terms of pricing and is it – I know that you would partially do it naturally be better than Appalachia but do you have a sense of how close that pricing should be to NYMEX and what you see – how you see that dynamic kind of building out? Well certainly on a historic look the price points up there at that [right station] [ph] and into that line are close to the NYMEX pricing.
Various times of the year it exceeds NYMEX pricing by a considerable margin.
We’ve already kind of broadcast that we will make that call on how we would roll into the Constitution volumes whether it would be just total incremental volumes to what our current production is at that point in time of commissioning or if it will be a phase in by displacing the volumes from our current price points to the Constitution pipeline.
I think it is safe to say at that point in time regardless of when Constitution is commissioned whether it is in the middle of summer or right at the beginning of the third quarter I think it is safe to say that those price points more likely if they are consistent with historic is going to be at a higher better price point than the current indices that we are selling into.
So we would naturally move and fill 100% of constitution immediately but it may be just a displacement from the Millennium or Transco or Tennessee lines.
Thanks for that color Dan.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Brian.
Actually wanted to follow up on that exact point which is how you strategically determine the appropriate mix of filling constitution with production you already have versus kind of new production when do you have to make that call? Are you planning on increasing your production capacity from where it is today by the full 500 million a day and then you make that – you can make that call at the last second or is there a point where earlier on where you have to figure out your rig count and make that call on the split between transferring production currently oversupplying or potentially oversupplying the local market versus new production to go onto constitution? That is a big question Brian and how I answer the question will be dependent upon how much I make Phil Stalnaker squirm over here in front of me.
But keep in mind that the capital intensity necessary for us to ramp up our volumes is minimal comparatively speaking when you look across the space to be able to find another half a Bcf a day.
The driving consideration for that volume of production is going to be not necessarily in the rig count but it is going to be how we stage in frac crews to allow timely completions of those wells that we have in the queue.
So the plan building up to that decision point it would be our intent to have in the queue that will allow us to have that maximum flexibility is to have wells drilled and in the queue waiting on completion if you will as opposed to backing up a step and saying that we haven’t even drilled the wells or drill those pad sides yet.
So when you get towards the end of this year the discussions that we will have with the North will be all right let us look at our capital program let us look at our cash flow let us look at the dynamics of the macro market and let us make a call on bringing on another rig if we felt we needed it in the first part of 2016 but also looking at ahead at the end of the second quarter beginning of the third quarter how many frac crews do we want have land up to get ready to move those volumes in the constitution.
Again keep in mind that constitution is going to be failed immediately upon commissioning the decision is going to be do we back fill Tennessee Transco Millennium with those volumes and how long do we want to take to backfill those volumes.
But at the end of this year as we go into the planning stage for our initial budget for 2016 which we present to the board in October will have some of these discussions.
Great thanks.
And my follow up is if you could just two other points one whether you’re seeing any substantive cost deflation that unrelated to your activity levels could push down your budget this year or not.
And then your outlook for committing to additional substantive [indiscernible] arrangements? Once you cover the midstream going to have that’s going to roll out.
Okay Brian this is Jeff.
I think there is a number of smaller projects that were involved with what we felt this fall being the very important project that we’ve some long term sales associated with the petroleum per pricing.
There is of course following up with that there is the Columbia east side expansion we’ve some additional capacity come along at that point.
After that we have of course constitution midsummer of next year and those are the – more or less short term drivers on new capacity and Atlantic Sunrise in 2017 and also new project for Tennessee at the smaller scale project about 150 000 a day that’s – over into New Jersey area from our production area.
So that’s the kind of the short longer term of projects.
And Brian on your question about cost let me just answer this and if I don’t answer this and if I don’t answer fully just let me know but we do anticipate seeing additional incremental cost reductions and the inter operations we have not realized any of the saving as state indicated inside electrification of solar operations in the Eagle Ford.
But we also think that the service providers are up also obtaining and getting additional cost concessions from their providers that would naturally be shared somehow with the operators.
So we do anticipate that additional cost reductions would roll through our program between now and year end.
Great thank you.
Thank you Brian.
Our Next question comes from Pearce Hammond of Simmons please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
Dan there are being many reports in the press about frac log or significant backlog of drill but not completed wells and previously Q1 earnings you said that cabbage should exit 2015 with approximately 45 wells in the queue for 2016 in the Marcellus and approximately 20 wells in the Eagle Ford and I know you talked about this little bit in the Q&amp;A and in some prepared remarks.
But I want to see if that was still the case and then if so how do these figures compare to the number of wells that you had queued up entering this year and if you have any big picture thoughts regarding this industry frac log is it real is it overstated or what not love to get that color as well? Well first off on our expectations for year end 2015 we do still maintain our expectations 20 wells in the Eagle Ford and 45 wells or so in the Marcellus that is going to remain consistent I don’t see much getting in the way of that expectation.
In regard to frac log and looking at the backlog it’s always seems to be a moving number that you see out there and I’ve seen different accounts what is backlog at any one give time.
I do know that from a operation standpoint and I’ll talk more geographically about say where that could have a larger impact in our Northeast Pennsylvania in that six county area if you look at that area we’ve talked in the past about how many rigs are running and how many frac crews are up there.
Our most recent intelligence is that you had through say January February March a certain number of rigs running up there and most recently in April we place the number of rigs up there in that particular area and our neck of the woods had only 12 rigs that are currently running and we have at any given time 6 to 8 frac crews operating in that neck of the wood.
Now if you do the simple math and you look at the 8BCF or so a day that's kind of coming from that area 12 rigs and 6 rig frac crews are going to have one hell of a time keeping up with any natural declines that you might suspect from the volumes that are being produced.
Now do you think that there were and have been just like we had some curtailed volumes that could keep maybe back filling some of that gas volume and you are maybe today not seeing any type of real inflection point but it doesn’t take a [indiscernible] to do the quick numbers on RPs and 30 day averages and all that for those number of pieces to the equipment to say that there has to be some depletion of the backlog if you will and the ability of wells to keep up with the natural depletion that would occur and under those circumstances.
So on 2014 at the end of 2014 I think we had a similar number we might actually have a couple of more wells at the end of 2015 as we had at the end of 2014 but for the most part we are going to have a similar backlog for us.
Thank you for that.
That color is very helpful and then my follow-up is some oil service providers have highlighted the tremendous opportunity in re-fracing wells can you see the same opportunity for Cabot and so and in what region? Well I have had a just a recent discussion with Phil in regard to our Eagle Ford operation just the industry in general on kind of what’s being done out there and then it kind of end up in a high level I’ll let him just kind of talk about maybe some of the areas that a re-frac might be considered.
So Pearce when we look at that successful re-frac throughout the industry really what has been targeted is wells that have had I would say less sand concentration or lower con activity of frac jobs pump as compared to what the current standard would be and then secondly a group of wells that might have different pup clustering then what's being used.
So a lot of people are targeting wells that may have been let’s say pup at 100 foot spacing and now what people are targeting 50 foot spacing and the same thing kind of on the sand basis where people may have done 800 pounds per foot versus now what people are pumping closer towards 1600 pounds per foot.
Cabot does have some opportunity for refracs.
I would say that we would target those when we would do the down spaced wells and do those in conjunction with that so you could get the full benefit of the zipper frac both on the refrac and on the new wells that we drill in the down spaced perspective.
Great.
Well thank you very much for the color.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Christensen of Imperial Capital.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
My understanding that 60 days after the public commentary in New York which ended February 27 under the uniform procedures that 60 days we should have some news out of the DEC of New York at that would imply next week.
Is that the case we should hear from them one way or another next week? No Bob that's not the understanding we have from – at this time.
The DEC has taken the time to thoroughly review the comments that were submitted in the public comment period.
Our understanding is that they are close to releasing the answers so to speak on these comments.
There is still some work in progress surrounding the permits but we made a lot of progress here in the last couple of months and our expectations are that those permits will be issued sometime in the second quarter May June time period.
And if you could answer a little bit about nothing materially that was – Absolutely.
So from the comments that have been submitted our understanding from Williams is that the comments are very similar in nature that the comments were submitted to PERC as so there has been nothing in their review of the comment has been substantially different I guess than what they have seen before so we are encouraged by that so far.
One worry I have is that they would come with something that said we have got to study this and study it equally to the study period of the PERC and that period I believe took from February and go forward to October February 14 to October 14 like 8 months.
And we want the same time that the said tab I am studying this that's the concern I have.
Should I have that concern that they can come with that type of thing.
I think the application for the permit has been in New York DEC hands for a much longer period of time than what you’re referring to I think they have had a very lengthy time to review.
Got it.
Well thank you very much.
Thanks Bob.
Our next question comes from David Beard from Iberia.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
I apologize if this question has been asked to access I’ve trouble getting on my call but I just wanted to review just to see to have a bit more volatile production here first quarter second quarter I was surprised with the prices being fairly week I would have expected volumes to be commensurately low or can you just talk a little bit about the press volume relationship I know we are talking a fairly short term point of view and maybe what to expect on forward relative to that price volume relationship? Well we made an early determination and based on our crystal ball which again is no better than anybody else but with our crystal ball we made and placed our guidance out there early on that did take in considerations curtailed volumes and where we are right now our first quarter volumes were robust and we felt good about our operational performance in the first quarter but in the second quarter when anticipation again the maintenance projects and all particularly affecting the pipes that we sell into up in the Marcellus we thought that by the continued supply increase and the construction project and maintenance projects up there that we would see softness in prices at this period of time.
I think that is holding true.
We are backing up some of the volumes and we think just from a prudency standpoint to protect shareholders assets and not to compromise our margin to the extent that the current price would yield we think it is prudent in this environment to take some of the gas and protect our margins.
I think that's a prudent economics decision on our part and we are going to stick to that.
That's helpful.
And just to change subjects on a follow-up given we have seen some reduced rigs operating in the Marcellus both east and west do you think there will be an impact relative to production from the curtailment in the second half of the year or is that likely to be pushed off into next year for the industry? I think by the second half of the year whether or not you see a rollover is debatable I think you will see a possible inflection point in any of the growth profile.
Again back to just the numbers that are out in front of us if you believe that up in that 6 can area that there is in April beginning in April there were 12 rigs running and 6 to 8 frac crews in that area and producing approximately 8 BCF a day even if all those wells were to the degree and to the performance levels of Cabot type wells you are going to have a difficult time being able to maintain much less grow the production volumes from that product base.
So I think the numbers have reflected that the other wells that are drilled out there are not like Cabot wells and so therefore I would be inclined to believe that some point in time you are going to see an inflection point on the volumes produced.
Now that's helpful.
Thank you gentlemen.
I appreciate the time.
Thanks David.
Our next question comes from Dan Guffey of Stifel please go ahead.
Thanks.
You guys continue to generate salary results and you referred specially compared to earlier vintage wells I guess could you give details surrounding your current standard completion zone and any technical improvements you are currently testing to further enhance productivity? Well I will get real granular on it but I will let Steve answer some of this but our lateral links are beyond 6000 feet and our profit per lateral foot is 1600 or so right now when we certainly are aware that some companies have gone up to 2300 2400 maybe 2500 pounds per lateral foot and our south region will explore with some of that as we continue our operation we have got our down spacing program that we feel comfortable with and have a number of pilot programs that had given us the confidence at 300 down spaced is going to be how we place our wells from this point forward as we have been successful in maintaining our primary term acreage and we have had responsive landowners negotiate with us in regard to the timing of obligatory wells or continuous development wells out there on their properties some of those mineral owners do not want to produce their well into a low price environment.
So we have been able to extend some time on those particular leases.
So between now and the year with one rig and a not a 24/7 frac crew some of the experimentation if you will and completion efforts that we would be implementing are not going to be very numerous simply because we are kind of in a somewhat of a holding pattern with one rig and one crew.
Okay.
Thanks for the detail.
You kind of touched on the 300 foot space in your prepared remarks just now I am curious how many pilots you have at 300 feet space is that kind of standard completion is on and how are you looking at it is it stack and staggers or are you just landing kind of in the lower zone and keeping it at 300 foot apart.
Well we are in the lower zone with our 300 foot spacing but we have several points within the lower zone that we are landing our wells.
And we have 20 or 30 of the pilots that are out there that have shown good results.
But again we have not gotten to the point of doing anything yet in the upper Eagle Ford on the staggers that some have been talking about.
Our staggers are in a narrower range within the lower Eagle Ford on our placements.
But we have also had 300 foot space laterals that have been in the same landing points also within the lower Eagle Ford that we feel comfortable about.
Okay.
Great.
And you touched on M&amp;A previously but curious do you guys are interested in seeing bolt on acquisitions and opportunities in South Texas? Well again to not get granular on it we look at all the opportunities that are available out there.
We are just fresh up taking up two properties that were good fits to our operation in the Eagle Ford that we closed in the fourth quarter the results that we have seen from that efforts proved out an efficient program and consistency with our expectations or exceeding expectations with the wells that we drilled on those properties.
So it all comes together and you can get into an environment that is little bit more robust and a $50 roll price then it will make sense.
Thanks.
I appreciate your color guys.
Yes thank you Dan.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Okay.
Right appreciate it appreciate everybody's focus on Cabot as you are well aware and we are all well aware we are in a challenged commodity price environment in both oil and gas efficiencies are being realized and cost reductions realized the radar operations both side cash cost basis for our unit production but also in our capital program and we expect to see continued improvement throughout the year.
And thanks again for your interest in Cabot.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cabot Oil and Gas Corporation's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Kate and thank you all for joining us this morning for the second quarter earnings call.
With me today as usual are several members of the executive team.
Before we start let me say that the standard boilerplate regarding forward statements do apply to my comments today.
First I'd like to touch upon a few financial and operating highlights from the second quarter that were outlined in this morning's press release.
Equivalent net production for the second quarter was 1 516 million cubic foot equivalent per day.
Our quarterly results reflect the impact of our previously announced strategic decision to reduce our production levels during the quarter as a result of the lower price realizations throughout Appalachia.
We estimate that we reduced our gross production volumes by approximately 500 million cubic foot per day during the quarter.
Despite this significant reduction in volumes during the second quarter the company's equivalent production for the first half of 2015 increased 25% as compared to the first half of 2014 and the company's liquid production for the first half of 2015 increased 95% relative to the first half of 2014.
The company generated a net loss of $0.07 per share for the quarter.
However when adjusting for select items including a $36.5 million non-cash mark-to-market loss on derivatives Cabot generated adjusted earnings of $0.03 per share.
Operating cash flow discretionary cash flow and EBITDAX were $171 million $183 million $204 million respectively.
All of these financial metrics were lower relative to the second quarter of 2014 primarily as a result of a 38% decline in realized natural gas prices and a 43% decline in realized oil prices.
Moving to specific comments regarding the Marcellus.
As I mentioned in light of the continued weakness in Appalachian pricing we curtailed a significant level of volumes in the Marcellus during the second quarter.
And we plan to continue this strategy into the third quarter as we await potential improvement in pricing in the fourth quarter with the addition of new takeaway capacity and stronger winter demand.
While our marketing team continues to take advantage of short-term opportunities to improve netbacks in the Marcellus there are limitations on the pricing front in the near term as we await some of the larger more impactful projects like Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise pipelines.
However we continue to accomplish our ongoing focus of enhancing margins by improving the cost side of our operations through efficiencies and also with cost reductions.
Drilling operations in the Marcellus continue to set new records for the company.
Our SPUD to SPUD cycle time during the quarter was under 15 days as compared to approximately 19 days for full-year 2014 due in large part to new highs established for gross feet drilled per day during the quarter.
As a result of these efficiencies we have seen a 15% reduction in cost at rig release year-to-date.
We anticipate further cost reductions as we move into 2016 as two rig contracts will expire in December of this year and our expectations are for a significant reduction in day rates going forward.
On the completion side of our operations we have been successful in working with our service providers to realize additional cost reductions.
All of these drilling and completion efficiencies and savings have allowed us to achieve the lower end or slightly below our $6 million to $6.5 million range for a completed well cost.
I would like to highlight that our wells placed on production year-to-date in 2015 are tracking our industry's best type curve of 3.6 Bcf per thousand feet highlighting the consistency of our wells throughout our lease position.
Regarding pricing our second quarter natural gas realizations were $2.15 per Mcf which is $0.49 below the average NYMEX for the quarter an improvement relative to the $0.52 differential in the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of hedges our realizations were $0.89 below NYMEX.
Assuming the regional differentials we observed in the second quarter persist in the third quarter we anticipate that Cabot's third quarter price realizations will be somewhere between $0.95 and $1.05 below NYMEX before the impact of hedges.
Additionally we anticipate another $0.30 to $0.35 per Mcf uplift in realized prices from our hedges based on the current strip.
If you want more details on the split of our pricing exposure by index check out our guided slide on the website.
Similar to the second quarter we expect to produce between 1.55 Bcf and 1.6 Bcf per day of gross production in the Marcellus during the third quarter.
We will continue to be patient as we anticipate a better opportunity to move additional volumes in the local market.
We firmly believe that stronger demand and improved price realizations for Cabot are on the horizon and we will continue to be disciplined in our approach to managing through this lower price environment as we have through all the commodity cycles.
The bottom line is that we remain focused on improving margins and returns and maximizing long-term value which I believe is evident by our ability to continue to efficiently grow our production and reserves in this low price environment without straining our balance sheet or issuing equity.
This clearly sets us apart in the industry.
In the Eagle Ford couple of comments there.
Our second quarter volumes were flat to our first quarter volumes despite decreasing our rig count to one and slowing down our completion activity.
Our efficiencies in the field continue to improve as we have decreased our drilling days by about 20% relative to 2014 and increased the average number of completions per day by about 20%.
As a reminder much of our activity in the first half of the year was driven by near-term primary lease terms and continuous development obligations.
Given that we have already met the majority of these obligations for 2015 we only plan to operate one rig during the second half of the year.
We still anticipate exiting the year with over 20 wells waiting on completion.
We frequently get asked at what price we would look to accelerate our completion activity in the Eagle Ford.
Despite the significant reduction in cost that we have achieved upwards of 30% across all service lines we do not believe that allocating incremental capital in the Eagle Ford is the prudent investment decision in this oil price environment especially given the implied increases in cash flow deficit that would result from the increased spending.
Okay.
let's move to Constitution Pipeline update.
During our first quarter teleconference we highlighted the additional progress that was made regarding our efforts to finalize the permit process for Constitution.
Today we can continue that update with the following.
Constitution filed its implementation plan with the FERC on May 19 2015.
This was a critical step documenting how Constitution will comply with the environmental conditions placed in the FERC order and it's the last step prior to the FERC issuing its Notice to Proceed regarding construction.
Also Constitution is now providing a weekly update to the FERC.
Constitution filed its final reroute variance report also with the FERC last week.
This completes all outstanding issues regarding the route and Constitution now has 100% of the required right of ways.
Regarding the New York DEC our understanding is the last reroute that I just mentioned was one of the final loose ends prior to their issuance of 401 water quality permit.
Therefore our expectations are that we are very close to wrapping up and completing all remaining New York DEC outstanding issues.
In summary we continue to make important progress and remain optimistic that we will receive final clearance so that we can begin construction this fall and place the project into service during the second half of 2016.
Regarding our third quarter guidance production guidance included in the press release this morning implies approximately 1.5 Bcfe per day of net equivalent production at the midpoint.
Natural gas guidance for the quarter is unchanged relative to second quarter guidance while the midpoint of our liquid volumes we reduced by 1 500 barrels per day as a result of the slowdown in completion activity that we have discussed previously due to front-end loaded capital program resulting from drilling obligations in the first half of the year.
We have remained our 2015 full-year production growth guidance range of 10% to 18%.
If we were to hold the midpoint of our third quarter guidance flat into the fourth quarter we would achieve the low end of our full-year guidance.
However we do anticipate at least a moderate ramp in our Marcellus volumes in the fourth quarter in response to seasonal winter demand.
Our capital program for 2015 remains unchanged at $900 million.
We have received a few questions about our program spending this year so I'd like to take a brief moment to clarify our guidance.
The $900 million for 2015 refers to the capital associated with activity incurred in 2015 for this year's operating plan.
However because of the timing gap between activity incurred and payments for services we have had cash outflows this year associated with activity incurred in 2014.
And because of the significant decline in capital spending year-over-year we are in a position this year where cash outflows on the cash flow statement will be higher than our capital guidance for the year.
The majority of this impact occurred in the first half of the year where the capital incurred for 2015 activity was $540 million but the capital expenditure on the cash flow statement were approximately $660 million.
The $550 million incurred in the first half of the year for our 2015 program is approximately 60% of our full-year guidance which is in fact below the 65% guidance we provided last quarter.
Our unit cost guidance for the year remains unchanged.
However I would highlight that year-to-date cash unit costs were $1.25 per Mcf $0.07 below the midpoint of our full-year guidance.
This includes a $0.85 per Mcf cash unit cost in the Marcellus and a $15 per barrel cash unit cost in the Eagle Ford.
While we are pleased with these low costs the mandate the organization has is to continue to focus on further improving our cost structure.
As for 2016 we're still in the planning phase and we'll have more detail to provide on the third quarter call in October once we've had an opportunity to fully vet our plans with the board including an updated review of our five-year plan.
Based on a preliminary look at the five-year plan we are extremely excited about the long-term value created by our Marcellus asset as we begin to assess more favorable price markets which will allow Cabot to not only accelerate production and cash flow growth but also significantly improve corporate-wide margins and returns.
In summary we continue to focus on improving efficiencies reducing cost and increasing our margins with an emphasis on maximizing the long-term value of this top-tier portfolio we have.
In the near term we remain optimistic about Constitution construction beginning in the fall and remain confident in the second half of 2016 in-service date.
Additionally we are pleased with the progress being made on the Atlantic Sunrise pipeline which is another important step in our strategy to monetize our low-cost Marcellus assets at premium prices.
Lastly we will continue to be disciplined through this low commodity price environment with an emphasis on managing the balance sheet and protecting returns and margins.
Kate with those brief comments I'll be happy to answer any questions.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
The first question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning Dan.
Good morning everybody.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning Doug.
I've got a couple if I may Dan.
First of all thanks for the clarification on Constitution but I guess it's a tough question to answer but when Atlantic Sunrise and Constitution and so on are where you expect to them to be let's say a year or so from now what do you think the steady state differential for Cabot is going to look like? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The commissioning or two years after the commissioning it's not...
No – well – yeah well what I really mean is when all is said and done if you want to think about the long-term sustainable basic discount if you like or transport discount what – I know it's a tough question to answer but just order of magnitude compared to the kind of dollar you're getting to in Q3 I mean where does it get to in your mind when you don't have the bottlenecks that you have in place today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
It is a good question.
Again it's one that we have made a specific effort to clarify.
In fact we have commissioned a third party recently and engaged them had them evaluate the entire space out there looking at every aspect of the market on the supply side the demand side looking at the North America market as a whole the macro market as a whole.
And then narrowing down to Cabot specific and the parts of that dynamic supply-demand dynamic that would affect Cabot.
We have reviewed that study and we have incorporated the findings – excuse me of that study in our first effort towards our five-year plan.
And we are building and fleshing out that five-year plan to present at our board meeting in October.
The early look of this third-party assessment and analysis of the dynamics in the market and where Cabot's realizations would be as we work through this five-year plan is that at – towards the end of that five-year plan and as you commission some of the infrastructure and you look at some of the demand dynamics that were specific in the study we get to a very low differential to a positive differential to NYMEX.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
I appreciate the full answer.
My follow-up just also a little quicker Dan.
Hedging for 2016 I don't think there's anything in place right now.
Just thoughts on that and I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Hedging is going to be just subject to what the market will yield.
Right now in looking at the strip we don't see anything in the strip that would have us place any incremental hedges on at this point in time.
But as an ongoing part of our business we continue to be interested in placing hedges.
And historically we've always liked to be between 25% to 75% hedged depending on what the market would give us.
So it is going to be and will continue to be part of our program.
We just don't see that opportunity today.
Okay.
Thanks again.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Doug.
The next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth of BMO.
Please go ahead.
Yeah good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Phillip.
Last quarter you had discussed the possibility of Constitution displacing volumes from some of the weaker price indexes but also achieving 50% returns at a $2 realized gas price.
So would we be right to assume that the threshold for displacing volumes is below $2 an Mcf? Or could you take a view that it's NPV accretive play it for higher prices? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we're going to evaluate the market upon the commissioning of Constitution and how I've had to answer the question with uncertainty in what the market is going to be at that snapshot in time on the commissioning.
What we've said is that we're going to have a program that would allow flexibility in displacing or adding incrementally to our growth profile in placing the 0.5 Bcf a day into Constitution.
Or in fact if the market is challenged at that point in time we've talked about just displacing taking volumes off the pipes that we're selling into today and moving that 0.5 Bcf into the Constitution Pipeline.
So that decision in how we fill the line and flow into Constitution will be made based on market parameters.
We have not discussed and I'm not prepared to discuss whether it's at a $2 benchmark or not on how we would handle our commissioning of Constitution.
Okay great.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> But certainly our objective is to – and I'm extremely confident that the commissioning of Constitution is going to enhance our overall price realizations.
Great.
And I appreciate the update on Constitution.
I was also hoping that you could discuss some of the key milestones to watch for for Atlantic Sunrise over the next 12 months to 18 months.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Phillip.
I'm going to let Jeff Hutton who's our VP of Marketing to discuss where that project is.
Good question because it's a great project for us.
Yeah Phillip.
So far so good on the Atlantic Sunrise front.
I think there's been a lot of progress that came right out of the box.
There is – as you know we've already filed the application for the project.
There's already been quite a bit of boots on the ground in terms of community outreach and run past all of the open houses for example.
At this point we continue to purchase right of way and options on right of way.
I think if I recall the survey permission level is above the 80% number at this point which is – if you kind of go back to when we started pre-filing that's quite a lot of – accomplished in a short period of time.
So things look good in – for Atlantic Sunrise particularly as you know the project is 100% in the State of Pennsylvania.
And there's quite a bit of effort from a manpower resource perspective on Atlantic Sunrise and we feel good about it right now.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Phillip.
Our next question comes from David Deckelbaum of KeyBanc.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Dan and everyone else.
Thanks for taking my questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You bet David.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm just hoping to get a reconfirmation on the Leidy Southeast Expansion is that still expected to be in service by the end of the year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Jeff? Yes.
That's a December 1 in-service date.
And we understand that the Greenfield portion of that the new pipe looping has been completed and now it's some adjustments to compressor stations and I think away we go.
Inc.</span></strong> We should see I guess a benefit from the firm sales that you'll have going on once that expansion is complete in terms of basis.
Yes.
That's correct.
The – two things.
The capacity that's been created on Leidy Southeast the 525 000 a day is – was a market poll project so you'll have a new area to market the Leidy Line production or receive gas into about 0.5 Bcf a day we think that's going to benefit Leidy Line pricing as a whole.
In addition to that Cabot has some long-term sales that will kick in December 1 when the project starts.
And the sales are more related to the market area than the supply area so they will benefit our realizations.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful color Jeff.
Thank you.
And Dan if I might ask about Wood County.
Is there any update on your thoughts around there in Utica activity? I know you said on past calls that you're kind of evaluating the area out there one way or the other.
Can you give us any color on what you're looking out there now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well with our effort being exploratory in nature we're usually cautious when it comes to discussing exploration efforts.
And our position in West Virginia as you head around Wood County and as you head south we have a fairly significant acreage position throughout West Virginia.
We have almost 1 million acres in West Virginia.
So we do have an ongoing exploration effort looking at the deeper section.
We have drilled a deeper test south of Wood County and we are flowing that well just to get a test.
It's a vertical well.
Just to look at a section.
We also have some additional section to look at in addition to what we're flowing back right now.
And we have another area that we are – there are a couple of areas that we're continuing to look at that we think has exploratory opportunity anyway.
We don't have anything we could add as far as color David that would say here's our next development program at this stage.
But we do have acreage that's HBP in these areas we do have B minerals in the areas that we're looking and we have enough reason to believe that it merits further capital at some point in time.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
So it might merit your own capital or someone else's capital? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we're going to spend our own capital at this stage.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the color Dan.
I'll get back in queue.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah thanks David.
The next question comes from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning Dan and to the rest of your team there.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Charles.
I wanted if I could to ask you a bit about what kind of circumstances or what are the pieces you're foreseeing to bring some of these volumes that you voluntarily curtailed up back on.
I think Jeff already talked about that Leidy Southeast Expansion coming on December 1 and your firm sales there so that will be a piece of the step-up in volumes for Q4.
But to the extent you're willing to share can you talk about at the margin what kind of local pricing you would need to see on that Leidy Line to open up some of the chokes and reduce your gathering pressure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Charles we're not going to get in price specific.
And I'll flip it over to Jeff to talk about the dynamics of the market.
What we would hope to see though that would influence us to open up some of the wells more so than they are today would be just the seasonal dynamics that we anticipate rolling into the winter period.
We also have a couple of things that Jeff had mentioned and he can flesh those out.
But as far as being price specific we're not just going to get price specific at this stage on what we might do on bringing additional volumes on.
But Jeff would you – yeah.
Sure.
Yeah I think the market dynamics of worst-case have bottomed out and we're seeing some optimism in the marketplace not to the point where gas is going to come back on but we're certainly gearing up for a better fourth quarter.
And for the winter we have some utility sales that kick in in the winter that aren't around in the summer for feeding load.
And we mentioned Leidy Southeast.
We have another project that we're involved in the Columbia East Side Expansion which adds well over 50 000 (30:46) a day shipper on that project.
So in terms of the three pipes we're currently producing on Millennium Tennessee and Transco we've seen some other volumes curtail up there and we've seen some decline.
So we're optimistic that we'll see better days ahead in the fourth quarter and first quarter of 2016.
Got it.
Thanks for the detail Jeff.
And Dan certainly understood that you don't want to talk individual or specific price.
But if I could go back Dan to one of your prepared comments on the CapEx picture and that's definitely helpful the detail on the CapEx incurred versus your cash flow CapEx.
But just taking your $540 million for the first half 2015 CapEx incurred you're still looking like a pretty significant drop for a run rate for the back half of the year.
And I'm wondering if you could maybe offer some commentary you're keeping four rigs running but you have that CapEx dropping.
Is that a function of deferring more completions on that? I know you gave us your drill to complete count at year end but how does that look from your perspective? How are you going to get to that reduced CapEx run rate? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah that's exactly what it is Charles.
We have guided that we would have the 20 wells or so in the Eagle Ford and we've also guided that we would have 45 wells in the Marcellus and that's anywhere from probably 1 200 to I don't know 1 400 or so stages that we have at the end of the year.
And it is our plan to sometime between now and the end of the year for example in the Eagle Ford we would plan to cycle out the frac crew that we have right now and then bring that frac crew back in towards the latter part of the year in the Eagle Ford.
And we would anticipate sliding some of the frac stages that we have in the Marcellus to the beginning of 2016 also.
So you're exactly right on the management of our capital discipline is going to be through completions for the most part.
Got it.
That's helpful Dan.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> All right.
Thank you.
The next question comes from Subash Chandra of Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Good morning Dan.
I was hoping you could break down that five-year study with a potential impact of Constitution only.
And then I guess you talked to the Constitution plus the Atlantic Sunrise but is it possible to talk about what that study is saying about the Constitution impact on differentials? And I guess the second part of that question is did that differential outlook include what are presumably higher transport expenses which are a different line item or was it all-inclusive? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well to answer the last part of that first the study was an extensive study.
It utilized all the available data out there certainly integrated all of the positions that were out there that you can see and the different crags (34:50) and different positions and different guidances and expectations out there.
So it was a fully encompassing study.
In regard to the Constitution diffs I mean you can look at Constitution today and look at what the prices of that index is on Iriquois and you can look at today and look at the difference compared to what we're receiving right now on those three pipes.
So there is a significant uptick that we anticipate being able to capture with that 0.5 Bcf moving into Constitution.
In regard to the transportation we certainly take all of that in consideration when we look at what our realizations are.
So with a roll-forward in the five-year model and looking at then Atlantic Sunrise we have 850 million a day in the Atlantic Sunrise.
We have all of those volumes already sold and we have 300 million of that – 350 million of that sold to Cove Point Sumitomo in Cove Point under a contract and we have the remaining portions of that allocated already also.
Those price points are going to be outside of the price points we're currently exposed to.
So rolling forward again putting together in the middle of our five-year plan as you might suspect because we're just now getting a lot of this data in and digesting a lot of this data and building our operations model around the expectations and macro market but rolling forward and looking at the price points we're going to be able to achieve and the volumes we can move to those price points we think that our price realizations will be above the NYMEX towards the end of this five-year period.
That was great.
Thanks.
And to follow up just real quick.
Can you just comment on the number of completions in the second quarter Marcellus and Eagle Ford? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well on the Eagle Ford in the third quarter – I'm not going to go with the rest of the year.
But in the third quarter I think we have about five wells we're going to complete.
And I don't have that number in the Marcellus.
But it's going to be a similar number that we had in the second quarter.
And I want to say that's probably going to be 18 20 type wells.
All right.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
The next question comes from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Co.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hello Pearce.
Dan as you peer into 2016 do you think that you can keep CapEx flat year-over-year and grow production? I think in the past you mentioned that maintenance CapEx was around $600 million $700 million.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We – yeah.
We think we can grow production at the same capital exposure.
We think we can also – the volumes that we're capable of producing today which is over 2 Bcf we think we could quite frankly reduce the capital we have in the – we're spending in the Marcellus this year and maintain a flat production profile for slightly better than 2 Bcf a day.
Great.
Thank you for that.
Then my follow-up can you remind me of the stream-crossing window and tree-cutting windows for the construction process for Constitution.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Jeff why don't you...
Yes.
Pearce the stream crossings are June 1 through September.
And the tree clearing is October 1 through March.
And so Jeff if you were able to get the permits from the New York DEC relatively soon I know you said second half 2016 – I don't know if you want to get this granular but when you take all that in to account do you think it's a more kind of a late 3Q or 4Q of 2016? Yeah.
At this point we're sticking with the second half of 2015.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Pearce what I think is going to happen is that hopefully we'll get the approval from the DEC.
Again we know that we have continued to be as transparent as the information is available to us but we would hope to get the DEC approval.
What we would also expect is that some of the stream crossings we think we can complete in – prior to the September closure period for open cuts and streams.
But I don't know and I don't think that we could get all of those stream crossings done prior to September.
Some of it depends on weather and certainly some of it is based on the timing the DEC gets out there.
We did change our capital allocation number a little bit from – reduced it from 70 to 38 I think as – with our assumption that how much we're going to be able to do on those stream- crossings in 2015 versus 2016.
But coming out of the 2016 – into 2016 the beginning of the summer of 2016 depending on how many stream crossings we have remaining if we have some remaining we anticipate to start immediately on those complete those and then the project would then – could be commissioned following that.
Keep in mind during this period of time it's the stream crossings that have these sideboards on them.
The rest of the pipeline we can keep continuing the tie-in and do all of those things that we have to do.
It's just those stream crossings and tying in those pinch points on the streams that we're juggling in the schedule.
So sometime – if we have stream crossing sometime after the June period depending on how many and when we hook those up will dictate when we can commission the pipeline.
Thank you Dan.
Very helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you Pearce.
The next question comes from Phillips Johnston of Capital One.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks.
I just wanted to clarify the quarterly cadence of the Eagle Ford completions this year.
I think the plan was to complete 40 to 45 wells.
And I think you completed 20 in the first quarter.
I think you said you expect five wells in the third quarter.
What was the second quarter number again? I think I missed that one.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Steve Lindeman is in here also.
See we completed in the second quarter about 350 stages and so we had about 13 wells in the second quarter.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then if we look at liquid volumes I guess you were flat for the quarter sequentially.
Looking at the guidance it sort of implies mid- to high-single digit sequential declines in both Q3 and Q4 with that one rig program.
I'm wondering what you guys estimate is your natural PDP decline rate in the Eagle Ford if no activity is assumed.
Well that's a good question.
I would say that the blended rate would probably be in the 15% range in terms of decline.
We'll look at that more carefully at yearend.
But that's what I would I guess right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just one more if I could.
Last quarter you guys noted that 10 wells that were drilled on the new acreage in Eagle Ford were sort of tracking 50% above your type curve.
Can you give us an update on how those wells are holding up now relative to the curve? And of the 13 completions you had in the second quarter can you tell us how many of those were on the new acreage? Yeah.
I would say a significant number of the 13 were on the new acreage.
The ones that we've got I would say 60 to 90 days' worth of history we're very very confident in how they're producing and they look like we indicated right in with their expectations.
And obviously the new wells we're still monitoring how they're coming online.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Phillip one thing that I would add is that in looking at the production profile and our deliveries one of the things that you have to take in consideration and it is a variable is it's dependent upon what pad site we are fracking when we – how many days we stay on that pad site and how much production and the type of wells that we shut in offsetting that pad site during the cycle does affect your production volumes for that brief quarterly calculation.
So you have to take that in consideration also.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you Dan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question comes from Drew Venker of Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Drew.
I was hoping you could – Dan if you could expand a little bit more on the Utica acreage you mentioned – or West Virginia I'm sorry.
Could you talk about how much is prospective for Utica or if you have a sense for that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Being exploratory and looking at what we're doing everybody is aware there is – the deep Rome Trough runs through the middle of West Virginia.
We have a significant amount of acreage on this Rome Trough.
It is a deep section predominantly unexplored and very few penetrations into that deep section.
So we have not just the Utica section but other sections that we would look at in West Virginia.
I might also add that certainly our Utica opportunities as we move to the east in Pennsylvania and under our Susquehanna properties we think we have Utica in that particular area of our portfolio also.
So in summary we're looking at not only what Utica potential there would be but other section that might be an opportunity in the Rome trough in West Virginia.
But we're also looking at different section and will look at different section at some point in time in our Susquehanna acreage.
And is that something that – the Rome trough would that get a fair amount of capital in 2016? Or is it still be determined? I mean is there plans to test that near term I guess really is the question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
2016 and looking at what percentage of our capital will be allocated to exploratory is still in the works.
We are – we do a bottoms-up build we look at our program we look at the landing area that we would want to achieve on our production.
And certainly that is in concert and it will continue to be in concert with the macro-infrastructure aspects.
And then we would – then as not an afterthought but as not as high a priority look at the cash flow and our available cash to allocate on exploration programs and we dovetail into that any lost opportunities we would have if we didn't allocate capital both on our development areas and our exploratory efforts.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up on that in Susquehanna for the Utica if you can compare for us the Utica rock in that area versus the Marcellus of a similar thickness and rock quality? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I can't yet we haven't drilled it.
But I would say from our deeper mapping and carrying some of the Utica drilling that's been done in Tioga and looking at that section that section there is a couple of hundred feet thick.
And certainly we are modeling an eastern extension of that Utica.
And we think we have some equivalent thicknesses and we think we have similar maturities and TOCs as seen in the Tioga area.
Thanks Dan.
That's very helpful.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Drew.
The next question is from Eric Otto of CLSA Americas.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Could you give us just an update on the Corps of Engineers Section 404 permit status? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes Eric.
I'll let Jeff go over that.
Yeah so when the State of Pennsylvania issued their 401 permit and what we're waiting on with New York on their 401 permit that essentially is what enables the U.S.
Corps of Engineers to issue their 404 permit.
So it's the data coming out of the New York 401 permit that is missing.
And our understanding is it's a supplemental addition for the U.S.
Corps to add to their 404 permit and that permit generally comes out just a few weeks after all the information is received.
Okay thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Eric.
The next question is from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Brian.
With the sharp move down in valuations in the forward curve what are your latest thoughts on willingness to add to positions? And would you consider adding in Appalachia or be more focused on oilier assets if at all? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's a good question.
We have continued to run our operation with the primary focus of maximizing returns as I've said and the efficiencies trying to protect the margins or improve our margins.
We think in this environment that a good strong balance sheet and one that affords the greatest flexibility not only allows you to conduct your operations prudently and allows you to manage from a position of strength but if there is an opportunity that presents itself then we're certainly in a great physical and financial position to take advantage of it.
As far as looking at the two commodities looking at oil gas we're really returns-focused and we feel like that is going to remain our focus.
You can get into the discussion about how you would want to look at a more diverse program add a little bit more oil to our program obviously diversify us a little bit.
But I've been in the business a long time Brian and looked at these different cycles that we've gone through.
And our view of our crystal ball rolling forward for our position in the natural gas space and what we think we can do with improved infrastructure we think we're going to be able to deliver extremely strong returns with our natural gas position.
And we think it is going to be with our crystal ball look at the liquid side of the business that natural gas liquids are going to be challenged for an extended period of time.
And we think that on the oil side it's such a dynamic market with the international influence that affects the oil market that crystal ball is not in my opinion I'm not as confident as what the oil price is going to do as I am what I see available to us on the natural gas side.
So with that being said we're focused in natural gas we'll remain focused in natural gas.
If we have the opportunity to improve our liquids position it's going to have to compete with what our view is long term in natural gas.
That's very helpful.
And then secondly you may have mentioned this before in which case apologies.
But are you still planning to have the wells needed to source your 500 Mcf a day Constitution commitment drilled but not completed by yearend? And how are you thinking about the merits of completing those wells in 2016 versus keeping them in inventory? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well our position on Constitution still remains to have the flexibility to add incrementally to our growth position but also a decision that we could just displace our level of production at the time of the Constitution commissioning and transfer those volumes to Constitution.
So it is our intent to manage our completion schedule in light of what we see as the commissioning date of Constitution.
And the macro market is going to dictate a little bit how we respond.
To our filling of Constitution that will absolutely happen regardless of what the macro market is doing but the macro market would influence is it going to be incremental or is it going to be just a displacement initially.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I'm sorry I can't be any more specific than that.
We are going to look at the market at that time and make the call.
I'm sure we'll ask again next quarter.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's all right Brian.
And the next question comes from David Beard of Coker Palmer.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning gentlemen.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning David.
Inc.</span></strong> A lot of detailed questions have been answered so I wanted to hear your thoughts big picture really back to the very first question of this call relative to differentials.
It seems people in the industry you and others in the Marcellus are fairly optimistic two three four years out on differentials narrowing down pretty substantially while there's – it seems like many financial players are saying the differential is going to stay at $1 or more relative to transportation costs.
I'd just like to hear your thoughts about why there is such a I guess a variant view relative to what takeaway capacity can ultimately do to differentials? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah David.
I think the market is going to be – is going to continue to be diverse.
I don't think differentials are going to be equal across all spaces.
I think differentials will be – continue to be subject to – even in the longer term will continue to be subject to gas-on-gas competition.
In our specific instance what we see is getting to price points and to areas in the market that we feel like will have the demand side of the equation matching the supply side and the ability for just that amount of gas to get to different price points.
Constitution as an example we're going to be able to move gas not only south from Wright Station but we're also going to be able to move gas north into Canada from that position.
We also would hope to be able to move gas to a different price point when the Atlantic Sunrise comes on.
Cove Point is a unique project for us and the differentials that are attached to that project are basically part of a contractual – a confidential contractual arrangement.
So we feel confident about what our realizations are going to be on that marketing of that volume of gas.
We also have a price point set at the 500 million the remaining 500 million of the Atlantic Sunrise volume.
So in looking out where we are we just feel in looking at point-specific areas that the narrowing of the differential seems to – and tying it to the demand situations in those areas and at that particular – those particular price points we just feel confident that the volume of gas that can get to those price points is going to measure up to the demand that we see.
In other areas to your point David on some of the modeling out there has – still has differentials of $0.50 a dollar.
There might be areas that have those type of differentials and those are going to be areas that have ongoing bottlenecks where gas-on-gas competition is not going to be able to get the volumes of gas out that are on the supply side to reach the demand areas and there could be those specific areas that have those type of differentials.
What our – and kind of to your to point David that was part of the reason why we commissioned a unique independent study for Cabot's behalf to answer some of those questions on the market dynamics from a macro sense and also a micro sense on its effect on Cabot and where we're moving our gas.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Good.
I appreciate the color and thank you for the time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you David.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Dinges for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Kate.
And thanks for all the questions.
The focus remains on the macro market as it probably should at this period of time.
I think everybody is clear that our operation will deliver the volumes into the market.
But certainly I've been in this business over 30 years.
I've seen a lot of cycles.
And this is one of those draconian down markets.
But I do reflect back on what we have available in our program what our market will be able to – what our properties will be able to yield and what our program will yield.
And I'm very confident if we get these pipes out and we get to the markets that are available to us at the end of the pipes that we already have in progress that Cabot's outlook for the future and when you look at this five-year plan Cabot is going to be a company that's going to deliver significant growth.
It's going to deliver that significant growth with the realizations I think we'll see with a free cash flow program.
And we are going to be able to generate a significant level of free cash.
So with that I appreciate everybody's patience.
I understand the frustrations with this type of market but I can assure you that there are better days ahead.
So thank you again and we look forward to a visit in our third quarter conference call.
Thank you.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Corporation's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast.
All participants will be in listen-only mode.
After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions.
Please note this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Carrie and good morning to all.
I appreciate you joining us on this third quarter earnings call.
I do have the management team gathered with me.
And also as usual the forward-looking statements included in this morning's release do apply to my comments today.
We would like to touch upon a couple of financial and operating highlights from the third quarter that were outlined in the release this morning.
First the equivalent net production for the third quarter was 1.544 Bcf billion cubic foot equivalent per day an increase of 7% as compared to the third quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date our production volumes have increased 19% relative to the first nine months of 2014.
Operating cash flow discretionary cash flow and EBITDAX were $146 million $150 million and $168 million respectively.
All of these financial metrics were lower relative to the third quarter of 2014 primarily as a result of a 34% decline in realized natural gas prices and a 54% decline in realized oil prices which also resulted in a slight loss for the quarter.
Operationally I'll move to the Marcellus first.
Similar to our discussion in the second quarter we continue to curtail production in the Marcellus during the third quarter due to the weak pricing throughout Appalachia.
There are two takeaway projects coming online during the fourth quarter that will be beneficial to Cabot one of which comes online in November and one that will be in service beginning in December.
Our new capacity and long term sales on these projects will allow Cabot to accelerate production sequentially in the fourth quarter at better price realizations than we are expecting in the local market today.
We're cautiously optimistic for an improvement in price realizations in 2016 due to the impact of new takeaway capacity coming online over the next few quarters on the demand side and the impact of significant reduction in industry activity on the supply side.
Currently there are only nine rigs operating in Northeast Pennsylvania compared to 25 rigs this time last year that's a 64% decline.
On the completion front there are less than a handful of frac crews working at any point in time and those crews have moved primarily to daylight operations which certainly translates into less frac stages being completed per crew.
While our price realizations continue to be challenged as we await new infrastructure our operations continued to exceed expectations with a focus on continuously improving our capital efficiency.
On the drilling side our team continues to set new records.
In the Marcellus our average spud-to-spud cycle time during the third quarter was 14 days as compared to 18 days in the third quarter of 2014.
That's a 22% improvement despite our average total measured depth increasing by almost 10%.
This has resulted in roughly a 25% decrease in drilling cost per lateral foot.
Most of these savings are sticky which means that they're not tied to the current cyclical reduction in service cost.
We have two rig contracts in the Marcellus expiring at year-end.
And we anticipate a significant reduction in day rates going forward further reducing our drilling cost as we move into 2016.
On the completion side we have continued to see downward pressure on pumping costs in our operations.
While we are not currently forecasting another meaningful downward step change in frac cost in 2016 I do believe we will see further declines across various service lines given the current and the anticipated activity levels across Appalachia next year.
We're currently operating three rigs in the Marcellus.
However we will drop to two rigs by the end of this year with the intention of accelerating our activity levels in the third quarter of 2016 in anticipation of the in-service of Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise pipelines.
More on those pipelines later.
In the Eagle Ford we experienced an 8% sequential decline in liquid volumes which reflects the impact of our natural declines as we have reduced the amount of activity in the play due to lower oil prices.
To provide context during the quarter we completed only seven wells in the Eagle Ford and only placed six wells on production.
Our activity – the current activity levels are driven by obligatory lease and operational commitments.
We also anticipate a further reduction in activity in the fourth quarter which will result in a slight sequential decline in liquid volumes for the third to fourth quarter.
On the positive side operationally we have continued to see improvements especially in our drilling operation.
This quarter we experienced another 15% to 20% reduction in drilling cost per lateral foot as compared to the second quarter which were driven primarily by improving the operational efficiencies.
Currently we're drilling our Eagle Ford wells at 30% to 40% faster than our 2014 average.
Quite an impressive job by the team.
We are currently operating one rig in the Eagle Ford and we plan to drop that rig by the end of the second quarter of 2016 when the contract expires unless we see a significant uplift in oil prices during the first half of this next year.
Based on this level of activity in 2016 we should be able to maintain all of our leasehold while averaging full-year liquids production volumes that are flat to our fourth quarter liquid volumes this year.
On Constitution update since Constitution's status is likely on everybody's mind I would like to provide that update as we highlight some of the significant benefits of this project that I personally believe do not get enough attention and are not fully understood.
On the second quarter call you might recall in July we outlined the progress Constitution Pipeline had achieved to-date including the filing of the FERC implementation plan finalizing the reroute variance and finalizing all the outstanding issues with the New York DEC.
We also reported that we were optimistic to begin construction in the fall and we're still planning on an in-service date in the second half to meet the heating season demand for New York and New England next winter.
To be blunt and to the point we have not received the 401 water quality permit from New York which is necessary for the mainline construction of the pipeline.
There remains a few other outstanding approvals as well but these issue should fall into place very quickly once New York issues the 401 certificate.
Given the continued delay in the issuance of this permit from New York I do want to take this opportunity to highlight a number of very important and significant benefits that the Constitution Pipeline will provide both during construction and after in-service.
First and foremost job creation and retention.
Construction of the project is estimated to directly and indirectly create 2 400 jobs and generate about $130 million in labor income to the region.
These jobs are high-paying and will utilize the excellent skills of the local unionized labor force.
In fact Constitution in conjunction with Leatherstocking Gas Company will directly provide natural gas to one of the largest employers in the area the Amphenol Aerospace plant in Sidney New York which employs more than 1 000 unionized employees.
In 2011 the state administration committed to Amphenol that the plant would have access to natural gas and company leaders are on record as stating that access to Constitution Pipeline is a key reason why the plant has chosen to remain in Sidney New York.
Amphenol was awarded a $750 000 grant by the Delaware County Industrial Development Agency in New York for the construction of a natural gas pipeline from Constitution to their facility.
On tax revenues another significant benefit on the project once operational Constitution economic impact is anticipated to result in more than $13 million in annual tax property revenue.
This project is privately financed with no government subsidies tax breaks or incentives.
Project will pay millions in annual property tax payments to localities and school districts.
Approximately 60% of taxes paid by this project will directly benefit local school districts along the pipeline route.
Third Constitution Pipeline will link New York State with lower cost energy.
New York is the fourth largest natural gas consuming state in our country and their consumers currently experienced some of the highest rates for natural gas in the United States.
Once complete the pipeline will provide consumers reliable supplies of low-cost energy addressing one of the key challenges of State New York faces in remaining competitive with other manufacturing regions.
The pipeline will transport enough gas – natural gas each day to serve about 3 million homes many of which will be located in New York.
Plans are already under way to provide new natural gas services in parts of Broome Chenango and Delaware Counties which have never before enjoy natural gas access.
Further delays in issuing the final permit risks the project's 2016 in-service date which means that New York energy consumers will have to wait another full year to receive the relief from the extraordinarily high energy prices experienced during the winter/heating season.
Lastly this pipeline is consistent with the New York State Energy Plan.
Due to ongoing issues with the Indian Point nuclear facility New York needs an alternative fuel source for power generation in the Long Island area.
Constitution will connect to Iroquois gas pipeline which currently serves natural gas electric generation plants in the same area as Indian Point.
Constitution brings additional capacity for new or expanded gas use for power generation in the state.
In fact Constitution Pipeline was specifically highlighted in the New York State Energy Plan as critical gas transmission infrastructure needed to meet New York's expanding energy needs.
The state currently utilizes natural gas for over 36% of its electric generation and the New York State Energy Plan calls for a 32% increase in natural gas usage which can help reduce emissions as the state transitions away from the usage of coal and heating oil to cleaner fuels like natural gas.
I think you can see how New York State will benefit greatly from Constitution Pipeline.
The projects is supported by legislators local officials unions business trade groups both in New York and throughout New England as well as several New England governors.
We look forward to beginning construction of this project as soon as possible.
Assuming that Constitution team can begin construction activities in the next few months we are optimistic that the project can be placed in service during the fourth quarter of 2016 in order to help meet the growing natural gas demands in New York.
In the morning's press release we provided an update of our 2015 guidance as well as initiated preliminary guidance for 2016.
Based on our anticipated production levels for the fourth quarter we have adjusted our full-year 2015 production guidance to a range of 12% to 14%.
This adjustment reflects our price outlook for the fourth quarter and our corresponding decision to continue curtailments on a portion of our production for the remainder of the year.
While fourth quarter volumes are expected to increase 5% sequentially at the midpoint relative to the third quarter this does imply a slight year-over-year decline of the fourth quarter driven by our strategy to curtail volumes in light of the current price environment.
We have also reduced our 2015 capital program to $850 million.
The reduced capital program is the result of a reduction in our planned level of activity in the fourth quarter as well as the impact of further cost reductions from improving efficiencies and lower service costs.
In addition we anticipate approximately $35 million of commitments this year associated with the equity ownership in Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise pipelines.
Our preliminary 2016 budget was built from the bottom up with focus on spending within cash flow at recent strip prices while still providing measured growth in 2016 and still investing the appropriate amount of growth capital for 2017 that allows us to accelerate our production growth into better price points upon in-service of Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise.
Our focus on maximizing efficiencies throughout the program results in a plan that provides economic wellhead returns even at our conservative low price assumptions and results in a continued reduction in our unit cost.
I will emphasize however that this is a preliminary budget based on our current expectations over the next year and we certainly reserve the right to call an audible on this plan as we monitor the commodity price environment and the approval process of the key takeaway projects we are participating in.
We have initiated our preliminary 2016 production growth guidance in the range at 2% to 10%.
Low end to midpoint assumes that the headwinds on price realizations we're experiencing today persists throughout 2016.
And we continue to curtail a modest portion of our production while the high end assumes an improvement in price realizations and reflects an uncurtailed production profile without spending any additional capital.
This production growth range is based on E&amp;P capital budget of $615 million.
Additionally we have approximately $150 million of equity investment in Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise planned for next year.
Depending on the timing of construction of both these projects that number could change throughout the year but currently assumes a fourth quarter 2016 in-service date for our Constitution and a third quarter 2017 in-service date for Atlantic Sunrise.
Drilling completion and facility capital will account for approximately 93% of the capital budget with approximately 74% allocated to the Marcellus Shale and 26% allocated to the Eagle Ford Shale.
In total we plan to drill approximately 60 net wells in 2016 and complete approximately 90 net wells.
This level of activity will allow us to meet all of our obligatory drilling and operating commitments maintain operating efficiencies throughout the program and sets us up for acceleration of growth into 2017.
While we'd be able to hold our Marcellus production volumes flat this next year by only spending approximately $175 million in drilling completion capital and we have allocated capital in next year's program that will provide for expanded growth in 2017 assuming Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise remain on the schedule we've outlined all while generating free cash flow under our conservative price assumptions.
As we continue to focus on improving capital efficiencies our average planned lateral length in our 2016 program are approximately 25% longer than the 2015 program at 6 700 feet in the Marcellus and 9 500 feet in the Eagle Ford.
The average drilling and completion cost for Cabot's 2016 program of longer laterals and more stages per well as compared to 2015 are $6.6 million and $6.3 million for the Marcellus and Eagle Ford respectively.
This represents a drilling and completion cost decrease of over 15% on a per-lateral-foot basis relative to our 2015 budgeted cost.
Based on our budgeted price assumptions 2016 program generates free cash flow before taking in consideration our pipeline commitments.
This assumes a slight improvement year-over-year in the local basis differentials; however we will be closely monitoring the impact of the following items on local pricing over the next quarters; new takeaway capacity in Appalachia a supply side rationalization from reduced activity levels and the winter demand.
The good news is that we have plenty of flexibility in our plan to adopt our program throughout the year as the market warrants.
While 2016 will be a challenged year our ability to generate free cash flow from our drilling program at these low commodity prices while also providing production growth and investing a significant amount of growth capital for 2017 speaks to the quality of our assets our highly efficient operating plan and our historically low-cost structure.
With that Carrie I'll be more than happy to answer any questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question and answer session.
At this time we will pause momentarily to assemble our roster.
Our first question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Dan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Doug.
So I wonder if you could help us with the shut-in volumes and how we should think about how you're prioritizing the next moves with your slowdown in activity.
What I mean is do you – does the volume come back before you add more rigs? And if you could quantify for me and I've got a follow-up please.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay Doug.
We have curtailed volumes right now.
We have volumes that were not moving that do not require any additional capital to move those incremental volumes.
And keep in mind that in regard to curtailed volumes we might get the question in regard to how much you shut-in and what ability you have to be able to move incremental volumes.
But we have adjusted our capital program as we've gone through 2015 to take in consideration curtailments.
And so that tweaking of our capital allocation has certainly delayed some of our originally scheduled and budgeted frac stage completions.
And we've also amended our directives to the frac crew to initiate only during daylight hours.
So we're sliding out some of that activity.
So as we roll through the year and the amount of activity we're conducting right now and the various swings that we have through our marketing group on a month-to-month on what we're moving that curtailed volume is a variable number if you will.
Okay.
I'll maybe follow up offline.
My follow-up Dan is really more I guess on the assumptions for the spending next year.
Are you looking to spend within cash flow including the pipeline affiliate CapEx? And if so can you give us some idea – I know it's a really tough question to answer but what are your thoughts on the differential in your plan for 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well the capital allocation the $615 million is to the drilling completion program where 93% of that is directed to that.
The additional $150 million is allocated to the Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise.
And that's making the assumption if some of those expenditures fall in line as we have currently predicted which would have an in-service date of Constitution of the end of 2016 and the September in-service date of Atlantic Sunrise.
And the total expenditure if the $150 million of equity investments and pipeline is made there will be a slight overspend of cash flow at these conservative prices that we've used.
And as far as the differential is concerned we have forecast a slight compression of the differentials into 2016 and the assumption we're making there is that some of these takeaway items that we've referenced in November of this year and in December of this year along with the expectation of Constitution coming online we think on a weighted average basis that our differentials would compact a little bit.
I'll leave it there.
Thanks Dan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Phillip Jungwirth of BMO.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
When you referenced accelerating Marcellus activity in the third quarter in anticipation of Constitution coming online does this imply that you'll increase the rig count from the two rigs or would you primarily be looking to increase completions? And is three rigs still a good estimate of maintenance activity or what needs to hold 2 Bcf a day of gross production flat? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Phillip on both those questions you're accurate we would be around the three rig count in the Marcellus.
And we feel like we'll be able to maintain our production flat with the capital program that we've outlined if that's what we choose to do.
Okay.
And then most of your or many of the Appalachian producers are hedged in 2016 and in some cases well beyond that.
Could you update us on your latest thoughts around hedging in 2015 or 2017 both your NYMEX and local pricing exposure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We're unhedged in 2016 and 2017.
And I think the industry as a whole is probably less than 20% hedged in 2016 and certainly lower percentage hedged in 2017.
Our desire would be to hedge volumes and protect some of the space.
It's been a difficult market to hedge.
If you look at it it has not been a real liquid market.
And the discount that we've been able to realize when we've gotten quotes has not been attractive but enough for us to place the hedges.
And then of the $150 million in JV contributions planned for 2016 could you break that out by Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise? And then would this be all of the required CapEx for Constitution or would you still have some spending that could fill in to 2017? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So we have $100 million allocated to Constitution and $50 million allocated to Atlantic Sunrise for 2016.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Bob Morris of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thanks.
Dan I think in the past you've indicated that essentially the drop dead date for beginning construction on Constitution in order to get it completed in on line or in-service next year is early January and that assumes everything went smoothly.
Is that still the case? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah Bob.
The window is certainly still open for us.
We do need the New York approval.
And your timing is accurate on being able to commence construction sometime in the mid or latter part of January to be able to move forward and meet our commissioning on the fourth quarter of 2016.
That's correct.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And then my second question is once you drop the rig in the Eagle Ford what is the oil price you need in order to put a rig back to work there and pick activity back up in Eagle Ford? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's not a specific number we're looking at Bob.
It's going to be a function of several things.
One how efficient we've been able to execute the program based on the assumptions that we've made.
And also certainly looking at the dynamics of the – macro dynamics of the natural gas market and looking at what commodity price differentials we've been able to realize throughout the first part of 2016.
Those things will play into our decision about the allocation of additional capital obviously along with the cost of a barrel and what frankly what service cost do in fact if you do see a increase in the value per barrel.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And on the service cost you don't expect any reduction in completion cost next year in the Marcellus why is that? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We do expect a little bit of reduction in the completion cost in 2016.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
All right I must have misheard you.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We expect the drilling completion cost to be over 15% per lateral foot less than what we saw in 2015.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Right.
But I thought it was just on the completion side.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
That's both drilling and complete – yeah.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Dan.
Thanks for taking my questions.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Pearce.
My first question is on the 2016 production guidance can you provide any kind of mix or liquids production growth? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well our liquids is going to be consistent with what we exit our fourth quarter of 2015 average.
And that's going to be our liquids number.
And we were thinking anywhere between 14 000 to 15 500 barrels is the fourth quarter guidance.
Natural gas we're going to be at 1.475 to 1.6 as our fourth quarter guidance.
Great.
Thank you.
And then how many drilled uncompleted wells do you think you'll have at year end 2015 based on your guidance for 2016? It looks like that's coming down by about 30 wells.
I had in my notes previously that you are talking about having about 70 wells in backlog at year-end 2015 about 50 in the Marcellus and about 20 in the Eagle Ford.
I'm just curious if that was still the same.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
We're going to have 55 or so in the Marcellus and we'll have Steve 22 wells in the Eagle Ford that are in backlog going into 2016.
And then at year-end 2016 that's going to be reduced by approximately 30 based on your guidance? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We have 39 wells in the Marcellus and we have about seven wells in the Eagle Ford.
Thank you.
And then one last from me just a clarification in the prepared remarks did you say that it will take about $175 million of CapEx to hold your production flat in the Marcellus? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
If you wanted to hold it flat...
For maintenance...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
That's what it would take.
And so does that imply that there's about $250 million $280 million of growth CapEx for the Marcellus for this next year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's correct.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much Dan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And some of that obviously is directed towards 2017 also.
Great.
Thank you Dan.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Our next question comes from Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks guys for the color on your curtailed production and kind of wells in backlog.
What do you see your competitors in Northeast PA having in terms of those two curtailed production and wells in backlog? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Bob that's hard to get our arms around.
We think there are curtailed volumes up there.
There certainly has been a reduction in the level of activity as we referenced nine rigs and only a handful of rigs and I mean completion crews.
And we think there will be from this point forward we think there'll be less than 700 or so stages completed between now and year-end up in the Northeast PA.
So to be able to say how much is curtailed and how much is being worked off it's a hard number to come up with.
Okay.
Thanks.
And a quick question going from 24-hour to 12-hour completion crews is there a cost related to that or loss of efficiency? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think we probably – I think it's safe to say you have a little bit loss of efficiency by not doing 24/7 operations.
But overall when we reference our decrease in cost from 2015 to our anticipated cost in 2016 we certainly have taken that ineffective part of our program into consideration.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Brian.
If we take your 2016 CapEx guidance together with your backlog and curtailments what production capacity should we expect you to have at the end of 2016? And really trying to think about the upside case in which Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise come on by 2017 what additional drilling you'll need to meet those obligations? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hard number to come up with specifically on what we have.
I'm kind of looking around the table and nobody's raised their hand yet on that Brian.
But let me say it this way that as we put together our program for 2016 we felt and certainly feel very comfortable about what we're able to deliver in volumes for 2016.
Highlighting that point is the amount of capital necessary to just keep us flat is – it's not inconsequential but it's not a very very high number at all.
But looking at 2016 was not really the target of what we tried to accomplish with our program.
We approach it in a conservative manner trying to stay within cash flow using a conservative commodity price.
And frankly in our range that we used again risking our number though our expectation is Constitution will be a 2016 event we have actually not included any volumes in our 2% to 10% range on the production range that we provided in our guidance.
So in looking at what we're able to have rolling out of 2016 with our current capital program and looking at our ability to ramp up in a fairly short fashion if we wanted to add some incremental capital we have no question rolling into the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017 that we're going to be able to fill not only Constitution but also Atlantic Sunrise which gets us to the 1.35 additional incremental – 1.35 Bcf a day that we expect to be moving in 2017.
Okay.
Thanks.
I mean that kind of dovetails to the usual question of when Constitution comes online and frankly when Atlantic Sunrise comes online assuming they do is that your intention to grow incrementally by that 1.35 Bcf a day or would you take some of your production currently oversupply in the local market and divert it on to those pipelines? My sense here is you're more willing to guide to/consider the latter but maybe you could expand on that and then further follow-up that if you did want to grow by 1.35 Bcf a day from here would you need a big ramp up in the rig counts? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well yes.
We're going to need to grow – the total volume to be incremental we would have to move the rig count up a little bit and we would complete additional stages then we have forecast for probably the latter part of 2016.
But I still feel like and if Phil was sitting here that if we see that everything is staying online in the latter part of 2016 that everything or Atlantic Sunrise is in queue moving towards the September commissioning that we would be able to meet those volumes 850 million a day as incremental volumes with our anticipated 2017 program.
Certainly we haven't made the guidance in release of what our capital program and activity level would be in 2017.
But we would be able to meet the September commissioning of Atlantic Sunrise with incremental volumes to where we stand today.
Got it.
Assuming some normal but not – assuming some ramp-up in the rig count as you mentioned.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's right.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Beard of Coker Palmer.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Dan.
Most of my questions have been asked.
But I wonder if you could give us a little color on the service costs that you outlined.
Is that a 15% decline from average of this year or from this point going forward? And could you give us any color of that number between efficiencies and actually price cuts? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
The cost – the 15% drilling completion cost – total well cost reduction is from our average of 2015 costs.
And I'm sorry David I didn't get the second part of your question.
Inc.</span></strong> And just of that 15% decline per lateral foot how much of that comes from efficiencies versus price declines from vendors? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We had a slide in our most recent investor presentation.
And on the completion side the majority of the cost is from cost reductions.
On the drilling side the majority of the cost is from efficiencies.
And we have a slightly higher cost on the total well cost drilling and complete completion costs represent a little bit higher percentage of total well cost than the drilling side.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
That's helpful.
Appreciate the color.
Thanks for the time.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Deckelbaum of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning Dan.
Thanks for all the color and everything.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah David.
Inc.</span></strong> Just as a point of clarification with Atlantic Sunrise obviously being larger volumetrically coming on in second half of 2017 is it fair to say that the 2016 program that you have lined out right now even if Constitution gets delayed even further that this is sort of like the minimal amount of activity that you would have going on in the Marcellus because there's obviously not a whole lot of capital required to keep the production flat.
But as you're looking at this multi-year progression ramping into what would be required for Atlantic Sunrise as well if by some measure we end up thinking that Constitution is going to come on line materially later than anticipated is there some downside to that 2016 CapEx number? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Downside in the sense that we would reduce our capital program.
Inc.</span></strong> You'll be spending less than – yeah.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
We would manage that yes.
We would manage that allocation of capital and we certainly do not want to have capital sitting out in the field that we can't monetize.
So we would probably reduce our exposure reduce our capital until the appropriate time that we could plan for the commissioning of the pipeline if we were to see a significant delay in the commissioning.
But I wouldn't have expected the approval to occur on Constitution prior to this time.
However I'm not disillusioned to the extent that we don't expect it to come in a timely manner for 2016's estimated commissioning.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate that.
And just a last one for me Dan or Jeff.
Could you contrast I mean qualitatively from an operator perspective the differences of the risk in your mind of waiting on Constitution relative to waiting on Atlantic Sunrise and how those two processes – as investors wait for Constitution to come on here and the process is quite delayed? Can you contrast the experience so far with Atlantic Sunrise and maybe the difference in that risk of delay? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well Atlantic Sunrise is making – I'll let Jeff weigh in in a second to make kind of editorial comment.
But on Constitution we have been years in discussions preparation and have fulfilled all of the requests all the mitigating factors all of the hurdles that have been brought by the interested parties including the New York DEC.
We have added certainly some of the mitigating factors added incremental cost to the project.
We had a major reroute of the – that was fine with Constitution to mitigate any watershed issues.
And in fact by that reroute we improved what we think was any impact.
And we have again on stream crossings have extensive plan in place that mitigates any of the concerns about stream crossings.
And that has been well documented by the DEC and now has been prepared into a final document.
So I think everybody's pleased with that effort.
Atlantic Sunrise is in that same process now in having discussions for the mitigation factors and looking at the right of ways to be able to mitigate any concerns that any stakeholders might have at that stage.
I feel comfortable that the outline and the timing of commissioning that we've laid out is going to be met.
Jeff you can weigh in on...
Yeah.
David probably the biggest difference on the two projects besides just the learning curve aspect of the second project is the route on the Greenfield portion of Atlantic Sunrise is totally in the State of Pennsylvania where we have a long history of working with the DEP and with the FERC.
And so I think from a simpler project aspect it's gone smoothly so far.
I mean the community outreach portion of the project's been very successful.
The survey permissions and the right of way acquisitions been very successful to-date.
Project is on schedule.
And we're – at this point in time we look very good in terms of hitting the in-service date.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful guys.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks David.
This concludes our question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Well I appreciate the interest in Cabot.
I know there are some frustration by all of us on our ability to be able to get the infrastructure in place and commissioned and to be able to move the natural gas in support of all those that are looking forward to having it.
I do hope that the takeaway this morning is that Cabot does remain focused in all the right areas and that is a disciplined focus on the efficiencies and returns while managing our business for the long-term success of the organization.
Additionally we remain committed to effectively managing those controllable variables that we have in our program and also mitigate the uncontrollables the best as we possibly can.
So again thank you.
And certainly I think Cabot has some brighter days out in front of it.
Thank you Carrie.
Thank you sir.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Welcome to the Cabot Oil &amp; Gas Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Dan Dinges Chairman President and CEO.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Carrie and good morning to all.
Thank you for joining us today for Cabot's fourth quarter and full-year 2015 earnings call.
With me today as usual are several members of Cabot's executive management team.
Before we start let me say that the standard boilerplate regarding forward-looking statements are -- included in this morning's press release applies to the comments on today's call.
This morning's press release along with our press release from two weeks ago outlining our updated 2016 budget highlights that while our industry continues to struggle to adjust to persistently low commodity prices Cabot remained well-positioned to navigate through this challenging market environment due to our high-quality asset base low-cost structure strong balance sheet and our capital discipline.
While most financial metrics were down year-over-year admit a backdrop of lower commodity prices I am pleased with our overall report card for the year which included 13% production growth despite continued price related curtailments and a significant reduction in capital spending.
Additionally we grew reserves 11% despite reduced operating activity and lower SEC prices used in calculating year-end reserve.
I believe these results highlight the quality of our assets and their ability to generate positive result in most commodity price cycles.
Our ability to grow production and reserves in a capital efficient manner is certainly impressive equally as pleased with the continued reduction in our cost structure throughout the organization.
2015 marked another year of lower operating costs and finding cost for Cabot driven by a combination of internally driven efficiencies and lower service cost.
This reduction in cost has allowed for improving project level economics despite lower commodity prices and positions the Company well for the eventual recovery in both natural gas and oil price realizations.
Capital discipline has been a hallmark of Cabot strategy over the years and 2015 was no exception.
We ended 2015 with a capital program that came in 14% lower than budget while still delivering on our production guidance for the year.
This reduction in capital spending was especially apparent in the fourth quarter as we generated positive free cash flow despite realizing our lowest price for the year.
Our previously announced 2016 budget also highlights the Company's financial discipline with another 58% year-over-year reduction in capital spending.
We remain committed to our prudent capital allocation strategy and will strive to continue to improve capital efficiencies throughout our operation which we believe will result in continued value creation for our shareholders.
As I highlighted to our shareholders over the last 18 months our game plan has remained relatively unchanged during this down cycle giving our strategy has always been to first maintain balance sheet strength while also align our capital spending with anticipated operating cash flows and allocate capital to our highest return projects.
We also run a lean efficient operation in order to keep operating costs including low overhead.
And we focus on delivering long-term value creation from our high-quality asset base.
This strategy has allowed us to prosper in most favorable price environments and we think we will continue to be able to navigate successfully through this current downturn.
Now let's move to the Marcellus.
2015 was another successful year for our Marcellus program which generated positive free cash flow for the year despite lower natural gas prices realizations.
We continue to allocate the majority of our capital to our high-return asset in the Marcellus which still generate good returns despite the low realizations.
We averaged approximately 1.5 Bcf per day of net production despite curtailing over 75 Bcf of net production during the year.
This surplus curtailed volume at year end gives us significant flexibility this year and allowed us to reduce capital spending substantially year over year with minimal impact to our production.
On the operations front we went from three drilling rigs in the fourth quarter down to one rig in the mid-January.
We're currently running one frac crew on daylight operations only and plan to continue at this pace throughout 2016.
With a decrease in drilling activity we plan to work down our backlog of drilled uncompleted wells throughout the year from 63 at year-end 2015 to 48 at year-end 2016.
This inventory along with expected curtailed year end volumes provides us with flexibility to ramp our volumes in 2017 assuming both a timely in-service for Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise and an improvement in realizations in Appalachia.
Our team in the Marcellus continues to improve their operating efficiencies which is evident from the reduction in well cost by over 30% relative to the prior year.
We expect to average a 7 000 foot lateral from 2016 Marcellus program at a well cost of approximately $6.7 million or approximately $960 per lateral foot.
This well cost does include all capital associated with roads pad build-out production facilities and things of that nature.
On the operating cost front we continue to see a reduction in our per unit cost with direct OpEx decreasing to $0.04 per Mcf and total cash cost per unit decreasing to $0.82 per Mcf with gathering and transportation being the biggest component.
In this morning's press release we announced an increase in our Marcellus EUR guidance as well as a 15% increase in our Marcellus inventory to 3 450 locations and an increase in our lower Marcellus guidance per EUR per 1 000 foot from 3.6 Bcf to 3.8 Bcf further reinforcing our estimated recoveries as best-in-class across the entire Marcellus.
Pricing remains the biggest challenge for us in the northeast PA; however we're optimistic about the future giving the significant reduction of activity in our operating area which should ultimately result in a reduction of supply.
For example in the six county area in northeast PA that accounts for over 8 Bcf per day of natural gas production there are currently only four rigs operating and four daylight-only frac crews working.
While no one can refute the wells in this part of the state are very productive and there is a backlog of wells still waiting for completion that can add volumes to the mix with a relatively limited capital investment these production levels are simply not sustainable based on the reduced level of activity we see today.
This could set us up for a favorable rebalancing of supply and demand later this year or in early 2017 which could certainly greatly benefit Cabot.
While it is far too early to provide any significant details on our plans for 2017 I would highlight that our unique set of assets in the Marcellus provides us with optionality as we assess our plans for the future.
If market conditions improve and our takeaway capacity is placed in service according to our current expectations then we can deliver on a program that generates double-digit production growth in 2017.
More importantly this program can provide even greater cash flow growth due to increasing margins as we assess more favorable markets all while deleveraging the balance sheet of today's strip.
However if there are any unexpected delays in infrastructure build-out or more generally market conditions remain depressed we have an asset that requires minimal capital investment to maintain flat production.
In that scenario while top-line production volumes would be flat we would still realize significant cash flow growth in 2017 due to improving price realizations while generating free cash flow and deleveraging the balance sheet.
While there is still a lot of uncertainty on how market conditions will evolve over the next 12 to 24 months we're fortunate to have this set of assets that allow for this type of flexibility as we weather the storm.
Moving down south into Texas in the Eagle Ford our team experienced another exceptional year operationally which was unfortunately overshadowed by lower crude prices.
Our drilling team continued to outperform expectations reducing our spud-to-TD drilling days for a 7 700 foot lateral to eight days.
This has resulted in a 45% reduction in drilling cost relative to 2014 almost all of which was driven by internal efficiencies as opposed to service cost reductions given that our rig was under a long-term older contract priced environment during the year.
The team drilled is longest lateral to date of 11 588 feet in 11.6 days from spud to TD with the total measured depth of 19 930 feet.
Kudos to the drilling team.
Additionally the rig we utilized during 2015 ranked second in total footage drilled among the roughly 200 rigs that our third-party provider contracted throughout all basins in 2015 -- another good indication of our efficiency.
We do anticipate an eventual recovery in oil prices and we believe our 86 000 net acres in the Eagle Ford can provide for long-term value creation in a slightly more favorable price environment.
As a result our focus in 2016 is to reduce our operating activity to the minimum levels needed to ensure we maintain all our core acreage.
We recently released our Eagle Ford drilling rig.
Based on our anticipated level of activity we will be able to maintain all of our lease-hold obligations through 2016.
We exited fifth 2015 with 23 net wells drilled but uncompleted and we'll work down some of that inventory throughout the year due to conditions -- continuous operation commitments which should help arrest some of our natural declines we see in the field.
We plan to exit 2016 with 13 net drilled uncompleted wells in our backlog.
Now move to the approved reserve results.
In this morning's release we announced our sixth consecutive year of double-digit reserve growth which is truly an impressive giving the increasing trend of declining reserves across industry due to price related revisions.
Our year-end reserves increased 11% to 8.2 Tcfe despite a 40% and 47% reduction in natural gas and oil price realizations used in our reserve report respectively.
Cabot's all source finding and development cost for the year were $0.57 per Mcfe while our Marcellus all source finding and development cost were $0.31 per Mcf both significantly lower than prior years driven by strong performance revisions in the Marcellus as our well performance has continue to exceed expectations.
Approved developed percentage decreased slightly from 61% in 2014 to 59% in 2015 primarily as our percentage of proved undeveloped reserves associated with drilled but uncompleted wells increased from 7% to 11%.
2015 is another positive year report for Cabot especially in light of the environment we're operating in today.
To get to Constitution I'm sure it's on many of your minds.
Recently we had a flurry of activity surrounding Constitution Pipeline.
While we do not have specific details we can share today regarding our final permit issuance I can assure you that discussions to have the permit issued as soon as possible are ongoing.
As a backdrop of 2016 activity on January 8 Constitution asked FERC for a partial notice to proceed with non-mechanized tree clearing.
On January 29 FERC issued the Notice to Proceed for tree felling but limited our activity at this time to Pennsylvania.
Tree felling began February 5 in Pennsylvania.
As of today approximately 60% of the trees in Pennsylvania on the Constitution right-of-way are down.
This represents approximately 18% of the trees for the entire right-of-way.
Additionally the FERC is still considering our request for felling trees in New York.
Also on January 28 the FERC issued an order on the pending rehearing request regarding the December 2014 order that issued our FERC certificate.
The order thoroughly considered and firmly rejected all arguments and ultimately declined all requests for rehearing -- another positive step for Constitution.
Moving on to the Atlantic Sunrise project as a reminder this new pipeline will transport 850 000 decotherms on Cabot's behalf to markets in the Atlantic -- in the mid-Atlantic area.
To date the project remains on schedule with initial pipe shipments already on location and the draft environmental impact statement expected shortly from the FERC.
Before I move on I would like to make one quick point on perceived versus real impact of pipelines.
Bottom line pipelines get buried the right-of-way gets reclaimed with a much faller footprint than renewables.
In the case of Constitution there are approximately 1 100 acres of right-of-way.
For example for solar to produce an equivalent level of power generation it would require instead of an 1 100 acre foot right-of-way of a buried pipeline solar equivalent would take 25 600 acre footprint of solar panels.
And for wind on an equivalent level of production as Constitution might produce it would require approximately 2 000 turbines spread across 260 miles which is double the length of the Constitution buried pipeline right-of-way.
Certainly staggering differences yet the narrative is not discussed much.
Again just fun facts.
In addition to Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise Pipelines Cabot is also involved in three other significant projects in the Northeast beginning in late 2017 the PennEast pipeline Tennessee's Orion pipeline and the Moxie Freedom power plant.
Collectively these projects add approximately 445 000 decotherms per day of new long-term sales and transport capacity for Cabot.
Our involvement in the Moxie Freedom project is especially unique as we will be the sole supplier of up to 165 000 decotherms per day of natural gas to this new facility located just a few miles away from our existing infrastructure.
These projects highlight our ongoing marketing strategy along with other projects in the queue.
Another marketing related item I would like to highlight is our mix of firm sales and firm transportation capacity moving forward relative to our planned production profile.
There has been a lot of discussion recently around the industry about capacity being over-built and the significant commitments and liabilities that producers have subscribed to over the past few years.
While we have been questioned during the past few years for not having enough firm transportation out of our supply area as the Northeast market became over-supplied longer term I believe our strategy of not over committing to FT and instead focusing on high-quality capacity with strong demand on the other side of the pipeline is the appropriate strategy.
As a result we feel our overall marketing strategy and the modest amount of commitments we have going forward will continue to provide significant growth from our future production plans and continue our long-term strong financial position.
I'll move to our guidance -- brief comment there.
As a reminder earlier this month we released our updated guide for 2016.
Our updated budget of $325 million was designed to allow us to spend within operating cash flows at strip prices while still providing measured growth in 2016 in the 2% to 7% range.
We also anticipate between $80 million and $150 million in contributions for investments in Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise which will be dependent upon the ongoing regulatory process and the corresponding impact of the timing of actual construction activities.
Drilling completion and facility capital account for approximately 92% of the capital budget with approximately 70% allocated to the Marcellus and 30% allocated to the Eagle Ford shale.
In total we plan to drill approximately 30 net wells in 2016 and complete approximately 55 net wells.
This level of activity allows us to meet all of our obligatory drilling and operating commitments and maintain operating efficiencies throughout the program while our anticipated year-end backlog of 61 drilled uncompleted wells Company-wide provides us flexibility into 2017.
As for pricing we're currently forecasting a Company-wide natural gas differential of $0.70 per Mcf for the full year before the impact of derivatives which represents a $0.15 improvement relative to our 2015 differential.
Obviously this overall program is dependent upon the reference to infrastructure projects and their timing.
If delayed these numbers could move lower.
In summary that is our program.
And Carrie I would be more than happy to answer any questions.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question will come from Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Please go ahead.
Thank you for your comments and I particularly appreciated the fun facts session.
But if we could go back to -- you have already touched on a lot of these themes.
But if I could try a question that would maybe tie it together.
Looking ahead to the time when you have the more takeaway and more local demand how should we think about the cost and the number of wells that you will need to turn the line to fill up those new pipes? And with this -- what I'm really after is how should we think about your capital efficiency? Because it's hard to judge based on your results because you guys have been infrastructure constrained for so long.
So when you look to the day -- you have to deliver another 500 million a day how many wells and how much capital should we think about that requiring? That's a good question.
And we have certainly put together a five-year budget.
We don't layout our five-year budget but we talk about it.
And we look at all of the scenarios both upside downside and a lot of sensitivities.
But as you roll forward into 2017 and looking at fulfilling our growth opportunities with additional infrastructure in 2017 as an example -- and let's look at it historically Charles and historically we have never been over six rigs.
And we have had the majority of the time one to two frac crews episodically we have had three frac crews on a one-off pad site or something like that.
But typically in the past we have never been greater than two frac crews.
When you roll into 2017 and looking at our buildup of our program in 2017 we do not envision to get much greater if greater at all than the six rigs and two or so frac crews to fulfill our additional infrastructure capacity that we create.
And this is maybe a follow-up to that and the part of the same question I suppose.
When you mentioned 75 Bcf was curtailed or you ended up behind choke in 2015 by my math that works at around 200 million a day is that the right number for year-end 2015 or is year-end 2015 that number a little lower? No.
And keep in mind that 75 Bcf is a net number and also 2015 at year-end it was higher.
Our next question comes from Michael Glick of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Maybe just to dovetail on Charles' question a little bit as it relates to new pipes how should we be thinking about price points where you grow versus displacing existing volumes and maybe how much flexibility you have on that point? Okay.
That's a good question Michael.
And certainly the macro environment at the time of commissioning of new infrastructure is going to play in our decision on how much will be acceleration incremental volumes if you will versus how much is going to displace off the three pipes that we're currently producing on.
And I'll let Jeff answer some of this in a brief second.
But in the beginning Michael I think it would be prudent for us to fill the new infrastructure first because the price points we're going to be receiving on the new build is going to be a price point out of the challenged realizations that we have had either on Millennium Tennessee or the Leidy Line.
So we would fill that immediately and there will be a transition period of the backfill of the displaced volumes that we put into the new pipes.
And we will continue to again backfill.
But we do expect that we would probably see with the volumes that we would be lifting out of the current area and off of our current three pipes we do expect to see a compression of the deferential.
And when you look at the timing of commissioning of those -- the new pipes out of that area we think it could be contemporaneous with an inflection point of the supply side due to the limited amount of activity up in that particular area as we speak.
So there's going to be a combination of things that will help dictate and set the table for us on how we would grow into that new capacity.
I will also say this though we're delivering returns today and we're in a -- been in a punitive price environment and realizations more so than most for an extended period of time.
The program still today delivers free cash flow with good returns.
The incremental volumes that we move into new areas with we think improved realizations is going to -- even in spite of keeping the current strip we think is going to significantly improve our life from where we're today.
And could you maybe just speak to how you're thinking about leverage and maybe what leverage ratio you're comfortable with kind of over the next year or year and a half.
You want my opinion and then Scott's? Sounds good.
Well we certainly have tried and I think we have done a good job to keep our balance sheet with strength and allowed optionality on our program.
And lower realizations have certainly pressured everybody's balance sheet and we're seeing it now in the market.
Not only in what's going on out there with a lot of companies but certainly the reduction in capital programs is reflective of a balance sheet.
But I will let Scott discuss our leverage and he can lay out what he is comfortable with.
And I will weigh in if I need to.
Well you better weigh in.
Michael we're comfortable with where we're at.
As Dan said in his comments we have always tried to target and our guidance highlights that also that we're trying to stay -- create a capital program that is right on top of where -- or inside of the anticipated cash flow based on the assumptions.
Now the one caveat to that is we do have the two infrastructure projects that we're watching very closely and its impact on our leverage and looking at what levers we may or may not need to pull on that as we go forward.
As you look back in history Cabot has always done a great job of -- when it did want to ask to expand capital in better markets it used the combination of asset sales and the like to make -- hit our desired levels and kind of maintain our financial strategy.
And that is no different today although that market that asset sale market is very challenged.
And you hear a lot of people that are going to be there.
But we're very comfortable with the base plan.
We're comfortable with the low 50% debt to total capital.
Our year-end number 2.5 times -- obviously just the math will move up.
We would like it to stay at 2.5 times.
But clearly with the underlying commodity prices and where cash flow is it is going to move up some during the course of 2016 which we're comfortable with.
Because as Matt laid out in Dan's comments we see a delevering event in 2017 just by the nature of these infrastructure and what our new volumes will get to.
So we're very comfortable where we're at right now.
Our next question comes from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
My first question just following up on Charles Meade's question is how much production was curtailed at year-end 2015? And then how much do you think could be curtailed at year-end 2016 if you assumed the current ford strip and your differential assumption? 300 million to 400 million.
300 million to 400 million at year-end 2015? At year-end 2015 yes.
Okay and then what about year-end 2016? I know that's hard but-- Year-end 2016 -- that is a hard one Pearce.
Kind of depends on the macro market.
We do think we're going to have as I indicated we do think we're going to have volumes available to us to be able to respond to the infrastructure build-out that we anticipate to occur in 2017.
But it's a hard number and I don't have the exact number.
It is a hard number two project in year-end 2016.
And then what is your base decline right now? And then I was intrigued with your prepared remarks.
And you mentioned in 2017 you felt like even if some projects were delayed that you could still generate -- you can keep production flat you could generate free cash flow and continue to delever.
So I was curious some of the assumptions around that as far as what base decline might be and maintenance CapEx.
Base decline is 25% 28% or so -- is the base decline.
And CapEx as we indicated in some of the comments in the speech to keep that production level maintained flat it is going to take very little capital intensity and activity to be able to do that into our 2017 program.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
First question I want to ask is I just wanted to make sure I understood the Eagle Ford.
It looks like you're not running a rig there now but you're going to drill five wells.
So can you just add some color as to when you're going to get a rig or how that's going to take place? Yes.
We have Steve Lindeman in here who's running our region -- south region and can comment on that.
We have drilled three wells to date and released the rig.
And then the two remaining that we have will be late in the year.
We've got one -- I think it's in August timeframe and then we'll come back in December.
I wanted to ask a different pipeline question.
And as a New York State resident I guess I'm not really happy with them but to your knowledge are there any examples of FERC ultimately superseding state authority and forcing the construction of a FERC-approved pipeline after a sufficient period of stalling on the part of the state? Jeff I don't know if that ground has been plowed yet.
And there is a number of considerations.
And as you might appreciate we have looked at all angles and all options and all scenarios on getting to the commissioning and construction stage of Constitution.
We do think that there has been adequate amount of time and deliberation in New York.
29 months is the process to date.
So we have had great discussions in the past with New York on trying to address all concerns and mitigate the -- each stakeholder's concerns about laying the pipeline how it would be done.
We have rerouted we have discussed about stream crossing and how to bore how to open cut all of those things.
In this environment and in the environment we live right now there is certainly a contingent out there that don't want hydrocarbons in the mix.
And that contingent is vocal and they speak out.
There is a belief that we have that the Constitution pipeline from what we have been able to tell from the Governor's of New York's plan and looking at the energy future for New York natural gas is an energy source that is required for him to be able to fulfill his plan.
So we think we're going to get to the endgame and we certainly would like the input of New York into the process and all of the work that we have done in the past to be used to -- actually for us to follow to the endgame on Construction for this pipeline.
The FERC has a job to do also.
They have a fiduciary role to the public to have projects move forward.
They have a lot of projects in front of them.
Certainly their jobs have become more challenged in the world we live today.
But nevertheless I think they have a job to fulfill to be able to take all parties issues under consideration look at the validity of all of this considerations and make prudent decisions that is best for the public's need.
And we think they will do that.
But I do not think Jeff -- again back to your -- the core of your question I don't think it's ever been challenged yet through the court system that the FERC is going to have to override a state's either lack of response or a negative response.
Well I appreciate that comprehensive answer.
And I guess just a follow-up to that and then I'm done.
How do you see the FERC backing down on the tree felling in New York State as part of this fed-state dynamic? Or does that say something potentially about their view that some kind of resolution of this coming sooner than later? Do you have any opinion about that? Yes I do.
First off just from a chronology standpoint we had early approvals from Pennsylvania in regard to the 401.
And we had -- and we have the ongoing delay from New York.
In FERC making that determination they felt like that they had all of the things they needed to see handily to be able to rule on the right-of-way in Pennsylvania.
And during this period of time the FERC has worked diligently to look at all aspects of their ongoing decision process to grant non-mechanized tree felling in New York and make sure that they have addressed all concerns that might be out there by all of the stakeholders.
The rulings have certainly made clear what authority they have.
And we think in due time that FERC will make a decision in regard to tree felling in New York.
Our next question comes from Bob Bakanauskas of JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just a follow up quickly on Constitution given the FERC -- given FERC rejected the request for the rehearing what has been communicated to you as the reason for the delay at this point? I will turn it over to Jeff Bob.
Bob I'm sorry I heard the first part of the question.
I did not hear the end.
Do you mind repeating? Sure.
Given FERC already rejected the request for the rehearing what has been communicated to you guys in terms of the delay now in New York State in terms of the reason for the delay? Okay.
So in New York State the communication has been sparse.
But we do understand that the application itself has been thorough.
There has been no data request to supplement it.
There has been no routes or reroutes requested.
But just don't have a good answer to that question except to say that it's been fully considered and it's on the -- we think it's on the verge of being issued.
And just can you remind us on the timeline in terms of -- I know it's sort of a difficult thing to answer given you need the final approval from New York State.
But can you just remind us of how you're thinking about -- do you need the permit in the next couple of months to get it on by the end of the year? Are you assuming that 2017 at this point? Or just generally can you put some parameters around it? We're still sticking with the fourth quarter 2016 as our in-service dates.
Our time is running out but we still have weeks.
And we used to have month but now we have weeks.
But we still are good with the second half of -- or late 2016 in-service.
Bobby I might add also that we have crews cutting trees right now.
We have additional personnel that we anticipate being able to utilize for felling trees.
And we continue to do the appropriate training and mitigation efforts to answer any concerns that any party might have in regard to non-mechanized tree felling.
And then just switching to the Marcellus noticing the longer laterals going from a 5900 to about 7000 feet.
Understand that some production is being curtailed at the moment but just in general could we assume a proportionate increase in ITs and URs relative to lateral length? Yes.
You certainly can.
Just one more quick one just on maintenance capital.
Should we think of this -- the $325 million in 2016 as an ongoing maintenance capital to keep production flat? I would think that it would be probably $350 000 million to $400 000 million.
Our next question comes from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
As you watched the Easter movement of the Utica shale into northern West Virginia and southwest PA how concerned if at all are you that this will represent greater long-term competition for you gas to find an accretive home directionally south and west? It's really more of a longer-term question above and beyond Atlantic Sunrise and Constitution and how you weigh the asset quality improvements you have discussed with whether it makes sense to be northeast PA or more diverse beyond your existing Eagle Ford position.
I will let Jeff kind of take some of this.
But first comment is in looking at the two areas and you've kind of identified in laying out your question Brian.
But the northeast of where we're majority of gas is -- goes east and southeast.
We do have gas on Atlantic Sunrise which will go towards the south also.
Although all that volume 850 million is committed right now to WGL and to the co-point LNG facility.
We think that the volume of gas that is out there right now obviously strains the supply demand curve.
We think additional demand is coming.
We think there will be in the South -- to your point -- in the South and along the Gulf Coast we think there's significant amount of LNG displacement that will occur with some of the supply volumes that are in the South.
And we think that we have is equally as good opportunity to be able to market our gas not only directionally to the east northeast and southeast up into our area but we do think that we will be able to market our gas into the South.
More supply -- just on a general note -- more supply whether it's oil or gas into a limited demand circumstance is going to be -- is going to have that dynamic of lower prices.
We think that maybe through this period of time looking at what's going on in our industry and looking at the capital programs that have been reduced looking at the ratings that have been imposed -- public rating -- on some of the companies looking at the oversupplied market maybe there would be some rationalization in the market as we move forward also.
I'll let Jeff comment also.
Yes Brian it's been interesting to watch the last few years as we've gone from 5 Bcf a day from production in northeast PA to the current level of 8 Bcf.
And if you examine it closely and look at the meters along the six county area that we produce in we're actually the null point for the three pipes that we produce in.
So for example most of our gas that goes into Millennium goes to the east where a majority of the gas out of Bradford Tioga County for example goes west.
Same thing happens in Tennessee and the same thing happens on Transco.
So we're -- we like where we're geographically and getting into the pipes.
I think with Constitutional and Atlantic Sunrise it enhances that.
But I don't see a large over-built situation in northeast PA like we do and southwest PA and the Utica.
We feel like that over-built infrastructure will absorb some of the Utica gas but it will definitely head west and northwest and south.
And then separately on the resource side of things you highlighted the impact that some of the measures you have taken over the last year reducing the spacing along the laterals and then how you do the 200 foot stages and the impact that's had on your resource per well and location count.
Can you talk about the 2016 program and whether -- what you're testing in 2016 and to what degree you are able to do that within the capital program that you have set up? Well we have recently -- on the spacing side we have ongoing wells currently producing that have term production and certainly setting their own production curve that we will continue to utilize and evaluate the spacing that we think we can get down to.
We just had enough data -- enough well results to be able to determine that between 700 foot and 800 foot and we were comfortable that stage.
But we will continue to look at it -- down the road we will continue to look at the viability of the spacing that we think we can get down to without the creation of an acceleration profile to our mix.
So and with that being said we have tried all different frac stage spacing scenarios and we have a fairly voluminous database in that regard and feel that 200 foot spacing is a good design.
We continue though to look at any of the ideas that are new to industry whether it's something as simple as more profit per stage or different profit size.
All of the things that are discussed and looked at out there by the industry we will continue to look at it.
And both Steve Lindeman and Phil Stalnaker who runs our North and South region they and their crew continue to read and look at and in some cases test all the different ideas that are out there in industry that we all hear about and we talk about and they visit with the third-party service sector on what might be applicable to enhance efficiencies in our program.
So I don't have anything specific that I will talk about today but we do look at all of it I can assure you.
Our next question comes from Marshall Carver of Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
One question around the shut-in production factored into your 2016 guidance.
What would your average shut-ins be that's cooked into that 2016 guidance? It's a number based on timing of when we decide to bring on any given pad location.
For example if we bring on a pad location that has three wells on it versus -- and that -- we still have some opportunities to address where we go with our frac crew.
And that movement of where we move a frac crew can dictate how much in a snapshot period of time our a finite period of time we would curtail.
If we bring on a 3 well location that has 32 frac stages per well versus an 8 well location that has 40 stages per well the -- and the timing of that is three or four months it affects the amount of volumes that we might have curtailed for 2016.
So it's a hard number to just say exactly what it is.
I'm not trying to dance around your question.
I'm just saying that it's hard to be specific but it's certainly 100 000 to 200 000 cubic foot per day.
Okay.
And on the increased inventory count is that a mix of upper Marcellus and lower Marcellus and what would the-- Keep in mind just as a backdrop Marshall the entire area that we have out there has both the upper and lower Marcellus under our acreage.
So as we reduce the spacing in those areas we will have both upper and lower Marcellus in those additional wells that we're adding to the inventory.
Okay.
So it's roughly an even split? Yes roughly.
Our next question comes from David Beard of Coker Palmer.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to follow up a little bit to just understand what you're thinking relative to balance sheet and cash flow.
Should the pipelines get approved and you say you wouldn't want to go above six rigs is there an out-spend number which gates how quickly you would add rigs? Or do you think your balance sheet is strong enough that you will bring the production on to fill the pipes or something in between? Let me give it a stab David.
We feel very comfortable about our balance sheet.
We feel very comfortable about being able to ramp up a level of activity to a level that we have already experienced in the past.
We feel very comfortable that our balance sheet will be able to handle that level of activity and the outspend being minimal through that process.
I'm sorry the last part about your question -- No.
You have answered that just relative to the outspend and the ramp in production -- just try to get your feel there and no you have answered it.
Appreciate the time and congratulations on nice year.
Thank you David.
Our next question comes from Mark Hanson of Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
So just curious here -- at current strip prices and given your 2016 drilling plans obviously knowing that things can change over time where do you envision total debt to EBITDAX ending up at year-end 2016? And if you do get tight what are some of the levers that you can pull to kind of move around that 4.75 times max under the senior note amendment that was recently filed? Mark you are correct.
We model the upper 3's the low 4's.
We're not -- unless there's a dramatic drop in the strip even further the 4.75 does not come into play.
But we do have some -- as I mentioned earlier we have some assets that we could potentially trade.
We do have a level of interest -- not committed to doing that but it is an option.
We could also slow down activity further if we really decided.
And one of the comments is our activity level at 3.25 which we reaffirmed is contingent on continuing progress on the infrastructure project.
If those get delayed that spend which is part of our overall analysis goes down also.
So we could conserve capital to manage through that process.
Our effort and the amendment process of the covenants was to give us enough flexibility through 2016 and we believe we accomplished that.
Our next question comes from Karl Chalabala of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Please go ahead.
I had a couple issues I would like to raise.
One can you give some clarity -- I have June 18 for the startup day for the Moxie Freedom Power Plant over there.
Is that good? And then what is the index price that is tied to? And are you in any other conversations with the new power plants up in Pennsylvania? Yes.
You are correct on the in-service for the Moxie plant June 2018.
That could be a little bit early a little bit later than that but the project has all the financing and is full steam ahead for that facility.
In terms of pricing on the Moxie we did the press release along with Moxie that the pricing terms on that could also contains a power net-back pricing mechanism so that our gas price does move somewhat with power pricing.
However we also put in the press release that we have natural gas protection -- price protection in the agreement.
So that we have -- I think we quoted in the press release -- a guaranteed high rate of return on the development of the reserves for that project.
So in other words there is a gas price floor that is attractive to us that we haven't revealed.
So it's a gas price that moves with power pricing.
Yes on the third part of your question when we press released the news about Moxie we had a number of power developers who like the structure and we're in conversations with several.
And then how should -- there's some concerns with the deal with Williams and CapEx spend there.
You guys are an equity investor and you have commented that you're continued -- or you're planning to have that spend planned in CapEx.
What would -- how should we be thinking about slippage risks for Atlantic Sunrise which does not face the sort of regulatory environment concerns that Constitution does? Okay.
If I understood the first part of your question you were asking about whether or not we felt that Williams could continue to fund the projects? Yes correct.
Okay.
So we have had that discussion with Williams.
And I don't know if you listen to the call yesterday or a press release they made a few weeks ago but they are committed to their interstate projects.
They feel any cutback on funding would have to do with expansion of nonregulated interstate projects such as processing plants or even in the gathering infrastructure world where they operate in Ohio and southwest PA.
But they are committed to the funding on the interstate pipeline projects.
And I think they even mentioned that they are really not moving ahead with any projects that are in the design phase but are going to concentrate on the ones that are fully committed to and in the queue.
Our next question comes from Jon Wolff of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
I was going to ask about the interesting observation about the pipelines coming on contemporaneously with potentially production slowing or falling in northeast PA.
Production has obviously been resilient with other operators in the region not being very active at all.
Any evidence that an industry shut-ins are lower than they were and/or any evidence that there is some hope that production in the region can fall and help you gain a little share? I think the lack of activity drilling and completion Jon is going to show up in any curtailed volumes just like Cabot.
Any curtailed volumes that were back earlier in the year and whatever volumes they were you're going to have some natural runoff with the lack of activity of your base decline.
I think that is certainly going on.
I can't give you an exact figure of what's curtailed today.
But whatever is curtailed today I think is significantly less volumes than that were curtailed back in the summer of 2015.
Yes.
All I can really answer is directionally I'm sure less volume curtailed.
We look at the number of [indiscernible] and a guess we're only able to really see it on statewide basis but any feel for -- I guess you know your own ducks -- but of uncompleted wells counts of -- I would imagine if I had to come down given the rig count has been so low.
Yes.
I think that is exactly the case.
Ducks are -- will be coming down some and with 4 rigs and 4 daylight frac crews running up there in an area that has 8 Bcf you could do some real simple math and determine that it's not going to maintain production flat.
We get the question what kind of maintenance capital is necessary to keep 1.5 Bcf or 2 Bcf flat.
And you look at that maintenance capital that is necessary and we had the absolute best rock in the northeast area of Pennsylvania.
So that other 8 Bcf you might note is not coming from the similar rock as Cabot.
It's good rock and I'm not throwing stones at it but it nevertheless -- statistically it is not as good as Cabot's rock.
So 4 rigs and 4 frac crews is not going to keep 8 Bcf flat.
Just out of curiosity what is non-mechanized tree felling? Is that using in axe or something? That's a hatchet.
Our next question comes from Dan Guffey of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Transportation and gathering has trended around low $0.70s per m in 2015 -- expected to be there in 2016.
I guess as you look at your five-year budget once Constitution and Atlantic Sunrise are in service where do you see that trending? I think it's between $0.85 to $0.90.
And then just one follow up on Constitution.
So you mentioned you have a few weeks window to get this online by fourth quarter.
Assuming New York sits on their hands and this gets pushed out another month or two assuming it gets approved in the spring how far back with the in-service date get pushed? It would go to the end of the first quarter end of the second quarter of 2017.
And this concludes our question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Dan Dinges for any closing remarks.
Thank you Carrie.
I appreciate the time today.
And I appreciate everybody's interest.
And I can assure you by the results that you've seen in our 2015 program that we're going to be able to navigate through this difficult environment.
And we expect that 2016 numbers will be equal to if not better than 2015.
Thanks again and we will see you at next quarter call.
Thank you.
The conference is now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.