Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins First Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Darla and good morning everyone.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being web cast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company’s Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
Well we think our fiscal year 2011 is off to a great start.
We posted EPS growth of 26% for the quarter and saw revenue increase by 8%.
These results were better than we expected and particularly strong in light of the negative news flow that seemed to present obstacles throughout the quarter.
It started with an in-flight incident on a 787 test aircraft that resulted in a further delay of entry into service.
This was followed by a deficit commission report which highlighted a few of our key defense programs as potential targets for reduction.
Then we had to absorb a delay in the KC-X award time.
And having missed the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit in our fiscal year 2010 we watched as post-election rhetoric lacked clarity regarding any tax policy compromise.
However as often happens things began to balance out.
At the 11th hour Congress extended Bush arrow tax cuts including the R&amp;D tax credit.
Then the Pentagon’s spending priorities were made clearer a few weeks ago by Defense Secretary Gates.
And despite another $78 billion in long-term cuts his announced plan included increased spending on F-18s F-35 simulators and accelerated funding for the Army's new tactical communications network.
All good news for us.
Earlier this week Boeing announced the revised 787 schedule that was in line with our previous estimates of risk.
However we have seen enough opportunity across the balance of our commercial businesses to believe the expected 787 risk will be offset for the full year.
Finally this strength across our commercial market provides more confidence in our projections of the timing and amplitude of the recovery.
Considering all these dynamics I'm very pleased with our performance to date.
Now I'd like to summarize what we're seeing in each of our markets and provide some perspective on some recent developments.
First in the commercial markets.
We're continuing to see robust OEM growth early in this recovery and now equivalent growth in the aftermarket with business jets leading the way.
The business jet market recovery remains aftermarket-led as improvements in corporate profitability are driving aircraft utilization up 5% for our fiscal year-to-date which has stimulated demand for our services and support as well as increased hardware spares and upgrades.
We anticipate utilization rates will continue to improve and are seeing a noticeable increase in aftermarket quote activity.
An unexpected development this quarter is that we're now beginning to see some very encouraging leading indicators in the business jet OEM market as well.
First the extension of bonus depreciation is making new aircraft more attractive for corporate customers even with a large inventory of used aircraft still available.
Second we've seen a substantial reduction of white tails from about 65 aircraft at the beginning of the quarter now down to about 10.
Finally for the first time in two years we're starting to get phone calls from some OEM customers positioning us for build rate increases in the future.
These indicators give us much higher confidence that we're on track to see new aircraft order activity pick up during 2011 supporting OEM rate increases as we move into 2012.
Now unlike past cycles in the air transport market OEM growth is leading the recovery.
OEM backlog expanded again this quarter as 2010 orders for Boeing and Airbus outpaced deliveries.
And both OEMs announced additional rate increases Boeing on the 777 and Airbus on their 330.
In the air transport aftermarket airlines continue to manage their fleet much more effectively with load factors at approximately 80% still.
This focus on higher load factors appears to be here to stay and is somewhat subduing the aftermarket recovery.
Now while we still expect traffic demand will drive aftermarket growth into double digits throughout the remainder of the year the timing and rate of the ramp-up is something that we'll watch closely.
On the government side of the business I was pleasantly surprised by our 6% revenue growth.
In the quarter the California Highway Patrol took additional deliveries of our iForce public safety system.
And we realized a higher-than-expected rate of DAGR product deliveries as well.
We expect our future growth opportunities to play out pretty much as we expected.
Demand for rotary wing aircraft continues to be very strong and fuels our growth across a multitude of those platforms.
Simulation and training for E-2 programs and now additional opportunities on F-35 make this an increasingly important component of our revenue.
We are also ramping up work on a few of our integration programs including the Common Range Integrated Instrumentation System or CRIIS and a program to provide secure communications on senior leadership aircraft called SLC3S.
Although we won't know the full impact of defense spending until we see the budget request later in February I'm optimistic that the priorities outlined to date are generally favorable to our company.
As I look at the current landscape in the government market I'm more confident in our ability to achieve our revenue plan.
We have incorporated all these developments into our updated guidance which Pat will go over in a minute and believe we can accommodate the expected impacts related to 787 and the KC-X programs.
Hopefully if these two programs experience no further delay we could be in a position of opportunity for the remainder of the year.
With that let me hand the call over to Patrick.
Thanks Clay.
Good morning to everyone.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the quarter and our updated 2011 financial guidance.
I'll begin on Slides 3 and 4 where we highlight our total company first quarter sales EPS net income and operating cash flow.
Total company sales for the quarter increased $83 million or 8% compared to last year's sales while net income and earnings per share grew by 25% and 26% respectively.
This increase in net income and earnings per share came primarily from incremental earnings flow on the commercial systems revenue growth and the benefit from the impact of the extension of the federal research and development tax credit with retroactive effect back to the beginning of calendar year 2010.
The law allowing R&amp;D tax credits expired on December 31 2009 and as such we were unable to recognize any R&amp;D tax credits related to the last nine months of our fiscal year 2010.
The benefit of this nine-month catch-up adjustment contributed $0.09 to our EPS in this quarter net of related employee incentive compensation costs.
Looking next to our operating cash flow results for the first quarter.
We generated $57 million $27 million lower than last year.
Our first fiscal quarter is typically our slowest cash flow generating quarter of the year a trend further exacerbated by payments for employee incentive compensation this quarter which we did not have to make last year.
Turning to Slides 5 and 6.
We take a look at first quarter results of our Commercial Systems business which achieved revenue of $460 million in 2011 up 12% from $411 million in 2010.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $32 million or 16% to $233 million primarily resulting from deliveries on the Boeing 787 Cessna CJ4 and Bombardier programs as revenues from these new aircraft wins fuel our growth.
Aftermarket sales increased 33% -- or $33 million or 20% to $200 million.
This growth includes incremental revenue related to our Air Routing acquisition of about $11 million.
Organic aftermarket revenue grew 13% mostly from increased service and support revenue across both the business in regional and air transport markets as well as increased retrofits and spares activities to our business and regional jet customers.
Wide-body in-flight entertainment products and services decreased $16 million or 37% to $27 million.
I would like to bring to your attention a change in our disclosure of sales.
We've adjusted our disclosure for wide-body in-flight entertainment revenue to include not only the twin-aisle products and systems but also the related service and support activities.
As many of you know we previously announced our decision to cease R&amp;D investment in new twin-aisle systems.
We are now combining the service and support with our product disclosure.
We feel that this provides a more appropriate view into the other ongoing and growing businesses of Commercial Systems.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased 24% to $84 million in 2011 with operating margins expanding from 16.5% to 18.3%.
The increase in operating earnings and margins was primarily due to the incremental earnings flow in our sales growth offset somewhat by the net impact of higher employee incentive compensation and lower pension expense.
Moving on to Page 7.
Government Systems achieved a revenue increase of 6% from $616 million in 2010 to $650 million in 2011.
Airborne Solutions sales increased $28 million or 7% to $438 million.
We had increased revenue from demand for rotary wing aircraft continued integration for the CRIIS program and development work on recent wins of E-2 simulation and training programs.
Surface Solutions sales increased $6 million or 3% to $212 million.
Sales increased primarily due to higher deliveries of iForce systems to California Highway Patrol partially offset by the completion of a satellite communication upgrade program.
On Slide 8 we see Government Systems first quarter operating earnings decreased 2% to $131 million in 2011 resulting in an operating margin of 20.2%.
The decrease in operating earnings and margin was primarily due to increased employee incentive compensation expense partially offset by lower pension expense and increased sales volume.
In addition operating margins were adversely impacted by a higher mix of customer-funded development sales which typically carry a lower operating margin.
Moving to Slide 9.
We show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the first quarter compared to the end of last year.
In addition to $512 million of long-term debt we had $12 million of short-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.
We ended the quarter with a debt-to-total-capital ratio of 26% a level we are comfortable with and that in combination with our investment-grade credit ratings provides us the ability to fund our growth needs cost-effectively.
The updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of the first quarter is detailed on Slide 10.
During the first quarter we repurchased 2.5 million shares at an average cost of $57.35 per share which brings our total repurchase activities since 2002 to about 60 million shares or $2.8 billion returned to shareholders through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
Now on to our final slide Slide 11.
We provide the details of our updated fiscal year 2011 financial guidance.
We have increased our projected EPS range by $0.10 and now expect full year EPS to be in the range of $3.85 to $4.05.
This assumes a full year effective income tax rate of 28% to 29% compared to our prior expectation of 31% to 32%.
The lower effective income tax rate is primarily attributable to the inclusion of the retroactive R&amp;D tax benefit related to the last nine months of fiscal year 2010.
All other elements of our guidance remain unchanged including our expectation to generate between $650 million and $750 million of operating cash flow which includes the impact of $100 million discretionary pension contribution which we already made in this second quarter.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Clay you touched a little bit on the air transport aftermarket and it sounds like that came in a little bit weaker than you might have anticipated.
I think you did 8% growth there on a pretty easy comp but I think you had previously been forecasting about 10% growth there when you stripped out IFE.
Can you maybe just elaborate a little bit on what you're seeing exactly in the air transport aftermarket and if that 10% forecast still holds for the year? Yes.
First thing David the 10% forecast does hold for the year.
And I think the strength of the aftermarket will begin to be made up beginning this quarter and the next two quarters by the retrofits in spares line while we continue to see some growth in the MRO line.
And I would say the specific color on the quarter is that our first quarter the fourth calendar quarter is typically the least likely for the airlines to bring airplanes down to do those retrofits but that we expect to see the rest of the year because of the extremely high traffic rate that they typically see during the holiday periods.
And so back to the initial part of your question it really wasn't lighter than I expected it.
We thought that we would see a combination of that seasonality.
And if there was any surprise it was the fact that the airlines continued to fly those aircraft at 80% load factors.
At least -- this is without precedent that they've maintained these load factors at this length of time.
And I would tell you in our discussions with the airlines it is their firm intent to continue to do this.
So I think the thing we all have to think about is is the new normal this degree of load factor management.
And if it does as I alluded to here then in the MRO component at least for us we're going to continue to expect to see a relatively subdued growth rate when compared to previous cycles.
Now I think where the retrofits and spares area are concerned all the drivers there suggest we will see good growth.
And in fact the discussions we're having with the airlines and the quotes we're getting in that area give us some good confidence that we're going to see that the remainder of the year.
So that's why I'm confident that we're going to be able to nudge that up into the double-digit range and meet the guidance we've given you.
You spoke about the guidance being able to accommodate the push-out in 87 [Boeing 787] and tanker.
I think before you had in your guidance about $60 million for tanker and I think it was about $25 million in incremental higher sales on 87.
Can you talk about whether you've got baked into the guidance now for each of those and then also talk about what you factored in on the government side in terms of the potential for attempting your resolution for the full year? Absolutely.
Well first of all let's start with the 787.
As I said in my opening remarks this new plan by Boeing essentially confirms the previous guidance I had given you of somewhere between $15 million and $20 million of the $60 million expected in this fiscal year we believe is at risk.
The majority part of that our initial sparing that we would send to the airlines operating the 787 and obviously if that aircraft goes out the door later they don't need those spares.
Now I think that risk is still very variable because if they deliver the aircraft at the beginning of that third calendar quarter which will be our fourth calendar quarter then I think the probability of getting those spares is greater than if they delivered at the end of that quarter as you can imagine.
And so I think that's the biggest variable there.
There's also a small component that is a rate-risk because we had baked in at the beginning of the year when the guidance was intact before the incident in the air that Boeing would actually increase its rate through the year.
I think that's almost certain not to happen now although we're still waiting on Boeing to give us that final rate guidance.
And so I'm comfortable with the $15 million to $20 million of risk that I’ve previously disclosed being the current amount.
But let me reiterate the strength that we had seen in the market across the board I believe will cover that amount.
And so we believe the first quarter gives us higher confidence that that risk is covered.
Now on the KC-X tanker what I would tell you there is that we're not -- even though the current announced date is at February we're not assuming any revenues in this current quarter our second fiscal quarter.
And so that would take out about $20 million of the $60 million that we’d planned in for KC-X.
So we believe that is a pretty certain realized risk that we'll see for the KC-X program.
But again I would say the strength of our first quarter has essentially covered that risk already and now we're looking at a normalized rate for the rest of the year.
Again gives us increasing confidence that we can accommodate the KC-X.
Now the third risk you have brought up there David I think is very valid and that is the risk of the CR.
And I would tell you that that one for us is very difficult to quantify.
And the reason is by the time the CR monies trickle down to us and the Pentagon goes through what is inevitably going to be a series of reprogramming actions and other things they're going to do to accommodate the CR it’s almost impossible for us to tell.
Here's the way I would characterize it: If the CR -- the worst case scenario I think for all of us is if they extend the CR for the balance of the year and there is an implicit cap on new starts or growth in programs.
If that happens we'll probably get some risk out of that.
Our belief right now it's manageable but until we see the specifics of that it’s too hard to quantify.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
The question I have was on the repo action in the quarter obviously a nice step up relative to what you've done in the last couple three years.
And just curious Clay was this indicative of an opportunity or is this more indicative of a stepped increase in what you see as a run rate given the opportunities for deployment elsewhere? Myles this is Patrick.
I'd say it's more of the fact that we had exited the year with a fair amount of cash on our balance sheet.
And so we saw this quarter as an opportunity to deploy some of that cash.
I wouldn't necessarily call it indicative of future activity.
But we're going to remain active in the share repurchase market and I think it’s fair to say that probably at a slightly higher rate than we have over the past couple of years.
And then on the cash flow last year included the pension contribution in 1Q and obviously a little bit more weakness in the working capital conversion this quarter even if you strip out the comp increase.
I'm just curious on the inventory side what you saw this quarter.
I know last year’s 1Q had San Jose shutdown buildup but I'm curious what caused to buildup in this year's first quarter.
We had to put about a $90 million increase in inventory in the first quarter.
I break it into three components.
About a third of it is just typical first quarter build of inventory.
We tend to have -- as you know our sales ramp up over the course of the year and so we tend to build inventory in the first half of the year.
About a third of it related to what we call red label units or developing units on new programs like the 747-8 and the Bombardier global programs.
And about a third of it related to deferred engineering.
As you know we defer some engineering costs when we have contractual guarantees.
So it was really those three pieces that generated the inventory growth that caused some of the cash flow weakness in the quarter.
And your full year expectations for inventory? Well I think we've seen all the growth we're going to see and I think it’s going to come down from where it is today.
What we're expecting is what I’ll call flattish inventory for the year with the exception of the fact that it's going to go up for the deferred engineering.
So there will be some increase there.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
I saw the recent win on the COMAC 919.
I was just wondering relative to the new aircraft commercial programs that had been launched the CSeries MS-21 919 et cetera.
Have pretty much all the avionics awards been made or are there still meaningful additional pieces there that could be awarded where you think you still could continue to gain share? No.
I think all the meaningful pieces have been awarded.
And we're very pleased with how it came out in the 919.
As you recall even though that's come out at a series of events we have the communication the navigation the surveillance packages where we're particularly strong and get the opportunity to reuse some of our initial developments on other programs.
We won the cabin management section which speaks to our strength in information management.
And we were selected to be one of the providers of the in-flight entertainment system.
Remember we're still in the narrow-body in-flight entertainment business and doing quite well thank you.
And we were also selected to work with them on their simulation programs.
So if you look across the board we're very pleased with the content that we won and the ultimate position that we're going to have in the 919.
But I think all of the other ones the Russian program the Japanese program obviously the CSeries as well as the A350.
We have a lot of work going on.
= And I just wanted to ask one more thing.
It's something Clay you had talked about previously.
Where you seem to indicate that if you're looking just strategically about the peak of the cycle you kind of seem to think that commercial margins could be comparable to what we've seen in previous cycles.
Both Boeing and Airbus seem to be signaling that peak aircraft delivery targets this cycle could be higher than what we’ve seen previously.
So assuming that you agree with that thinking about where commercial margins could be at the peak of the cycle shouldn't we be expecting commercial margins to really exceed previous highs on higher volume? And I ask that because you have relatively high incremental margins and that would imply you should be doing really a bit better this cycle than previous ones.
Well first thing I think the way we've always said it is that we're highly confident we can back to what you’ve seen in previous peaks at I'd say a minimum.
I think there's every reason to believe depending on the strength and the length of the cycle that we could move beyond that in our capability.
The balancing item which we've always said is how much research and development that we are having to spend on new programs because a lot of that is self-funded.
And if we are doing that obviously we should be able to point that out to you.
But I think if you look at our incremental flow especially through our commercial products.
And if in fact all of those projections come true and especially when we get the business jet market fully recovered I'm very confident that we can meet or exceed the margin rates you've seen in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Just a quick question on the commercial side of the business.
You had mentioned that you were getting some phone calls from business jet OEMs that suggested that they were gearing up for production rate increases potentially in 2012.
Can you talk a little bit about the product mix on that and whether that is focused on the mid-part of the market upper end lower end? And then secondly the magnitude of the types of increases that you might see there as we move into 2012.
Well relative to the first part of your question it would be improprieties of me to give you any specific feedback on that.
We usually let our OEM customers announce whatever rate increases they choose to make.
But I think giving you that atmosphere again is an important early indicator.
I can put a little cover on the rate.
I don't expect this to be a jailbreak in 2011.
If there are rate increases that occur within the calendar year I think they will be modest.
But we're not projecting that to happen now.
But I think the importance of what I just suggested is that in order for 2012 to be the year of rate increase and what I would say really the beginning of recovery for business jets you're going to have to see order rates improve in 2011 and ultimately have that trickle down to building backlogs and the desire to increase production rates.
Frankly I probably hadn't expected to see any real manifestations of that until we got into our third or fourth quarter.
Seeing it already I think is a very positive sign and early indicator of what we hope will continue to be that strength as we build through the year.
We'll watch that.
We'll let you know what it is.
But the early indicator I think is important.
Just one quick follow-up on the Government side.
You mentioned that margins faced some headwinds this quarter driven by customer-funded R&amp;D.
Can you give us all a sense of what you foresee with regard to customer-funded R&amp;D for the rest of the year and kind of the trends of company-funded R&amp;D in the Government System side? Let me talk to you about the margins for a moment.
Because I think the biggest headwind on the government margin piece was really the incentive compensation.
When we came into the year we said that incentive compensation and pensions were going to about net out for the year.
That's true but what we're seeing is because of the slope of the incentive compensation accrual last year there's about a $15 million headwind in the first half of the year and that headwind’s going to turn into a tailwind in the back half of the year.
So it’ll net out but we're going to see margin pressure in the first half of the year as a result of the net incentive compensation.
That's really the biggest impact with respect to margins on the Government Systems side.
So I think about it -- about a point and a half of margin headwind in Government Systems about a point of that is incentive compensation about half a point is the mix.
And I'd say our mix really is going to change from quarter-to-quarter but isn't going to be significantly different year-over-year in Government Systems.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC.
LLC</strong> Clay I thought I'd kick off on the business jet side again.
You said you saw some very strong demand for business jets aftermarket in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could give some clarity on maybe how much the discretionary retrofit sales or orders were up.
And also which products are showing particular strength? First let me characterize it by saying that the aftermarket across-the-board MRO discretionary aftermarket spares were strong across-the-board.
So this was a widespread recovery in a lot of areas.
Now I'll be quick to say we have the benefit of favorable comps because a year ago it wasn't so good.
And I would say in relative strength the stronger area was in the retrofit market because that was particularly bad a year ago when that was drying up and the biz jet market was so bad.
And so I would say the direct answer to your question is that retrofits and spare parts upgrade section the more what we call discretionary items are the ones that are showing particular strength.
And those that are showing particular strength I think are in the area of aerospace modernization and preferred routing.
Things like WAAS/LPV and GPS navigation and things of that sort are the ones that are showing a lot of strength because there is a direct efficiency of use and efficiency of operation that's coming from those products.
LLC</strong> And then secondly you talked earlier about the impact of load factors and the airlines being reluctant to add older aircraft back.
If this return of the old planes is pushed out to FY '12 what's your view on what the variability could be on your aftermarket forecast for this fiscal '11? Well first of all let me re-characterize that.
I don't think there's a reluctance to bring in new aircraft so much as they're just managing their fleets so they don't have to bring in older aircraft as fast and they're getting benefits in operating costs which we now know that the airlines are focusing a lot of attention on.
It's hard to project exactly what the impact of that is going to be going forward.
Because if you recall the way I would normally shape a recovery Rob is in my used-to-be theory that's now been debunked of the three phases of commercial recovery is not sort of aftermarket MRO-led anymore.
And that typically is a result of favorable comps and these older aircraft coming back in followed by pent-up demand in the more discretionary pieces.
What we're seeing now is there's a smoothing element that is not creating that sort of big double-digit spike in MRO.
Remember after the double-digit spike in MRO then it settles down to pretty much rate of traffic growth.
So if I were projecting the MRO portion of the aftermarket now I would say about rate of traffic growth once we get into stabilization is what you're going to see.
So you're going to get to a point that we would otherwise have gotten too.
But you don't get this pig through the python thing going with MRO.
Now there is still I think a pent-up demand on retrofits and upgrades that weren't done in the past that have to be done to improve the efficiency of the aircraft.
And I think we're now just beginning to see that happen.
And we'll begin to see that roll out for the balance of the year.
So I think that will be sort of steady state.
The piece we'll be missing is that initial upsurge of MRO but once it stabilizes you will get more of a normal rate of recovery.
If you followed all that you probably could piece together that most of the opportunity that we would have seen is already behind us.
And what we see going forward is going to be normal steady-state opportunity.
Remember we all missed the aftermarket recovery for the last almost year.
And I believe that’s all as a result of loan factor utilization and MRO rates not coming in as fast.
I think that day is gone.
I think when we go forward we're going to see retrofits and a steady state of MRO that will give us a nice growth but not the sort of early magnitude growth we've seen in every single previous cycle.
That's my theory.
And your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Pat I just wanted to ask a question about the tax rate change.
You had -- in your opening remarks you called it $0.09 net of employee incentive cost.
And if I just do the math and kind of back in your EPS numbers with the new tax rate it would seem like it should be more than the $0.09 benefit.
And so is there an offset of higher employee incentive cost now built-in to the outlook? Yes there is.
As you know we've set every plan at about 100% payout.
We're now at around 113% and it's due entirely as a result of the change in the tax rate.
So when you net that impact down it nets down to the $0.09 for the quarter.
LLC</strong> And then I guess the other question is just on the 787.
You mentioned that the production rate or your assumptions of what your deliveries will be for the balance of the year isn't changing.
But do you have any sense as to the pace you're going to need to ramp up those deliveries? Well I don't think there will be any ramp-up of those deliveries in this current fiscal year.
My hope is that we will see that ramp up in fiscal year '12.
And that rate will be largely dependent on what Boeing tells us over the next month or so as they get that aircraft certified and now reschedule as a result of this last announcement earlier this week.
So again I don't think there'll be any rate ramp-up at all in our fiscal year current.
But we will most likely see it as they push that relative rate increase out into our fiscal year 2012.
LLC</strong> And then the last question was just on KC-X.
You talked about -- I know it’s only $20 million in the second quarter getting pushed out.
But is there anything that has come in forward that you can point to that’s offset some of the things that have been pushed out? Yes there's two things I mentioned in my opening remarks.
It's probably obliquely but we've been very pleasantly surprised this quarter in DAGRs being delivered at a higher rate than we would have expected when we first put our plan and guidance together.
And also the iForce public safety product going to California Highway Patrol.
They're so pleased with the product that they accelerated some of the subsequent follow-on deliveries for new vehicles.
And so we've got sort of an advanced purchase order and sale of those products that were higher than our plan.
So I think those are two programs actually that we talked about at the beginning of the year that were going to serve as headwinds for the year that we still think will be headwinds for the year.
But the wind is not blowing as strong as we thought it would because the market rate of those two products is better than we expected.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Access 342.
Clay I think you made the heads-up display for the S35 where they'd been talking about issues.
Can you just go into exactly what the problems are? Yes.
It's actually a helmet mounted display George.
And we are the provider of that.
What I would say is there are as there typically are in test programs a number of I'll call it technical hiccups that we've had to deal with that we're working with Lockheed Martin right now.
I would say nothing in there is beyond what we would have expected to see in a technology development program that's pushing the state-of-the-art as rapidly as this is.
This is really a revolutionary helmet with a binocular capability.
No one's ever had a binocular helmet before that has targeting.
And so we're seeing some integration issues with the airplane as well as some I'll call it final tweaking that we're doing to the technology in the helmet itself.
We're very confident right now that we're going to resolve those issues.
So I really don't think they're showstoppers.
In the meantime because of the importance and dependency on this helmet we're working closely with Lockheed Martin to ensure that we're mitigating that risk should anything else happen.
And so we do have sort of I'll call them backup plans and risk mitigation plans that still allow them to operate the aircraft to finish the test program and still have a very capable helmet-mounted display.
You had very strong incremental margins in commercial like 40-plus percent this quarter.
Should I look at that as a sustainable number or is that somewhat biased because you had more business jet growth versus large airplanes? And my assumption being you'd make more on the business jet side.
Well George the way I calculated it it was about 33% between 30% and 35%.
But the answer is yes.
I think the incremental margins will remain strong for the year.
The thing that was actually bringing it down a little bit in the quarter again was this incentive compensation that I talked about earlier.
So yes I would say incremental margins will be at or greater than where they were in the first quarter for the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
You were discussing the puts and takes on the government top line and I think you also said the 6% organic you did was a little better than you thought.
I think many of us would've expected you to do a little better than 2% for the year originally given your positioning.
Are you feeling like there's upside to that number? Or does the growth rate just decelerate through the year as the comps get tougher? I think the answer to that question is directly related to two things we have absolutely no control over.
One is the pace and the structure of the KC-X program once it's announced and put into place.
And the second is the determination of the impact that I spoke earlier about the continuing resolution.
We believe that the rest of our business is performing very well and we're very pleased with the things we expected to happen and the growth areas again that I highlighted.
Things like rotary wing and simulation and the ramp up of these new programs that we won last year.
But I'd say that the direction of the year is largely determined on those two risk items.
And that's why even though we came out of the blocks very strong we're being somewhat prudent about getting ahead of ourselves until we know the determination of those.
My guess is when we sit here a quarter from now we will largely know what the answer to both of those items will be.
And I think we'll be in a much better position to be able to tell you the shape of the year.
But what we're trying to do is we say we still feel confident in the original guidance despite that risk out there as we seen them today.
On the things you can control I guess we're hearing discussion of as the Pentagon tries to save money and be more cost efficient that they're looking more to the hybrid providers and commercial providers that are more cost effective.
Is that something you're feeling or discussing with the customer? Or is it just muddled by the CR and these other moving pieces? Well I think that's a general direction that the Pentagon will go in regardless.
I think they’d made it very clear in this administration that things like fixed-price programs pushing more risk to the contractors is a policy direction that they're going to go in.
And as I've said in the past I think that plays to a strength of our company because we are used to doing that.
And we are comfortable in those areas and our ability to manage that risk.
Now I think it would be premature to say we're seeing some great C change out there as a result of that because that was announced over a year ago.
And you are seeing some indicators of programs that they're beginning to shape and move in those directions.
And we'll participate where we can and hopefully we'll participate successfully.
But what I would say it's more an atmosphere that plays to our strength as opposed to pointing to three or four proof points at the current time.
On the segment operating margins you had previously said high-teens for commercial and I guess flattish for Government.
Are those still the targets we should be looking at? The Government side I guess was a little light but you discussed why it should get better in the back half.
Yes that guidance is unchanged.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Nadol with JPMorgan.
Could you provide where we are right now on contract mix in Government? I know that was half a point of the margin pressure but just wondering where we were in the quarter and then where you expect to be for the year.
Joe what I would say is it’s probably -- in any quarter there are a couple of points shift here or there.
And I’d say for the -- let me talk about it for the year.
For the year I don't anticipate the mix changing significantly.
We always talked about 50% commercial terms 30% fixed-price on government terms and 20% cost plus.
I think that's good for the year.
Now it was probably a couple of points higher on the cost plus in this first quarter and that was what was creating the margin headwind.
And that's the ramp up of primarily CRIIS and SLC3S is coming in there Joe.
And then Clay on JTRS on the GMR limited user tests that we've been talking about.
I think last quarter you talked about maybe some opportunity for improvement in the schedule.
I saw something about this happening in this coming summer now.
What's the update there? And what's your reaction to -- there's been some talk about Nunn-McCurdy? Well I don't control the Nunn-McCurdy thing.
I've heard the same talk you have and that's up to the Pentagon to make that determination because they see the total program at a much different scale than I do.
For example all the government costs all the other contractor costs that we roll up to them.
And so I really can't add any color on what if anything will ultimately be determined there.
As you know that's probably a function not of necessarily the cost growth in the program but of the volume and quantities that they choose to buy.
I know that characteristics of what go into it and then if they pull the trigger or lever then whatever happens happens.
Relative to the programming against my expectations it's kind of rolling out like we thought it would be.
Remember that we had sort of two things going.
We had the normal decision point cycles that the Pentagon goes through to get to decision point C which is low rate initial production.
And then laid over the top of this we had the Brigade Combat Team Modernization programs that were using JTRS as a part of that component.
Many of you know that since the acquisition board met a couple of weeks ago approved the next tranche of Brigade Combat Team Modernization which authorized the JTRS GMR build which is what we had in the plan for the year.
So I'm still very confident in our ability to meet the JTRS component of our plan.
And now that government has basically validated that purchase if you will of what it takes for us to meet that plan.
What I had alluded to is that there was at least some probability that the government would move ahead with the testing done on Brigade Combat Team that allowed it to get to that successful conclusion and use that as a surrogate for limited user test.
It now appears they will not do that.
And that limited user tests will in fact occur this summer.
Now again the reason it was pushed back to the summer is because the assets the test ranges are being prioritized around Brigade Combat Team Modernization.
And therefore they had to delay because of that prioritization the LUT testing until this summer.
So we expect the LUT testing now to be this summer and the decision point C to be toward the end of calendar year 2011 to go into the formal low rate initial production.
Now interestingly enough we're producing radios.
We're delivering radios to the customer just in a different contractual element which is Brigade Combat Team Modernization.
So we're getting plenty of opportunity to show we're moving into production plenty of opportunity to show the utility of that capability.
And whatever happens from here I think we're building on that experience if you will to be able to meet whatever the customers’ needs.
Overarching all of that is that encouraging statement that Secretary Gates made to reinforce the priority of Army and network modernization.
And we believe we will be squarely in the middle of that frankly with a lot of pros.
This Nunn-McCurdy law has been sort of a paper tiger for many many years and we've never really seen anything killed that I can remember.
It's always recertified.
We have a tough budget environment here.
And I know you don't control this whole process and as you pointed out this is more volume than anything else volume is coming down.
But when you look at this given your conversations with your customer do you feel highly confident that is going to get recertified if it does indeed breach Nunn-McCurdy.
Well as you said very well Joe history is on our side.
Because by the time you get to this point you need the capability and I feel as confident as I can be that if they get to that point that they will structure the program in a way that they can and will recertify it because the need is clear.
And the priority within the Pentagon is clear.
So we're both speculating and talking hypotheticals but at least as you say history is on our side here.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
It's actually Joe Campbell and Carter Copeland.
Just a quick question on company-funded R&amp;D following the annual disclosure in the last K.
Clay it looks like the commercial R&amp;D has come down about $70 million from its prior peak.
And obviously you've finished a lot of projects following big competitive wins and share gains.
I wonder if you look out over the next couple of years should we be thinking that for Commercial Systems company-funded this is a new normal? Or could we see R&amp;D continue to trend down as programs tail off or even bounce back? Can you help us think about that? First of all I would say in the quarter that the company-funded R&amp;D was flat.
But for the year we expect it to grow.
And that is not counting obviously the deferred that Patrick talked about earlier.
If you add that deferred piece with the expense piece then it actually grows significantly over the year and has been growing.
And depending on whether you want to look at one piece or the other piece but I would say especially the company-discretionary piece I would not expect that to decline.
Because our success rate and the programs that we're working on continue at pace.
We have 10 business jet platforms that we're working on that we'll deliver over the next five years.
We have the A350 that we're working on the CSeries that we're working on.
We have the programs that we've won internationally in China in Japan in Russia in Brazil some of which are deferred some of which included customer funding but some of which also will be supplemented by internal funding.
So no I don't think I would anticipate that number to go down and that you're going to get a sort of R&amp;D windfall over the years.
We're going to continue to invest in these new programs.
We're going to try to win some more to build on that market strength we've enjoyed over the last five years.
And in terms of the trend over let's say the last couple of years where we saw Commercial Systems company funded coming down from almost 300 down to about 230 I would say that was as much a function of the market as anything else as a result of pretty substantial decline in sales we took pretty aggressive actions to limit the amount of research and development.
Plus there were some programs that got pushed out particularly on the biz jet side that provided that opportunity to reduce R&amp;D.
We're seeing that trend start to shift in the other direction to Clay's point.
So would you say it's fair to say it's going to trend upward both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of sales? I would say definitely on an absolute basis.
I think as a percentage of sales it's going to depend a lot on a lot of moving parts that we can't predict right now but I would definitely expect it to increase on an absolute basis.
And one follow-up and this is just related to the change in disclosure on wide-body IFE.
I don't know if you’ve put it in anywhere formally but last year's full year number for the amount of services that were moved from aftermarket into what is now the all-in wide-body IFE number.
Do you have that number Patrick? I do I'm just trying to find it here.
I think it's about $90 million to $100 million.
Yes.
Our total for the year for wide-body IFE is going to be $110 million.
I think that's about $80 million of service and about $30 million of product and systems.
And how does that compare to the prior year? Down about 20% in total.
Your next question comes from the line of Ronald Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
This is actually Kristine Liwag calling in for Ron.
Is there an opportunity for you on the F-16 for upgrades? And if so how much upside could the program provide? I am not aware of any major program that we have or are pursuing specific to the F-16 no.
Now we have products on the F-16 but again as compared to some of the other programs that we talk about where we're either pursuing or have upgrade programs I do not believe there's one on F-16.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
First just going back to JTRS.
Since quantities are likely to come down and it looks like they were already buying fewer of this network integration kit which means probably a smaller buy on GMR but perhaps higher on HMS.
How does the mix shift affect you? Well it depends on how many of one and how many of the other.
But what I would say is if there is a mix shift it's most likely to shift to the man-pack element which is the element that we are more involved in than the soldier handheld.
And so that would be favorable to us if they increased the numbers of man packs.
But at this point in time Rob it really is not possible because they’ve not made a decision of what the quantity is going to be one vice the other.
But the good news for us is we've got a foot in each camp.
So hopefully if you rob Peter you pay Paul.
And I know you've been asked this before but maybe it's helpful for everyone if you could just refresh us on the current run rate on JTRS and what the potentials on the program of record would be.
Let me start with current run rate.
We're at about $40 million for this year and that compares to about I would say $60 million last year.
So it's still at a fairly low level for us.
In terms of size and the entire opportunity I think we've sized it at roughly $5 billion of the program but...
That's a 20-year number.
Yes but that's a very long-term number.
Clay you've already framed very well the risk in 787 and tanker push out continuing resolution and so on.
Can you talk about some of the upside potentially from your guidance where -- earlier you referenced a position of opportunity assuming those other programs hold where they are now.
So where might the upside leverage points be? Well I think the ubiquity of our products across all the programs are what help us.
We're pursuing a lot of international programs as all defense contractors are and we think we have some very good opportunities in the Middle East and in India.
I would mention specifically communication programs in India and I would mention the F-15 sale in Saudi Arabia both of which we have a lot of content on are I'd say large programs of opportunity.
The rest of them are the typical things that we do either communication programs or aircraft or helicopter upgrades.
Of which there are a lot of those happening and most especially happening as budgets are reworked from let's say new build or modernization efforts and have to go into now retrofit and upgrade efforts.
We really like our position in that actually as budgets come down.
F-18 is a perfect example.
While they're waiting for the F-35 they're going to buy more F-18s.
And we have equivalent content on F-18.
So I think those are areas that we see most of the maybe in some cases ones or twosie opportunity but that's it.
And then the other ones I've mentioned are our existing product line like DAGR and others as we see particular strength there.
Simulation is another area where we're enjoying quite a bit of activity right now.
So I think all of those we'll get a little bit of something that is helping us as these funds shift and as we become more successful at looking at opportunities.
And your final question from comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Actually Clay you were starting on part of the question that I wanted to know which was just to review the competitive opportunities in the sense beyond tanker including international.
So you touched on international.
How about what you see in domestic ahead? Well we're bidding on the KC-10 rebid and so that's a big opportunity that dropped in that frankly was not in our plan or guidance.
If we happen to be successful there I think that would be an indicator.
We're also bidding on the MIDS-J next tranche of Data Link a program that looked good.
Nett Warrior is one that we're looking at that would get us in a whole new market.
We're looking at new opportunities to use especially the flight control capability we get from Athena's.
We're looking at the next generation of unmanned aerial vehicles.
So I think all of those are areas that we're putting a lot of emphasis to continue the growth path that we projected for this business.
But a lot of international opportunities you talked about like with the Saudis we need to see that contract signed.
Is that going to be do you think an '11 event? Or is that heading more into 2012? Well it kind of depends on when the contract is signed as you say there.
My guess is if it's an '11 event it'll be at the tail end of it Heidi.
And Patrick just to refine and I know you've been asked a bunch of times but I just want to make sure I have it clear in my head.
Are you saying that -- it sounds like you're saying that 1Q marks kind of the low point for Government Systems margins and that while the mix of development versus mature isn't as much headwind throughout the year but also you're including a tanker win assumption in your guidance.
So can you give us a little bit of sense of how much margin headwind should we be considering if you win tanker? Tankers I think is about a point and a half of sales for Government Systems so it's a pretty small piece of the total for the year.
So I would say that that program in it of itself doesn't provide much headwind.
And I would confirm your speculation that first quarter should represent the bottom of the Government Systems margins.
And then Clay you've talked about how the mainline after market recovery you think is still to come through this year business jet recovery is occurring faster than expected.
You've got a pretty good idea on their visibility on the Defense sales and yet you didn't raise guidance this year; you just added the tax effect into your guidance.
So can tell us about just again dot the Is on the major challenges that are restraining you from raising a guidance a bit bolder? Absolutely.
First thing it's the first quarter of our fiscal year.
We have a long way to go.
This is a marathon not a sprint.
Second thing there are three major risks that I've got to be very clear in outlining that I have absolutely no control on the manifestation of them.
It is 787 whether they get that thing done and out the door.
It is KC-X whether we get it awarded and whether or not it's protested.
And then you’ve got the continuing resolution.
Those are the three big elephants in the room.
And frankly with the amount of time we have left even though I believe the indicators are good until we have a better view of how those things are ultimately going to develop and they can go in a lot of different directions it would be improprieties of me I think to get out in front of myself.
As I said I think we're going to have a lot better visibility on probably most if not all of those at the end of this current quarter.
And then we'll determine how we feel at that time.
But the way I'd put it is so far so good on what I can control and what I see.
But those are the risks out in front of us.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We expect to file our Form 10-Q on January 28 so please review that document for additional disclosures.
Thank you for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
This concludes Rockwell Collins First Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and management introduction I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Darla and good morning everyone.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today at our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties included but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
Well we're at the mid-point of our fiscal year and I'm pleased to report another quarter of solid results.
Our revenues grew about 7% with both business segments posting sales increases above our full year growth target.
The balance of our business has allowed us to take advantage of the favorable environment in our Commercial market while still posting positive revenue growth in the more challenging Government sector.
We reported strong operating earnings growth as our total operating margins expanded by 60 basis points demonstrating the operating leverage of our business.
This was led by Commercial Systems which reported an increase in operating earnings of 33% on 13% sales growth.
Now if you exclude the impact of a one-time net tax benefit that we realized last year the second quarter earnings per share increased by 14%.
Now one factor driving our growth is the success we've talked about often in capturing Commercial market share gain.
And we're just beginning to realize the benefits of several program wins over the past couple of years such as the Boeing 787 the Cessna CJ-4 and the Bombardier Global 5000 and Global Express.
So far this year we've posted 16% growth in total OEM revenue driven predominantly on the strength of these market share gains.
This is especially evident in the business in regional jet market where sales have grown 15% while OEM aircraft deliveries have been relatively flat compared to last year.
Looking ahead we'll have more new and updated aircraft entering service providing an annuity of incremental revenue growth for some time to come.
Another strength of our business is how we're positioned to capitalize on areas that are growing faster than the overall market.
For example the Government rotary wing sector continues to provide above-market growth for us as we reported a 44% increase in sales this quarter from the continued expansion of our Common Avionics Architecture System or CAAS cockpit.
The award of the new KC-46 [KC-46A] air refueling tanker to Boeing will enable accelerating revenues in another high-priority growth segment.
And we're looking forward to an announcement very soon on the avionics selection for Brazil's new KC-390 tanker transport aircraft being built by Embraer.
Now we've been working for some time on winning this important program that would strengthen our position in one of the faster growing military markets.
In Commercial markets our investments in key retrofit capabilities including LCD displays cabin electronics GPS-enabled approach capability and other enhancements to improve fuel efficiency have given us good opportunities as airline and business jet discretionary funding has become more available.
This quarter we had a total aftermarket growth of 15% which included a robust 25% growth in Retrofit and Spares sales.
Past investments in R&amp;D are beginning to pay dividends in both markets by having the capabilities our customers need in an era where cost savings are more important than ever.
That said we would not be able to take full advantage of these opportunities without a focus on program execution.
In our air transport market we've fully certified all of our products on the Boeing 787 aircraft.
We've also recently completed successful acceptance testing in preparation for lab unit deliveries of the information management onboard package of the A350 program.
This is a significant milestone for the program due to the fact that we have doubled the scope of effort from our original offering while still adhering to the program schedule.
Another example is our ARC-210 Gen5 radio which recently received NSA certification enabling it to comply with their cryptographic modernization initiative.
And just yesterday we delivered our first production ARC-210 Gen5 radio to the military.
These are 2 important milestones for our software-defined airborne radio as it is a form and fit replacement for existing ARC-210 radios which are currently installed on a 182 different platform types worldwide.
Finally I'm very pleased to announce that yesterday we received the last of our approvals from the FAA for hardware and software certification of our new Pro Line Fusion business jet flight deck.
Our new flight deck is set to launch in the market on the Bombardier Global platforms and we're currently working to apply Pro Line Fusion flight deck to 11 additional platforms across 4 different aircraft manufacturers.
This is a major event for this product line and for our company.
Now while we feel good about marketing conditions presently and are raising our EPS guidance for the year by $0.05 there's still a few risk factors that we're tracking for the remainder of the year.
The first is the lingering fallout from operating with the Defense budget under a continuing resolution for 6 months which still could have an impact on the second half of the fiscal year.
And we're working closely with the Pentagon to manage through that issue.
Additionally we're estimating that the supply chain disruptions from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan could potentially impact some sales predominantly in our Commercial business for the fourth quarter.
However with the improved outlook in the Commercial market coupled with the solid performance of our business in the first half of the year I believe at this time those risks are manageable.
So with that I'd like to turn the call now over to Patrick for the financial detail.
Pat? Thanks Clay.
And good morning to everyone as well.
Let's get started by first reviewing our results for the total company as shown on Slides 3 and 4.
Total company sales for the quarter came in at $1.22 billion an increase of 7% from last year.
Net income and earnings per share increased 1% and 3% respectively.
This is primarily due to the higher sales volume partially offset by the unfavorable impact of a higher effective tax rate.
Our effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2011 was 31.5% which is 700 basis points higher than the rate for the second quarter 2010.
This rate increase was primarily due to the absence of a 2010 adjustment resulting from the completion of an IRS examination partially offset by differences in the availability of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit.
If you exclude the $15 million or $0.09 benefit of these 2 items our net income increased by 13% and earnings per share increased by 14%.
Turning to Slides 5 and 6 we take a look at the second quarter results of our Commercial Systems business which reported revenues of $507 million up 13% from $449 million in 2010.
Sales related to aircraft OEM has increased $37 million or 16% to $270 million driven by higher sales of selectable equipment for Boeing 737 aircraft and higher deliveries for the Boeing 787 Bombardier Global and Cessna CJ-4 platforms.
We also saw continued increases in deliveries of our Single-aisle Inflight Entertainment dPaves products.
Aftermarket sales increased $27 million or 15% to $208 million driven by a 25% increase in Retrofit and Spares a 9% higher service and support sales.
Wide-body Inflight Entertainment Products and Service sales declined by $6 million.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased 33% to $92 million or 18.1% of sales for the 3 months ended March 31 2011 compared to operating earnings of $69 million 15.4% of sales in the second quarter of 2010.
The increase in earnings and operating margin was primarily due to higher sales volume partially offset by higher selling general and administrative expense and an increase in employee incentive compensation and company-funded R&amp;D costs.
On Slide 7 our Government Systems business achieved a revenue increase 3% from $693 million in 2010 to $716 million in 2011.
Airborne Solutions sales increased $42 million or 9% to $497 million.
This growth resulted from higher deliveries for rotary wing aircraft increased revenue from the CRIIS Program and higher deliveries for the  E-6 aircraft upgrade program.
This growth was partially offset by lower sales on the KC-135 GATM deliveries.
Surface Solutions sales decreased $19 million or 8% to $219 million.
Sales decreased primarily from the completion of a satellite communication upgrade program last year and fewer deliveries of iForce systems to the California Highway Patrol partially offset by higher sales on a program to provide transportable cellular communications in Afghanistan.
You may recall that deliveries of our iForce systems was a favorable causal [ph] in the first quarter and is now a headwind for us in this quarter.
We began deliveries in the second quarter of 2010 with our peak revenue quarter of about $40 million in sales in the third quarter of 2010.
I expect little if any revenue in the third quarter of FY '11 from iForce systems as we are currently in the transition from deliveries under the original contract to follow-on options.
As a result we expect to see no growth in Government Systems revenue for the third quarter.
In fact we'll likely see a year-over-year decline.
Slide 8 shows Government Systems second quarter operating earnings which were flat at $150 million.
Operating margins have declined from 21.6% to 20.9% resulting from higher employee incentive compensation costs partially offset by the earnings on higher revenues.
On Slide 9 we have our 6-month year-to-date total company financial results for sales EPS net income and operating cash flow.
Through the first half of the year our sales have increased by 8% while earnings per share has increased 14%.
The strength in the operating leverage of our business is evident by our ability to expand net income as a percentage of sales by 50 basis points to 12.9% of sales.
Our year-to-date operating cash flow has decreased $153 million and is down to $127 million in 2011.
The primary drivers of the decrease in cash flow include: the planned payment of employee incentive compensation which we did not have in the prior year; and the increase in post-production engineering costs.
Our current expectation unchanged from guidance provided at the beginning of the year is for an increase of about $110 million this year in these engineering costs.
Moving to Slide 10 we show the status of our capital structure.
As of the end of the second quarter we had $509 million in long-term debt outstanding as compared to $525 million at the end of fiscal 2010.
We had debt to total capital ratio of 25% at the end of the second quarter a level we are comfortable with and that in combination with our investment-grade credit rating provides us the ability to fund our growth needs cost-effectively.
Now earlier this week we signed what is in effect a loan agreement with Bombardier and I wanted to take a quick minute to provide some additional color on the transaction.
We have a long history with Bombardier as a key customer and trusted partner and over the past 5 years we have been working together through joint development milestones on the new Bombardier Global family of aircraft.
As Clay mentioned earlier we were notified yesterday that we have received the remaining FAA approvals necessary for our Pro Line Fusion flight deck.
Unfortunately delays in our avionics development have been a contributing factor in missing some program milestones.
Nevertheless we have worked with Bombardier to keep the overall program on schedule and it is our understanding the entry into service for the aircraft is still on the schedule that Bombardier has communicated.
However as a result of development delays Bombardier is experiencing delays in receiving some customer advance payments.
To help Bombardier bridge this short period between now and aircraft certification which triggers the expected customer payments we have agreed to provide a short-term interest-free cash payment of $237 million to partially offset those delays.
The 60-day repayment terms were triggered by the completion of our FAA flight deck certification so I expect to have the cash back in-house before the end of our fiscal third quarter.
If you turn to Slide 11 we've provided details related to the updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of the second quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased 1 million shares of stock at an average cost of $63.68 per share.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 61 million shares or $2.9 billion returned to shareholders through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
Now on to our final slide Slide 12 where we provide the details of our updated fiscal year 2011 financial guidance.
Based on the strength of the results of our business through the first 6 months of the year improved market outlook we have increased our earnings per share guidance for the fiscal year by $0.05 to the range of $3.90 to $4.10.
All other components of our guidance remain unchanged.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions]  Operator we're now ready to open the line.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> Could you tell us how much was -- what were your incentive comp accruals in the quarter? We accrued probably about between $25 million and $30 million.
$31 million I'm sorry.
LLC</strong> $31 million.
So it's actually up a bit from the first quarter? It is up a little bit from the first quarter and that's a function of the fact that we raised guidance by a nickel.
LLC</strong> Got it okay.
And so for the full year now it's going to be what about a $118 million something like that? Yes it's somewhere around there.
LLC</strong> And then maybe give us a little color on this Bombardier loan agreement.
When do you write your check? When do you expect to get the money back? And do you have any other comparable arrangements either where you write checks or get checks with any of your other customers? No I would say this is a pretty unusual transaction.
We actually sent the funds to Bombardier yesterday.
And given the fact that we got certification on the systems yesterday as well we expect to get payment by no later than June 20 of this year.
And this is really a one-time pretty unusual transaction for us.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And lastly are you seeing -- you didn't change your Government guidance and yet the environment looked substantially more difficult.
Could you give us some color on what are the areas or programs where you have the greatest concerns? Well Cai first of all if you look at the performance of our Government business year-to-date we're actually very pleased.
They're up 4% for the year and we're guiding 2% for the balance of the year.
As Pat clearly pointed out because of some lumpiness in the iForce deliveries which are fairly substantial sales we're probably going to see a flat to slightly declining third quarter.
And then the big risk hanging over our head as we move through the balance of the year is whether or not the Continuing Resolution will resolve itself by all the contracting mechanisms they have to put in place at the Pentagon that were very inefficient in the first half.
And that's just a risk factor.
We're going to work very hard to get all that money and those contracts obligated but that could have an issue.
But what I would say is we feel good about the first half of the year.
We're concerned about the second half of the year and so that's why we have not changed our guidance either up or down.
We're certainly within the range results.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Question is on the Commercial aero margins.
It looks like your incrementals were about 40%.
And I was wondering maybe Pat if you could just give a little color on the various pieces that went into that.
How much -- what were the items that impacted it I guess some of the comp R&amp;D et cetera? And what do the underlying incrementals look like? Joe I want to say that if you strip out the incremental research and development and incremental compensation the year-over-year incremental is a little bit over 50%.
Okay that's helpful.
And feel better.
Clay any more color you can provide on Japan and specifically what you're seeing? You said a fourth quarter impact.
How long do you think this might last into FY '12? I'd be glad to do that.
I think every company that's in electronics business is probably following the events in Japan very closely.
And we have a team that I think has done just extraordinary work in trying to work through an infinite variety of issues with a lot of suppliers over there.
Let me say this: today I'm much more comfortable in where we are than I would have been let's say a month or so ago when conditions were more ambiguous.
Today what I can say is we're down to really one supplier that we're concerned about and that supplier was in the north part of the country is expected to be back online probably within the month.
And if they meet that schedule I think we can work our way through these risks.
But there is a concern there.
Almost all of the concern I have are for products that would go into our Commercial business.
And the reason I say fourth quarter is because we had internally enough safety stock and then we've been able to go into the supply chains with distributors and quick action to get additional inventory.
In fact our inventory is building up consciously to try to offset what these residual effects would be that we believe will have no effect through the third quarter.
It's restoration of the supply chain from the supplier that has us concerned about potential risk in the fourth quarter.
I would size that risk Joe at about $20 million or less of revenue if I had to call it today.
But let me be very quick to say that that number has been moving around a lot and generally drifting down.
And so that's kind of what I see for the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Clay last quarter you mentioned the business jet OEs ringing you up talking about production rate increases towards I think the end of this year into next year.
Can you give some color kind of how those conversations have progressed? Have they picked up pulled back at all?  Just some color on potential recovery on the business jet side  I would say it's pretty much the same as what we talked about last quarter David.
I think -- if you listened to the Textron call yesterday Scott made it clear that while they really haven't started any increases they are getting more calls.
They are seeing more net orders coming in.
And I think that is actually a fairly positive sign that the interest is drifting down to the low end of the business jet market.
My sense is at the high and medium end it stays about like it what it was.
It's pretty good.
And so the net orders have increased at Bombardier and they've publicly disclosed that.
And I think the trends are generally what we said before: more corporate profitability better business environment in general is leading to more interest which we think toward the end of the year will convert to more net orders which set us up for 2012.
Okay.
And on Pro Line Fusion can you just give some -- maybe a little bit more detail on what's caused some of the issues there? I think that's the first we're hearing about this.
And also at this point you know obviously your business jet OE business is certainly outstripping the market growth rate.
Is Pro Line Fusion and Global Express contributing to that at all at this point or have you actually been shipping units into Bombardier despite the issues? Absolutely.
The big uppers for this year that gave us the majority of that mid-teens growth have been a full year Cessna CJ-4 and then the  Bombardier Global family 5000 and Global Express.
As you know they're in the build process.
We have been shipping equipment there.
And what we received basically from the FAA is the completion of the paperwork.
The actual product and the equipment has been in it's what we call back label or certifiable form for some time and now we've gotten the validation if you will from the FAA that it's good to go.
They call it a technical standard order or TSO.
Now that equipment will be embedded into the aircraft and Bombardier then now moves toward what they call a type certificate of the full airplane with our avionics on it.
And so If you will our sort of piece is done to certify the avionics equipment now Bombardier has to complete the certification and completion of the aircraft.
And as we said in our  opening dialogue despite the fact that we ran into some issues in development which that happens when you're developing a whole new avionics system we believe that the aircraft itself is on schedule for delivery to their end customers as Bombardier has previously talked.
And so in essence what we've done is worked with them to make up that time and to get these certifications done.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
This is actually John Raviv in for Jason.
Clay you've been really good in the past few quarters talking about airline profitability and airline behavior around this cycle versus previous cycles especially with regard to a delayed aftermarket.
I was wondering if you could provide just sort of your updated narrative on that and what you're seeing in the market not only this quarter year-on-year but throughout the balance of the year.
Sure.
First thing I think that the general shape of the recovery is pretty much -- very much in line with what I talked about last quarter.
It is a very unusual recovery in that it doesn't go through the 3 sequential phases of first MRO and then retrofits and spares aftermarket recovery and then OEM recovery.
It's as if all of them are happening simultaneously.
And if you look at our numbers this quarter they continue to support that.
Our basic MRO is up 9% and I think that's generally in line with traffic trends perhaps a little -- just a touch higher than normal but not the double digit we've all been thinking we're going to see for the last year.
And I think it's going to remain fairly stable right there.
The Retrofit and Spares though are up 25%.
So all that pent-up demand and now the discretionary upgrades that have been avoided for the last 2 years are coming back into the market.
Against good comparables yes but also that's where the money is because many of these are efficiency upgrades and they can operate the business more effectively.
Indicative of that if we look at year-to-date traffic being up roughly 5% in-warranty aircraft coming in the fleet have grown about 9%.
Out-of-warranty aircraft have grown about 3%.
And I think that's a good indicator of that trend I talked to you before where because OEM rates did not decline more new airplanes are coming in they're more fuel efficient they're in warranty and require less maintenance costs and so the airlines are running it more efficiently.
And then that of course is what's driving the OEM rates up higher because the macro dynamics of both growth combined with efficiency make that a very attractive alternative to managing their fleets.
So basically a reiteration of this dynamic that I talked about last quarter.
And do you see any lag effect from high oil prices persisting or like the...
No not yet because I think oil prices at the range they are right now basically support that thesis that I just laid out there.
I think as we're watching it I think oil around $110 to maybe $120 will maintain where we are.
I think if oil drops significantly that could make older aircraft somewhat more attractive.
I think if oil goes to $150 that's just not good for anybody in the economy and therefore we have to worry about the general macro economy even more than the cost that the airlines will incur.
So I think we're in a sustainable range not a great range but sustainable but I'd be wary if oil goes significantly higher from here.
Your next question comes from the line of Troy Lahr with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> In the press release you talked about higher deliveries on 787.
Are those starting to run pretty steady now or is it still kind of stops and starts? Well what I would say is it's remaining steady now.
When we gave our original guidance we would have suggested that that rate was going to ramp up toward the end of our fiscal year.
Now we don't expect that to happen.
We think it will sustain itself at the current roughly 2-per-month ship sets that we're delivering to right now until Boeing gets the airplane certified starts the initial deliveries and then begins the ramp up in their production rate which they're focused a great deal on right now and which we could expect to start happening sometime next year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then just lastly on the sales that you're seeing discretionary spending that was pretty healthy.
Is that pretty much spread out globally or is that mostly some international customers or are the U.S.
guys starting to spend some? Can you just break that down a little bit geographically? I think it's pretty much globally especially where there are aircraft that are -- I mean they're still operating some old aircraft.
And what we're seeing is that efficiency upgrades are the ones in very high demand across the globe; being able to use GPS-landing as an example and preferred routing that they get from some of this equipment.
So I would say it's pretty much across the board.
Your next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Clay a couple of questions for you.
Can you discuss what you're seeing in terms of the contract in terms of the Government Systems? Are you seeing any change there? Heidi we really aren't.
Again for us it's a little deceptive because we're used to dealing with fixed-price contracts.
And a fixed-price contract is a fixed-price contract.
And so I don't see those terms changing.
I do see a distinct mood in some of the Government customers we've talked to of ensuring that we're moving to fixed-price contracting.
So I think that is a definite trend within the department that has gotten through the chain.
But beyond that I really don't.
I think there's always good strong negotiations going on when we get into these things but I don't see any sea changes right now.
And with respect to the guidance you talked pretty bullishly about what you're seeing in Commercial and you raised estimates $0.05 for the year but you highlighted kind of 2 concerns that you're seeing the CR and Japan.
It looks like Japan the risk is about $0.02 if I'm using the math correctly.
Can you give us a feel about how much the Continuing Resolution could affect Collins? I mean is there sort of a month-to-month impact as we see this stretch out or does it accelerate as we go throughout the rest of the year? Well the way I put it is we will know more as we go out the rest of the year.
The circumstance as it is right now is that the Pentagon was semi-frozen for 6 months while they didn't have the budgeting authority on some programs and some phases they were moving into.
Now that that sort of dark specter has been relieved from the contracting agencies they now have 6 months to do work that otherwise they would have had 12 months to do.
The risk is can we get it all done? We're on point.
I think they're working as hard as they can.
The risk and the ambiguity Heidi is will we get it all done.
And I think as we move through the year like next quarter we'll have an even better sense of whether we've got as much done as we hope to by that time and we could probably get more color to it.
But as we sit here right now it's just a lot of work to do to move from contracting to orders to conversion to sales of what we're expecting in the year.
And again we have a lot of short-cycle stuff that we typically deliver each year that's not long-term contracts and that's what we're looking at.
And one final question.
Pat for you inventories rose in the second quarter.
How should we be thinking about inventories as we think about the back half of the year and as the production rate ramps both for the OEs and anticipating the RJs  and the business jet guys? Yes Heidi the inventory rise year-to-date the way I'd characterize it is about half of it relates to deferred engineering costs which are going to continue to rise over the course of the year.
We're projecting about a $110 million increase.
The other half is related to I would say probably 3 things: one is we have a seasonal build-up of inventory; second we've seen less progress payments particularly on the Government Systems side of the business; and then we've got some of these red label builds for the Bombardier program the 787 program the 747-8.
What I expect is we'll see that half of the inventory build start coming down here in the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
So you're still going to see probably year-over-year a $100 million to $120 million increase in inventory but it would be mostly related to those deferred engineering costs.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Access 342.
Clay either for you or Patrick but OE sales have grown 17% in the first half your guidance is for 10% growth for the year.
So what causes the second half to grow more slowly? Well the one risk we're worried about is Japan.
Because as I had mentioned before George that is a risk factor that we're watching.
If we're able to abate that risk I would expect that we will grow faster than what the guidance says.
And just one for Patrick.
The Commercial margin declined slightly sequentially despite the revenue's up 10% sequentially.
So is there any kind of issues that would have caused that? Instinctively I would've thought it would've been a little bit higher than the first quarter.
Yes George we typically don't look at margins sequentially just because there's a lot of -- for example some of the costs for holidays tend to be different quarter-to-quarter.
But if I look at it sequentially and adjust for the $7 million incentive reserve adjustment we made last quarter the sequential incrementals are about 40% which is in line with what I would have expected.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Pat can you just -- nothing changed in terms of the revenue outlook margin outlook or anything of that sort but yet you're adding about $0.05 to the outlook.
Is that all the share count from the buyback activity we've seen year-to-date? No the way that I describe it is that we're probably biasing those guidance toward the upper end of the ranges.
So we're seeing a little bit better margin performance a little bit better sales performance and that's leading to the $0.05.
It's really -- it's got nothing to do with the share repurchases.
That's been pretty much according to plan.
LLC</strong> And then just back on the aftermarket I guess both in the Commercial Systems and the business jet.
If I look at Commercial Systems it was up about $7 million I guess from December to March.
And business jet seems like it's been running $90 million to $100 million since the June quarter of last year.
I mean is there anything that moves these from these current ranges where they are in the dollar amounts or should they be fairly stable in dollars kind of in June and September as we go forward? I would expect to be up a little bit sequentially largely due to the continued deliveries on business jets for some of our market share gains.
LLC</strong> And then we talked a lot about Government Systems and the U.S.
market.
Can you talk a little bit more about what's happening in the international market and what your plans or target in terms of sales there and opportunities? Well we haven't given specific targets Sam but we have alluded a number of times to what we think are very good opportunities in areas of the world where the defense budgets will be growing for in some cases obvious reasons.
Speaking there of Middle East Brazil India are 3 areas of particular interest.
And as a result of that we've begun positioning in places with new offices in every one of those areas.
We've also identified opportunities we're talking about in that area.
In the Middle East and of course the big one is the Saudi sale that is in front of us and that we'll begin to see revenue fairly soon actually on that as we start doing pre-production work with Boeing on for example  the F-15.
In Brazil I mentioned in my opening remarks that KC-390 is a big one for us and we're hopeful and hope that's going to be announced pretty soon and that would really strengthen our position in Brazil beyond what we already are pretty good in the Commercial market.
And then in India I just came back from there 3 weeks ago it's just ripe with opportunities but you've got to know how the system works there.
Some opportunities we're already seeing as we go in with Western Aircraft and then we're bidding on several programs right now that when they come to fruition toward the end of the year we'll know how successful we're going to be.
So those are 3 areas specifically and then there's a scattering of other things that we've begun to increase our visibility and footprint in.
LLC</strong> But have you seen the pace of activity changing things sliding to the right or any movement there? No not at all.
In fact the only thing that I would characterize there is the systems they use to purchase equipment over there are very different from the believe it or not orderly and very transparent system we use in the United States.
And so sometimes things take a little longer internationally because that it to be approved at different political levels.
But I don't see the urgency for the equipment diminishing at all.
In fact if anything in certain areas like the Middle East they're increasing.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC.
LLC</strong> Clay I thought we'd kick off first of all on the market share.
You said you've seen the benefits of previous wins coming through this quarter.
But your competitor said some pretty punchy things about their potential market share gains going forward.
I was wondering if you could comment about some of the potential wins you see out there for your Commercial avionics product over the next 12 months to 2 years.
Well we typically don't comment on potential wins because mainly our OEMs are very discreet when we're doing these competitions as when they make those announcements.
And in fact I think the pronouncement to which you just described you weren't given any color as to where that was they were all unannounced.
What I can confirm today is we lost one.
And so they were correct on one of those for absolutely sure.
It was a straight up competition and so that drags my percentage down from 21 out of 22 to 21 out of 23.
So I don't feel good about that but I still like my chances.
I feel very good about the technology we're putting in the market.
With Pro Line Fusion the market has already spoken for the attractiveness of that.
And so we're going to continue to pursue those markets working with our customers as we always have and we'll see how it comes out.
I'm not going to respond to what everybody else says on that but as you know we've told you exactly where we've won it and when and why and we'll continue to do that for you Rob.
LLC</strong> Just secondly I was wondering if you could give us an update on JTRS  because there was some commentary that the customer's concerned about cost recently.
Yes there was some headline stuff that came out through the quarter that I think created a flurry.
First of all one of the headlines is they were going to reduce the JTRS program R&amp;D and that's going to have some manifestation of that.
You know they may be thinking about that but we haven't seen that yet.
If you look at the GMR there's only about $15 million in R&amp;D left to spend.
And that's going to take us through the limited user test that's scheduled for later this summer and that's really the last milestone that that program has to go through to prove that it can meet the capabilities the Army has.
And then the Army will make some decision later on toward the end of this year about what kind of production program or limited production they're going to go into.
We know that the Army is looking at a lot of things like every service is looking at now.
The thing that I would point to is that at least to date there's been no desire to or statement of reduction in capabilities that they want.
Exactly how many 4 channel and 2 channel and what kind of system within those capabilities we'll wait and see when they make that production decision.
But what I would say is we've got 8 years of experience we're going to show them what we have and then we're going to listen to them as to what they want.
And we're going to work very closely with them as we have been doing about trying to make sure that we put the right system in place to do the capability that they want to have.
And if that means we have to shift and change the program and the mix we are clearly willing and able to do that.
But I think I would still focus on the requirements and the desire to move to this network-centric communication and we certainly have the expertise to be able to do that.
I mean we just demonstrated that in the delivery we made to the Navy yesterday on the ARC-210 which is now a software-defined radio.
So depending on which they want to go I think we have proven that we are very strong in delivering that capability and we'll see where it goes.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Clay I was hoping to get your high-level update on the 2 I guess highest profile development programs on each side.
You started talking about 787 you had some positive comments Goodrich had some in the press release.
Boeing seems to be saying they've kind of done everything and now just have to do it in front of the FAA.
Where is that program today in your view versus 3 to 6 months ago? And then on the Government side on JSF kind of the same question and maybe a little more specifically you have the Helmet Mounted Display.
I think last quarter you had mentioned some minor challenges there.
There's some in industry that maybe say that's one of their bigger areas of concern.
So maybe just an update on that as well.
Sure.
Well 787 is really easy.
All of our part's done.
So as I said we've got all our systems certified they're operating very well in the airplane and we couldn't be more pleased and at least the feedback I'm getting is that Boeing is pleased as well.
Now the job is up to Boeing to finish the entire system and everything I hear is positive.
I think it's just a matter of time and working through the details with the FAA to get it certified.
And so I'm much more optimistic as I sit here today than I was just 3 months ago on the last call but we've still got to get to the finish line.
And I think -- as I say every day we get closer is a better day.
That means we've gotten some work done and no issues have arisen.
So I feel good but we still have more yet to do to get to that.
I think they published third quarter when they expect to have deliveries.
On the Joint Strike Fighter Helmet it's interesting it's like the whole program it's a very complex development and this helmet is as close to Buck Rogers stuff as you're ever going to see in a military system.
And as you go through these systems the requirements have changed and been modified.
And as those requirements are changed and been modified for improvements in capability for interface with the aircraft system especially the canopy we're having to make some adjustments.
I'm very confident in our guys -- and I've stayed pretty close to this program.
I'm very confident in our guys to solve those problems.
But in a program that has high visibility like F-35 there's a lot of scrutiny on that and you can't fly the airplane unless the helmet works because that's what they use to basically fly it and guide the weapons systems.
So there's a lot of focus on it in our company and at Lockheed and at Elbit our partner and the Air Force is helping as well.
And I believe we're going to get there.
I think the Air Force is looking at potentially back-up plans in case we don't which is not imprudent.
But I think when time is done and we finally get the requirements stabilized and get the work done I believe we'll deliver them a very high-quality state-of-the-art system at that time.
What would those back-up plans be? Well I think they're looking for less capable helmets with less technology in there because as I say they have to have the helmet to fly the airplane.
Are you working on those back-up plans? We're participating with them to define what that could be.
And if I could just sneak in one more for Patrick.
On the Government margin you said first quarter the low watermark.
You've talked about the full year being steady from '10.
To get to the same margin you had for '10 you'd have to be kind of somewhere between 21.5% and 22% in the second half.
Is that the right number to be thinking about? Yes I think so.
One of the factors is incentive compensation's a bigger headwind in the first half of the year than the second half of the year.
And when you adjust for that I'm pretty confident we'll get to those margin levels.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Patrick first to go back to the Bombardier loan for a moment.
Could you give us a little more color? Did you get security? And it looks like you lent all the cash that was on your balance sheet at the end of the quarter.
How do you -- I mean are you going to just draw on your line of credit for operating needs during this period? Well first of all it is an unsecured loan.
But it's also a very short term loan so I'm not too concerned about that.
We did not loan the cash that was on our balance sheet principally because that cash is outside the U.S.
and we can't repatriate it without tax consequences.
So we went to the commercial paper market and funded it through commercial paper.
Now I would expect that over the 60-day period we'll generate some more cash flow we'll pay down some of that commercial paper.
But for the most part it's being financed through commercial paper.
Inc.</strong> I get it.
That's understandable and I appreciate that.
The other thing that -- just the background here.
Did we already see all the costs that were related to the challenges associated with certifying the system for the airplane Clay? Yes I think they've all been expensed.
Inc.</strong> And then just one final thing.
I mean based on sort of this change in environment for the defense market how are you thinking about dealing with it? I mean I know that you're quick on your feet and in a lot of ways ARC-210 is a great example of anticipating customer needs.
But what other things do you think you need to do to compensate for this new austerity that seems to be descending upon the Defense Department? Well first of all maintain a solid balance business with a growing Commercial business.
Howard as you well know we founded this company and structure it to be balanced around our 2 major businesses because we know that these -- markets cycle.
And so we structured it in a way that we can move our intellectual capital our engineers from one side to the other.
We can replace our research and development to go where we need to have it go.
And so that's part of that nimbleness you talked about.
We have alternatives where other defense companies do not as to where to grow.
But within that defense market I still think that even in times of austerity we're positioned to provide some capabilities some of which are going to stay high priority like tankers and rotary wing.
I mean they're not going to get out of everything.
And so we have the diversity of product line where we can still play in those markets that are going to grow.
And then for those markets that aren't going to grow those systems are aging and will need to be upgraded.
My best proof point is the KC-135.
Those things have been around older than I am almost.
Well maybe not that old.
But they are something that has generated almost $2 billion of revenue for our company just keeping them up to date and modifying them because of the kind of products we do.
So we'll be looking for those opportunities where modernization accounts may be diminishing and where I think the priorities will shift to.
So that's I think the second way we do it.
Then the third thing is not all defense markets in the world are declining.
Those that I had mentioned in a question earlier are where we think there is growth and we're going to go over there and make sure we fish where the fish are.
So those are sort of our strategies of how I believe we can outgrow -- whatever the underlying market is I think our company is uniquely positioned to be able to outgrow that underlying market which we've described in some length in the past.
Inc.</strong> I mean the technology's there for a lot of this to happen.
I understand Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Clay could you comment the 11 platforms you mentioned for the Pro Line Fusion have those all been announced at this point? I think there are 3 or 4 that have not been announced Myles.
And that one that you've mentioned had gone the other way is that actually a loss or was that a toss-up open competition in terms of market share? Well it was a competition and we did lose.
So I guess I'd say that.
It was not -- let me say this:  It was not a loss of share -- I'm sorry it was not a loss of incumbent position for us.
Okay thanks.
And then on the biz jet aftermarket revenue Project Liberty flows through there.
Was there anything in the quarter with respect to that? And then it looks like last year second half is when it really started to flow through so should we be facing that headwind in the second half of this year? Myles you're right.
There was a little bit of Project Liberty this quarter not significant but we are going to be facing that headwind third and particularly fourth quarter because of the flow last year.
Fair to say that's 5% to 7% headwind for that piece of your business? That sounds about right.
And last one is it fair to think that the share repurchase will be pretty de minimis this quarter because of the loan and the outstanding cash? Well I don't think it's really going to be influenced much by the loan because the cash is going to be back in-house by the end of the quarter.
Your final question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
High-level question Clay.
You talked about defense and outgrowing the market and I assume that's both the function of being Rockwell Collins and being in the electronics and avionics business.
But could you cast that sort of long-term defense growth for your business against the Commercial? Could you elaborate on what you mean by cast it? You mean compare it? Yes I think the idea would be to talk about when you net one against the other what the growth rate is for the company.
Well I think that's giving a guidance I haven't yet given there Rob so I'm a little hesitant to do that.
But let me say this: at least for the foreseeable future I expect them both to be in the positive territory.
And I think with this upside cycle that we have in Commercial you're going to see a very high rate of growth there.
And when you average them out I think it's going to be a very respectable rate of growth between the 2.
We had talked about the fact that the markets will eventually merge in earnings in about 2003 and then in sales -- I'm sorry 2013 and then in sales about 2015.
So that gives you at least a directional input of how the balance in our business continues to shift back to that roughly equal 50/50.
But I guess I would be hesitant at this point right in time to give you a 5-year number of how when you add them both together what we're going to do.
Maybe at a subsequent conference I'll do that but I would probably not want to update that guidance today.
Could you do this could you talk about some of the larger risk areas in the military side? You were asked earlier about what's exposed to the CR but I'm talking about longer term.
[indiscernible] was already mentioned a couple others.
Well I think any large modernization program -- and you know what those are.
Shipbuilding -- when we cut the budget it's either shipbuilding aircraft or major army weapon systems is where the big bucks are.
They may carp around the edge but that's where the big bucks are.
And so if they're going to get kind of savings in the Pentagon that have been talked about some of those large-scale programs have to be impacted for the same reason if you're going to solve the deficit in the United States you've got to go into transfer payments and Medicare and Social Security.
So you can't balance the budget in the Pentagon on the back of the modernization accounts.
It's only a third of the total budget so you've got to get into the people program.
So as a result of that I think you will see a reduced force structure and therefore modernization programs come down a little bit.
That'll have some effect on us but the majority of our business is sort of ubiquitous behind those major weapons systems in upgrades of older aircraft.
Witness the rotary wing growth we're having with the CAAS cockpit today.
We're getting extraordinary attraction in putting glass cockpits into older helicopters.
And we can do the same thing with mobility aircraft and the like.
Same thing with communications systems.
If you're going to have fewer systems you have to have more lethality and more lethality comes with situation awareness and smart weaponry.
That gets into our communication and navigation GPS products which I think will stay in high demand in a more austere environment.
And so that's why -- everybody's going to say they're well positioned.
I understand that.
But I think I've got as good an argument as any and better than most that our kind of systems are diverse enough ubiquitous enough and affordable enough because we bring a lot of commercial capability into the military that I think we're going to do okay.
So I think the big weapons systems stuff hey that's the ones to watch.
And then just one last thing.
At what point do you see the aftermarket growth inflecting more toward the air transport side versus the biz jet regional which has been stronger last few quarters? Well depends on which part of the aftermarket you're seeing.
If you wanted to know the MRO I don't see an inflection.
I think we're pretty close to the steady state of mid- to high-single digits and I don't think it'll grow past that.
I think in the Retrofits and Spares I think we're seeing double-digit growth now.
And whether it changes much in the next 2 years really I don't think it will.
Because I think the efficiency areas will be in high demand.
I think as we modernize the airspace there'll be other opportunities for TCAS and GPS landing mandates that could be coming about.
They're already happening in Europe.
And so I think that's already at a pretty good place in double digits.
I think what you'll probably see is a stabilization in the biz jet area to bring it down from this 20% growth down to maybe a low double-digit growth for a little while.
And so if anything is going to inflect that pent-up demand running through biz jet is likely to satiate itself let's say after the next year.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q in the next few days.
So please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
Thank you all for joining us and for participating in today's conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Darla and good morning everyone.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning.
As I reflect on this quarter I am reminded of the ancient Chinese curse may you live in interesting times.
Well this is an interesting quarter in which we achieved 13% earnings per share growth on relatively flat sales.
And considering the circumstances I believe it was great performance.
However to fully appreciate that judgment you need to understand what happened so let me try to give some context beginning with Government Systems.
For the past few quarters I've highlighted risk to that business resulting from the Department of Defense operating under a prolonged continuing resolution.
Well a full measure of that risk was realized in the third quarter and it was the predominant causal factor of an 11% decline in Government Systems revenue.
Specifically we can trace $53 million in adverse impact to revenue from delays and program funding and award timing.
In most cases we had been selected on the program and are already under contract but the flow of funding was much slower than anticipated and therefore expected revenues were pushed out of the quarter.
In addition to continuing resolution and efficiencies a re-prioritization in government spending resulted in the cancellation of 3 programs all of which were at the convenience of the government.
One of these contracts was a residual component of the Future Combat Systems program while the other 2 involved modernization of secure communication systems where the customers chose to stay with less capable but more affordable legacy systems.
Collectively $21 million of revenue was lost in the quarter related to those programs.
Now when you couple this total of $74 million resulting from budgetary implications with the top comparable of about $40 million that we had on sales of iForce public safety vehicle systems that we knew going into the quarter you can easily come to 2 conclusions: one is we experienced some really bad timing this quarter; and two the balance of our Government Systems business actually performed very well.
As an example of that good performance we managed to achieve operating margins of 21.1% an increase of 80 basis points year-over-year despite an $86 million revenue decline.
We also had some very positive developments this quarter.
We received contracts or announced significant positions on the U.S.
Air Force KC-46A the Brazilian KC-390 and most recently upgrades for the KC-10 tanker fleet.
Those combined with our work on the KC-135 Block 45 upgrade solidify our long-term position in the tanker market.
And in rotary wing platforms we continue to experience very strong growth with a 13% increase in sales this quarter and a 28% increase in the year-to-date.
Now I believe that the unusual events that transpired this quarter are mostly transitory and we're already seeing activity pick up as DOD works to obligate the appropriated funds for FY '11.
However the likely residual impact of these delays and cancellations has caused us to lower Government Systems revenue projections for FY '11 to down 1%.
Now while the market environment was challenging for Government Systems we had an outstanding quarter in our Commercial Systems business where we reported a 15% increase in revenue resulting from both market growth and share gains.
And this top line growth translated into a 45% increase in operating earnings and a 420 basis points expansion of operating margins.
Overall OEM revenues were up 19% as deliveries on our recently certified Pro Line Fusion flight deck for the Bombardier Global platforms ramped up this quarter and drove a 26% increase in business in regional jet OEM sales.
We also enjoyed continued strength in our aftermarket business with a robust 15% growth.
And most impressively our air transport portion of the aftermarket really took off with 27% growth.
The nondiscretionary revenue from that market grew 17% while our retrofit and spare sales increased over 50% albeit on a relatively easy comparable.
With the results we've seen year-to-date from Commercial Systems we now expect revenue growth of approximately 13% for the year.
Looking ahead at the commercial market environment I feel that conditions remain very positive for long-term growth.
Coming out of the Paris Airshow the OEMs booked a record level of orders and further strengthened the backlog that drives our industry.
And the American Airline order earlier this week kept that momentum going.
In the air transport market traffic continues to strengthen and we expect it to be up about 5% for the year.
And the long anticipated entry into service of Boeing's 787 and 747-8 will make us all feel a lot better.
In the business and regional jet market we still see mixed signals.
In general this recovery is playing out in a typical fashion but is being slowed a bit particularly at the low end by a less robust economic recovery.
However there are numerous positive indicators such as inventories of used aircraft moving lower especially for young aircraft which came down another 2% this quarter.
The high-end of the market continues to be fueled by international demand and I would expect to see rate increases in the near future.
We're seeing some selected improvements from mid-sized jets and the low end of the market is still waiting to get enough orders to build backlog.
However all-in I expect business jet production rates are likely to be higher in 2012 which with additional market share gains will further fuel our Commercial Systems growth.
So going forward we will continue to play to the considerable strength of our company optimizing the opportunities as we have them and managing around those things we don't control.
If anything this past quarter should give some evidence to our capabilities to do just that.
So with that I'd like to turn the call over to Patrick for more detail.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
Before I review the financial results I wanted to mention that during the quarter we entered into an agreement with the intent to divest a portion of our business.
For all periods presented we have classified the results of the Rollmet business as a discontinued operation which was previously reported within the air transport aftermarket portion of the Commercial Systems segment.
In the third quarter press release we provided a table with certain adjusted financial results reflecting the impact of this action.
Please see that table for additional information.
With that let's get started by first reviewing our results for the total company which is shown on Slides 3 and 4.
Total company sales for the quarter were down about 1% when compared to last year's sales while net income and earnings per share increased by 11% and 13% respectively.
This increase in net income and earnings per share came primarily from higher operating earnings in our Commercial Systems business which I will review in detail later in the presentation.
It's worthy to note for the first time in 2 years both business segments reported quarterly operating margins above 20%.
Turning to Slide 5 we take a look at the third quarter results of our Commercial Systems business which achieved a revenue increase of 15% from $454 million in 2010 to $522 million this year.
Sales related to aircraft original equipment manufacturers increased $45 million or 19% to $285 million.
Business and regional jet OEM sales increased 26% or $33 million primarily due to the ramp up in deliveries of Pro Line Fusion cockpits to Bombardier for their global product lines including revenue to upgrade development units to certified status as well as an increase in customer-funded development revenues.
Air transport OEM sales increased $12 million or 11% primarily due to higher aircraft delivery rates and increased customer-funded development revenue.
Aftermarket sales increased $28 million or 15% to $209 million.
Air transport aftermarket revenues increased $23 million or 27% driven by significantly higher spare sales the simulator providers and multiple airlines as well as a 17% increase in service and support sales.
Aftermarket sales of the business regional jet market increased $5 million or 5% resulting from increased services and support revenue.
Business and regional retrofit and spares revenue was down slightly due to a difficult comparable as we posted significant spares revenue last year related to the Project Liberty border patrol aircraft program.
On Page 6 we see Commercial Systems operating earnings increased $33 million or 45% for the 3 months ended June 30 2011 and resulted in operating margins of 20.5% compared to 16.3% last year.
The robust increase in operating earnings includes an adjustment to customer incentive reserves for $9 million.
However if I exclude the impact of that adjustment our incremental margins were still above 40% for the quarter.
Although that isn't the low end of what we typically expect for incremental margins I am pleased with that performance given the high level of Bombardier global deliveries this quarter which come in a lower incremental margin due to the current stage of that program's life cycle.
Moving on to Page 7.
Government Systems third quarter revenues were down 11% from $754 million in 2010 to $668 million in 2011.
As Clay mentioned earlier the primary driver of our reduced revenue this quarter was the adverse impact from government funding delays and fewer deliveries of iForce public safety vehicle systems.
Airborne Solutions sales increased $28 million or 6% to $488 million.
This growth came from increase in development effort on a common range integrated instrumentation system in the KC-46A tanker programs as well as the transition to low rate initial production on the E-6 aircraft upgrade program and higher deliveries on helicopter programs.
These increases were partially offset by a reduction in sales for the KC-135 GATM program and a program termination.
Surface Solutions sales decreased $114 million or 39% to $180 million.
The lower sales were primarily due to approximately $40 million in lower deliveries of iForce and the predominance of the delays in government program finding and terminations which Clay discussed earlier.
Page 8 shows Government Systems third quarter operating earnings decreased 8% from $153 million in 2010 to $141 million this year while operating margins increased from 20.3% to 21.1%.
The decrease in operating earnings was due to the lower sales volume.
Now normally a sales decline the magnitude experienced by Government Systems this quarter will result in margin contraction.
However the main sources of our sales decline come at relatively lower margins namely: iForce satellite communications and development programs.
We also had a favorable warranty adjustment this quarter but that was offset by the fact that we had a favorable contract adjustment of a similar amount in last year's third quarter.
On Slide 9 we have our 9-month year-to-date total company financial results for sales EPS net income and operating cash flow.
Of note on this slide is the increase in our year-to-date earnings per share of 14% especially when compared to the 4% revenue increase.
Additionally we have seen our year-to-date cash flow for the corporation come down about $200 million to $246 million.
The main drivers continue to be the $71 million payment of our incentive compensation in the first quarter which we did not have in the prior year $52 million of higher spending on preproduction engineering and $77 million primarily related to the impacts of higher production inventory.
Typically we would expect a cyclical decline in production inventory during the third quarter.
However the balance actually grew a bit as Government Systems sales volumes were impacted by the funding delays which also resulted in an increase in our finished goods inventory.
We also had on hand about $10 million of increased component parts to mitigate risks from the recent events in Japan.
For the year we were also lowering our operating cash flow guidance to the bottom end of the range to about $650 million as impacts from the continuing resolution are expected to result in higher inventory and lower customer advances.
The remaining $400 million of operating cash generation comes in our seasonally highest volume and earnings quarter of the year.
We expect to bridge the difference with the collection of about $60 million in accounts receivable from Boeing tied to new program launch milestones a cyclical reduction in production inventory and a reduction in our unbilled receivables.
Moving to Slide 10 we show the status of our capital structure.
As of the end of the third quarter we had $70 million of short-term borrowings and $514 million of long-term debt outstanding as compared to $24 million in short-term borrowings and $525 million in long-term debt at the end of fiscal year 2010.
Ending the quarter we had a debt to total capital ratio of 26% a level we are comfortable with and one that in combination with our investment grade credit ratings provides us the ability to cost-effectively fund our growth needs.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the third quarter is detailed on Slide 11.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.1 million shares of stock.
This brings our total share repurchase activities since 2002 to just over 62 million shares or 2.9 billion return to share owners through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
Now on to Slide 12 our final slide where we provide details of our fiscal year 2011 financial guidance.
We are updating some of the components of our guidance today and I would like to add some context to those adjustments.
We expect total revenues for 2011 to be in the range of $4.8 billion to $4.85 billion.
This reflects the classification of approximately $35 million of sales as discontinued operations as well as the updated outlook from both of our business segments.
We expect our Government Systems business to be down about 1% for the year with about 5% growth in Airborne and a double-digit decline in Surface Solutions.
In Commercial Systems we now anticipate fiscal year 2011 revenues to be up about 13% from 2010.
This increase over our previous guidance is based on the strength of our OEM deliveries which we expect to be up mid-teens in air transport and about 20% for business and regional jets.
Additionally we now expect mid-teens growth across the aftermarket based upon the recent strength in the air transport market.
Total research and development expenditures is expected to be about $925 million and represent about 19% of sales.
Company funded research and development is still expected to be about 7.5% of total company sales.
Finally from a margin and earnings per share perspective we are narrowing our guidance to the upper end of the range with total segment operating margin between 20% and 20.5% and earnings per share from continuing operations between $4 and $4.10.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Patrick.
In order to give everyone an opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit yourself to 2 questions per caller.
Operator we're now ready to open the line.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with Merrill Lynch.
Patrick do you mind walk to through that cash in the quarter? I mean it seems like there was something more going on than just inventory to have the cash flow as weak as it was.
Can you kind of walk through that? I would say this we typically generate most of our cash flow in the fourth quarter anyway so the third quarter isn't always -- isn't necessarily gangbuster's quarter.
I would say it was probably a combination of higher inventories as well as lower customer advances.
We're really seeing customer advances come down year-over-year because of the impact of a lot of these funding delays that Clay talked about earlier.
Are you also having higher unbilled receivables or -- what's going on there? I would say unbilled receivables are slightly higher as well.
And why is that? Same thing.
We're not getting through the milestones quite as quickly as we would have under normal circumstances.
Okay.
And then maybe one for Clay if I can.
Your outlook for biz jets in the next year it looks like it's improving a bit.
What would make you feel really good about biz jets? What would you have to see now to feel much better about that market? I think if the folks at the low end of the market begin to start picking orders up.
Frankly I was encouraged by some of the things Scott Donnelly said at his call earlier this week that they're beginning to see the phone ring.
And if we see over the balance of this year that pickup then I think that would be a very encouraging sign.
As I said we all have seen for some time the large end to be a bit stronger for quite some time.
We're seeing a little bit of improvement in the mid-sized jets.
And so the last residual effect is going to be at that low end.
So if we begin to see that then I think we're really taking off.
As I said we're really not counting on that but that would be a very positive sign.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
I was wondering if Clay you can comment on the defense outlook.
I know you're talking about a pretty significant rebound here sequentially into fourth quarter so I guess you're thinking most of the third quarter effect was timing related.
But as you look into 2012 and beyond has your outlook for kind of a sustainable low- to mid-single-digit growth rate changed at all? Well first thing yes let me reiterate.
I think as we have been sort of predicting for the balance of the year that CR chickens came home to roost in the third quarter.
And if what we're seeing now is true which is an increase in procurement level activity from contracting officers and funds flowing which was I would say very stagnant for us in some areas of the third quarter then that should be -- we should recover to a more normal flow rate.
The only thing that concerns me is that sort of residual effects for everyone of those programs that we now get converted from third quarter does one slip out of the fourth quarter into now the fourth calendar quarter our first quarter of next year.
As you know when the government -- as long as they get that money obligated they can use it but they don't necessarily have to obligate it fast enough for us to convert the product into a sale in fourth quarter.
That's what I mean by that residual effect if you understand government procurement.
But they've got the money.
I think they want to spend the money.
We certainly like to deliver the product and that's just how fast can the bureaucracy work.
And I think that's what we're looking at this year.
In the next year I think it depends largely on the outcome of the appropriations process which is largely at least being impacted by this whole deficit reduction discussion.
But if you look at the numbers that came out the house we're very pleased with the numbers that came out the house.
We'll see what they do in the Senate.
But if they get an appropriations bill then I think we'll return to a basically flat defense budget which is what we've been calling for some time.
Now whether or not we're going to be able to grow that mid-single digits or low single digits I think we're going to wait until September when we give you our guidance for next year but we believe we can outgrow whatever that basic market is.
That's been our mantra.
And so we're going to -- this has got us a little cautious and we're going to wait and see what the bill does and then we'll give you guidance in September on that.
But I don't think there's any -- I guess the basic question everybody's asking now: Is there fundamentally wrong with our Government System business because of this very anomalous quarter? And I believe the answer to that question is resoundingly no.
We've got some very strong growth platforms.
I think this was just a series of bad timing events and sort of an inevitable risk from the CR that we faced.
And we don't believe that's going to be replicated over the next several quarters.
Okay.
And then a follow-up for Patrick.
The balance sheet with respect to the warranty product warranty cost has been on the decline now for a couple of years.
And I think piece of that is you've been incurring below your costs and also there's been some reversals pretty consistently over that period.
When does that start to reverse and be more of a headwind to your earnings as opposed to help? Well let me speak first to the cause of those declines.
I think if you look through it most of it's on the Government Systems side of the business and an awful lot of it relates to what I'd say very extended warranty terms on things like KC-135 program on -- we have a 20-year warranty on the Joint Direct Attack Munitions program.
And so because of these extended warranty terms we tend to be pretty conservative when we initially established the reserves.
And what you're really seeing are some scheduled releases of those reserves as our warranty experience warrants -- the release.
What I'd say is I don't think you're necessarily going to see a flip through a headwind but it may not -- but we may be nearing the end of reversing some of these reserves.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC.
LLC</strong> Clay I thought we'd kick off with the aerospace aftermarket.
So you saw some good results there in the quarter.
I was wondering if you could characterize whether the underlying trends here are accelerating and whether you think some of these drivers are sustainable over the next 12 months? Well I think that for us there was an acceleration in spare sale especially in the air transport area.
So that was the I would say the pleasant upper that we saw in that regard.
I think that notwithstanding what we're seeing is an awful lot of positive traction in those programs that we had that deal with efficiencies and flying through the airspace.
If you look at what the airlines are doing in general they're acutely aware of the specter of rising oil prices.
That's why you saw American do what they did earlier this week.
That's why they're investing in these assets and putting things like RNP and some of the aerospace efficiency initiatives.
And so we see a very strong desire for that.
And so I believe that combined with just the increase in air traffic and the normal cycle that you get should allow us to continue this aftermarket for at least a few quarters ahead.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then secondly Patrick I was wondering on the cash front the Japan spares inventories the safety stuff there and also the Government Systems inventories.
How do you expect this to flow back your way? What is your timeline on that? As I mentioned we have about $10 million in Japan safety stock.
We're anticipating that to be maybe about $5 million by the end of the year.
The Government Systems one is a little bit harder to call just because of the timing of a lot of different programs and a lot of moving parts there.
But we're certainly expecting some reduction in that area this quarter as well.
And the balance will probably work itself off over the course of the first half of next year.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Clay I hear you on the delays in the CR and that sort of thing.
But when you look at your 2 segments in defense one of them is up and the other -- and it's really -- this is all about Surface.
So I'm wondering if you could -- I mean are all of these delays happening on the Surface side? And if so why is that? Well if you look at the delays first thing there's not one segment.
We had some delays in simulators.
We had some delays in GPS products for DAGRs which is never delayed.
We had some delays in SATCOM products.
We had some delays in optical products.
And so if you look at our product line it's kind of across-the-board.
But if you look one step deeper at who the end customer is there is a remarkable concentration with the Army.
And I think if you combined that fact with sort of how the Army is having to adjust to probably up-tempo and then the recent report about inefficiencies that we've seen coming out of Army acquisition the dots kind of connect.
They really do.
And so I think the causal catalyst for this is the fact that when they finally got the go-ahead to start spending the money there was either some uncertainty or ill preparedness to try to release the monies in this area.
So I would say if you're looking for a trend or a causal you look at the Army-type products which when you look at our business in total I think and you try to understand why we were able to hold the profitability most of the core business that we have the long-standing product core business is airborne-related.
And a lot of our new programs and new ventures are more Army-related.
So that's one reason we were able to hold the profitability and kind of move through this inefficiency as well as we did.
So I think if you're looking for trend Joe that's it.
Okay.
Well if we're looking at this -- you already gave us different buckets one way of looking at it.
But if we were to look at just the $114 million in Surface and we take $40 million out for iForce just kind of rolling off is it possible to give the top 2 or 3 product categories that comprise the rest of that decline by business as opposed to by reason for delay? I think DAGRs SATCOM Optronics which was Nett Warrior dismounted soldier and then a little bit of simulation relative to the T-BOS component of that even though simulation was actually up but that one component was down.
Okay.
And then just finally Patrick you mentioned I think in your discussion of Government that there was a some sort of a reversal or gain in there.
Could you repeat what that was and quantify it? No that was a warranty adjustment.
We booked about a $6 million warranty adjustment in Government Systems this quarter.
We also booked a $6 million favorable contract adjustment in last year's third quarter.
So year-over-year not a significant impact.
I get that year-over-year but if we're just looking at the run rate of profitability obviously it's lower if you take that out.
Would you guys say that that's just -- I mean obviously because sales are down and if we look forward and things normalize as you expect that the margins are going to come back up to where they are now but that one-timer essentially offset the sales weakness kind of one-for-one? Yes.
I mean there are a lot of other moving parts too Joe.
There's higher company-funded R&amp;D.
There were a number of other things that were impacting it.
I think we've always talked about having Government margins in that 20% to 22% range.
I still feel comfortable with that.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Clay moving this discussion on government to thinking about next year you talked about the uncertainty around the budget.
But can you just talk about as you look at next year what kind of potential tough comparisons you face next year in terms of specific programs coming down rolling off.
You talked about DAGR being a bit of a headwind this year.
I would think it would continue to be a headwind next year.
But just I guess the moving pieces on a program level positives versus negatives and kind of how those come out overall? Well I think if you're looking for your relative trends I think certainly DAGR is expected to continue to go down as we have projected for a long time.
I think you could probably expect some SATCOM programs related to up-tempo which we've been talking about the 2 exposures we have in the supplemental perforations or DAGRs and some of SATCOM programs.
So those are the ones I would say that would be most candidates for decreases.
But I think offsetting that you get all these tanker programs coming in.
You've got the CRIIS program the SLC3S program.
You've got new helicopter programs mods coming in.
We've got some of the upgrades to C-130s in the international area specifically that we expect to be strong.
You've got the E-6 program that we're working on which had a very nice ramp up right now.
So these are the new platforms we have.
HMS if it continues to go for JTRS I think is going to be a positive force next year.
So these are the areas I believe that we feel very optimistic about that are going to give us that growth to offset the inevitability of some of these government programs either life cycling down or seeing the up-tempo slow.
The DAGR headwind next year do you have any sense of how big that will be? We'll probably specify that better when we get to September.
Okay.
Last question for me.
On the business jets side on the OE side obviously saw very strong growth this quarter as the global fusion ramps up on Global.
Are you at a full rate now on that or is there further room for that to move up? I think there's room for that to move up.
We had little bit of bubble here because we were converting some program from red to black label as they went into certification.
But I think as they increased the rate of that Global Series I think there's room for more.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC</strong> So give me a little help.
I guess Government is down 1% for the year.
What's the mix between Airborne and Surface? Does Surface kind of get to have to be about flat in the fourth quarter? In Patrick's section he guided that Surface would be down about double digits for the year.
Right Airborne's up about 5% for the year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So I guess you've mentioned that the mix was kind of a help Government in the quarter because the stuff that slipped was lower margins.
So if the stuff that slipped kind of starts to come in in the fourth quarter can the margins still be in the 21%-plus area? Yes I believe it can.
Obviously it will be helped by higher volume which will offset the impact of the lower margin stuff coming in.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the cash flow side what's the impact if Boeing gets the 787 delivered by the middle of September is there any plus that you get? And conversely is there any negative? I had mentioned about $60 million in payments tied to Boeing's launch milestones.
About $40 million to $50 million of that relates to the 747-8 so the bulk of it is the 747-8.
And that needs to get certified.
The remainder is tied to the 787 and we are counting on entry into service this fourth quarter here.
So there's no offer [ph] to that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But so if they don't -- you get the check like if they certify with 2 to 3 days to go in the quarter you got the check or how does that all work? The terms are a little bit between the 2 aircraft.
For the 747-8 the payment clock starts on certification which we're anticipating sort of toward the beginning of the quarter.
For the 787 the payment clock technically starts with the first delivery.
So that -- you look at that and you say well that might be at risk.
We're negotiating right now with Boeing hoping to get the payment this quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And where are we on 787 provisioning? Has that started to ramp? No.
Remember Cai we talked about -- they slowed us down to about a 2 per month 2 per month rate and we're at that rate.
And then the spares are I guess not anticipated to come in in a huge way.
I think we have little bit in fourth quarter none in the third quarter.
And right now it kind of depends on whether the airlines does the power by the hour or buys the spares outright.
So we're not looking at a big land rush of spares coming in.
LLC</strong> And final what do you expect the tax rate to be for the year? Tax rate for the year is 28% to 29%.
LLC</strong> That's pretty broad I mean given we only have one quarter to go.
Can you give...
Yes.
I would say probably towards the bottom end of that range.
Your next question comes from the line of Troy Lahr with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I'm wondering if you can talk about incremental margins at Commercial Systems kind of excluding the $9 million favorable adjustment.
It seems like they were kind of in a 35% range.
Is that how we should look at incremental margins going forward at Commercial? Or do you think that they begin to pickup? They're actually slightly over 40% because that $9 million adjustment affects both revenue and cost.
So if you adjust for both the numerator and the denominator it's slightly over 40%.
And we've always talked about incremental margins between 40% and 50%.
I'd say as I indicated in my prepared remarks drifted towards the bottom end of that range because we had a fairly sizable delivery of Bombardier fusion products.
And those are just entering into service so those tend to come at lower margins.
So I'd say yes the 40% to 50% incremental I think is still a pretty good guidance.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then if you look at the defense programs that were canceled for convenience do you see other programs at risk? Or do you think you're kind of pretty safe now? I think it would be unwise to say you're safe in this environment but we don't see any others that are being specifically talked about.
In fact I could argue that we didn't see those coming or we would've forecast them for the quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
A lot of moving pieces Patrick that you've given in the numbers for the full year but just -- can you just clarify what you expect for the Commercial margin in Q4? You talked about Government I think at 21%? Well we don't tend to give quarterly guidance.
What I'd say is that we're expecting full year margins to be 20% to 20.5% and you do the math.
Well I'm doing the math and it looks like you need to have some improvement I guess from what the underlying number would've been this quarter.
I'm not sure exactly how to factor out the $9 million based on what you just said but would you say that your underlying margin was somewhere in the high 18s 19%? I think it's close to 19%.
And so you're expecting something slightly better than that? I would say yes slightly better.
Okay.
And then second question.
Clay with the specter of another CR and your trend of offering guidance for the following fiscal year in September how do you manage that? Well best you can.
I can't control that.
What I would say about this CR that's different than all previous CRs is that it lasted longer and had much more of a cautionary effect on the Pentagon.
And that was the real reason the risk was realized.
We're not -- in fact it would be a great year that we started out with having appropriations built in the beginning.
So we're very used to having a CR that goes 2 3 months maybe even 4 months.
The fact that this was 6 months had an effect that says "You won't go into the year with a good backlog of sales." We're basically burning off those sales through the year expecting to pick up the orders for the balance of the year the unfilled sales if you will during that first 6 months.
But guess what happened? That didn't happen near the rate we've seen in the past.
I mean look at our revenue flow for the year up 6% in the first quarter up 3% or 4% in the second quarter down 11% in the third.
What happened is we did not get those orders until the CR was completed.
Once the CR is completed we thought the money would flow right away.
It did not.
There was a traction.
I felt like a Road Runner cartoon where the wheels are turning but nothing's going.
And now it took 2 or 3 months to get that going.
So I think that was the difference.
Now if we replicate that next year we are likely to have the same effect.
One hopes next year that if we have the CR we're not operating for 6 months with it.
If we are I think then we're back into trying to manage a very volatile situation.
But the best thing we can hope is it doesn't last that long.
So by September then you would guide considering or contemplating a small CR if any that would resolve itself within the fiscal year and therefore not have a net impact except on timing? That's correct.
And like I say we've done that for years and years previous to this and you can work with that kind of a duration of CR.
Okay.
And then just finally a clarification Patrick.
Your revenue range for this year which is obviously just fourth quarter now the $50 million is that primarily on the military side or both segments? I'd say there's both risk and opportunity on both sides of the house.
There's probably a little more volatility as we look at the Government business right now.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Just back on the programs that you mentioned were terminated for convenience did you receive any fees for that or is there still an opportunity there? Is that resolved in terms of that negotiation? I think we still need to finish some negotiations.
There may be some slight adjustments to the revenues and profitability but I don't anticipate them to be significant.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then the $9 million favorable adjustment at Commercial was that always assumed in your guidance when you're thinking about the profitability for the year? I would say a portion of it was yes but not all of it.
LLC</strong> Okay all right.
And then just one last question.
Clay you had mentioned the HMS component of JTRS and not moving into LRIP what does that mean for you as we look forward over the next 12 months? Well obviously it gives us greater confidence that the JTRS is going to move forward and it remains a priority program.
This LRIP increment that we're doing now will be both used for our learning for the use of the Army and further testing.
We're just getting through the Limited User Test and our expectation is that went well and that we'll have a subsequent LRIP LUT probably determined by the DOD around the first part of next calendar year which would then open up the opportunity for increased sales later in '12.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Access 342.
Patrick or Clay the $52 million increase in preproduction effort seems like a lot given that you delivered the Pro Line Fusion so if you can explain what's going on and what's causing that to still go up like that? Well we did deliver the Pro Line Fusion this quarter so there was a fair amount of spending on the Pro Line Fusion but it also highlight the A350.
We had a fairly significant deferral going on with the A350 related to our information management onboard program.
And those are probably -- that and CSeries is probably the other major driver.
Okay.
And then one more just back to the question on product warranty expense.
If you go back to like '09 your warranty to sales was like 4.9%.
And with the drop off this quarter you're down to 3.2% so it has really been a pretty big tailwind for you.
What's the right percent that that should be? Well it's -- let me maybe dissect it a little bit.
We've got -- on the Government side of the business the way we book warranties is very much program-specific.
And the warranty can vary anywhere from one year to as I mentioned earlier 20 years.
And so the warranty -- relative warranty rate we book on Government varies pretty widely.
On the Commercial side of the business what I'd say is that the benefit that we've had over the last few years is a combination of product mix.
We have a higher warranty cost on our in-flight entertainment business that we do on the balance of the business as well as improving reliability on all really all of our products but most notably the in-flight entertainment.
So not only has that -- have those sales been coming down and so we've been benefiting from the mix but also the reliabilities that has been improving and so we've been adjusting our reserves accordingly.
One comment I'd have on warranty reserves is that we typically tend to be pretty conservative with respect to warranty.
And so if you look over history the vast majority of our adjustments both from a contact perspective as well as from a warranty perspective tend to be favorable.
I don't anticipate that trend changing at all.
I do think that over time on the Commercial side of the business warranty cost will continue to come down as we continue to bleed off the wide-body in-flight entertainment product line.
Yes.
Because it just struck me like in '06 '07 '08 '09 it was up around 4.8% and 4.9%.
And it's just been the last year and a half that we've had this steady this steady decline.
But you're saying that down towards this 3% number is a more normal number then going forward? Yes.
I think George you have to think about the in-flight entertainment equipment as being the biggest change in that area.
We all know back when we first did that the warranties were very high on that because of the basically the poor reliability of that product.
As we move out of that business I think that aggregate goes down and it's a very logical move.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Patrick what is the net number in the quarter of what you would consider unusual? I'd say on the Government side of the business the net number year-over-year is about 0.
On the Commercial side of the business net year-over-year is about $9 million.
Okay.
But not year-over-year just on an absolute basis looking in the quarter? Looking in the quarter we had as I mentioned about a $6 million adjustment in the Government side of the business.
And we had the $9 million on Commercial.
Got it.
My next question is just after the -- what happened with Bombardier on the Globals and the loan I'm just wondering if there are any other I don't know if you'd call it a red program or other places where you have some caution on the new programs that you're layering in over time? Well first thing Bombardier was never a red program.
And so as we made very clear on that arrangement with Bombardier that was done relative to a timing issue and to basically work very closely with a very important customer of ours who had requested that consideration.
But directly to answer your question I don't see any programs right now that I would classify as red relative to our performance.
Got it.
And then just Clay following up on the discussion around the CR what are you hearing about the potential for Fiscal '12 to operate under a CR for the entire year when you speak to those you speak to in the industry? I think right now you're hearing everything Noah.
I mean let's face it it's an uncertain environment because of what's going on in Washington.
All of us read the newspapers.
We all don't know what's going to happen.
And so when you look at that complete environment relative to debt reduction and debt extension and then you just put any of the large appropriations bill and there's great uncertainty there.
And my hope is that over the next few weeks some of that uncertainty will be resolved when finally we resolve this debt reduction thing.
But I mean there's no reason at all to think that they're going to operate under a CR in '12 any more than they would they did in 2011.
Now they operate on a 6-month one which I think was extraordinary and that's as long as one as I can remember.
But I don't think the prospects of that is very high personally.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Two questions one for Patrick.
Can you talk a little bit about the cash cycle dynamics particularly with the Government business and whether things are kind of fundamentally and permanently shifting with regard to cash advances from the government? And then the second question is for Clay.
Can you talk a little bit about upcoming competitions in the business jet market? Maybe explain to us where competitions might be coming up and who you think the competitors are going to be there for those competition.
Jason as it relates to the cash cycle the way I describe it is there hasn't been any fundamental changes to the way we bill or collect from the government.
Now I would say this that the turbulence that's been created this year has clearly impacted the process.
One of them -- I'll give you -- a great example is I think virtually every government contractor has lost the ability to direct to bill to electronically bill the government which has added a few days to the collection cycle for us.
Now that to me that's not a fundamental shift.
That's a temporary thing as we work through some issues with the government but no real fundamental changes.
To your question to me I can't talk specifically to those competitions because our customers prefer that we not do that.
They like to control the release of what they're doing relative to new product upgrades and there's -- that's a -- something that they hold very dear and I would not want to break that trust.
One thing I can say in general is almost every year we have some number of either new programs or program extensions that go on in that market and so you can probably expect that something is going on almost all the time.
The relative volume changes as the economic circumstances do but there'll be something in there.
And then who's going to be there? All the usual suspects.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> As far as the you said the volume how was it looking over the next 12 months relative to the recent past? Right now I'd say it's sort of less than the recent past.
We've seen an awful lot of new products awarded and introduced over the last 3 4 5 years.
So I'd say the relative volume of new airplanes are a little lower than normal.
Your next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
It's actually Mike Sang in for Heidi.
I wanted to follow up on the prior question and maybe ask it in a different way.
If I look at the growth rates for OE versus aftermarket it looks like growth is really accelerating at OE and sort of flattish sequentially aftermarket.
Can you talk roughly about what you're seeing in the marketplace and how you think of the trajectory of OE going forward? I'm just trying to think about maybe the longer-term margin implication of that.
Well if you're looking at very long term like beyond fourth quarter I think you can look at all of the announced production rate increases for air transport and even improved market conditions that we expect on business jets and say the environment looks very positive for OE for about as far as you can reasonably see into this cycle.
In fact it almost couldn't be more positive.
And in some ways the direction it's going with OE leading in air transport and kind of being followed by biz jet actually helps support that longer-term push.
If you look at aftermarket I think aftermarket always has a bubble that says there's the initial pent-up demand for re-sparing and for pent-up demand for retrofits.
And then it kind of calms down to a steady state.
And so I would expect to see a continuous improvement in OE kind of a bubble in aftermarket and then a steady state growth after that is the way I would characterize it.
And on the $63 million in deferred in the delayed funding on the Government front is that something you felt typically come in as a chunk? Or does it kind of layer itself back in over several quarters? I think it will.
I believe we'll likely see that layer itself back in over this quarter and next.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I have just 2 and I'll try to keep them simple one's strategic and one's sort of near end.
Patrick could you help us a little bit with book-to-bill in military in the quarter permit systems and then I'll go to the strategic one second.
I would say this we don't talk too much about quarterly orders.
I would say that the orders were slightly below our expectations this quarter and it manifests itself in sales.
In terms of the impact on long-term backlog I'm not too concerned about it.
Inc.</strong> And then on a strategic basis it's sort of largely can -- as you've seen this environment change Clay has it caused you to think about changing the aperture of the Defense business? I mean clearly you've done a number of things already whether it be iForce or SATCOM or stimulators.
With some of the technology and the opportunities that you have how do you think about what's in front of you so that you can leverage what you've got? Well I would say it's caused me to change the aperture because I would say a couple of things Howard.
First thing we've seen this trajectory coming over the last year or 2.
And so we're already looking at investing in those areas where we think there is going to be priority and there's going to be profit.
I want to caution again don't take one quarter and assume that's the next 2 or 3 years because I don't believe that's the case.
I think we got a great Government business.
I think we're positioned in the right areas.
I think most of the contracts we have are in the areas that they're going to want commercial-type products fixed price willingness to share the risk.
That's where we live.
I still feel very good about our mix and about the areas where we've invested in the government sales.
This is -- this quarter is a bump in the road.
And to your point I welcome your questions because we want to make it clear.
I think it would be unfortunate to take this result and presume this very excellent business now is being put into different trajectory.
So will we? Yes tweak where we invest.
And what we invest in we always do that.
But I think in the main I like where we are and this is going to be a very solid cash generating high margin business for this company for a long time.
If you go back to last August you'd actually look for the business to be down or up maybe 2 for the year.
So if you're down one that's kind of not that bad given the uncertainties.
Yes.
And look at the uncertainty.
If you take this continuous resolution anomaly combine it with those terminations and you never plan on terminations guess where we'd be? We'd be up about 1% to 2% maybe 1%.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert with Wedbush.
Clay I just wanted to follow up on a comment you made early on in the presentation regarding you're starting to see on the commercial aftermarket specifically on the transport side much more or increased spending on what you call the efficiency programs.
Can you just talk about the direction and sort of where we are in terms of what you're hearing from airlines on nondiscretionary or discretionary as well as what you term the efficiency spending in terms of the aftermarket outlook? Well I don't know how to answer the question more than what I did.
And that is that we've not seen -- we've seen some MRO basic come back but we haven't seen a lot of what I'd call discretionary product upgrades until -- in fact this was a big first quarter for that.
And so I think what that suggests is this pent-up demand as the airlines look at upgrading their systems to be more efficient in what they know is going to be a higher-fuel environment is most of the driver in that area.
And we expect some of that to continue.
We had already seen that in the biz jet market because we had if you recall earlier in the year very high levels of that kind of upgrades for business aircraft.
And now it's beginning to come into the airline.
It is notoriously lumpy so we're going to see some quarters that are up and down.
But I think over the next year I think that's an area of good growth for us.
Okay.
And clearly longer-term but you get a sense that NextGen air traffic control technology and ADS-B will get embraced by the airlines as they see the efficiencies and the fuel-savings opportunities? Well I think they will embrace it if they know they do see those efficiencies.
One of the problems we have now is that the basic infrastructure and the rules governing the use of that are not well in place or understood by the airlines.
And so they don't want to buy it and they-will-come type mentality.
They want to know that if they'd make that expenditure they get a pretty much guarantee that the government's going to be there with those systems to allow them those efficiencies.
That is not clear right now because we don't have an FAA authorization bill.
Because -- or I think some people doubt whether NextGen is going to be funded on schedule.
Until that's made clear I don't think things like ADS-B are necessarily going to be the drivers.
I think it going to be more GPS-related point-to-point required navigation performance preferred routing into areas things like heads-up displays that give them more certainty of going into airports are the kind of things I'm talking about which are products that we have a lot of.
Great.
And just one final question on the government side.
Any change in your outlook? Or are you seeing any incremental opportunities for the iForce product? Yes.
In fact we're going to see a really good quarter this quarter on iForce.
The California Highway Patrol has ordered another group of these systems to actually put on their motorcycles because they like what they have so far.
So we just -- we kind of ran into a really bad comparable this quarter where we had very few deliveries while we're waiting for that order to come in and we had a huge delivery rate a year ago.
So that's why that sort of comparable hit is but we'll probably generate about 80% of the iForce sales this year than we did last year even with that big delivery.
And your final question comes from the line of Peter Arment with Gleacher &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> Clay just quickly.
Regarding the strength you're seeing in the commercial aftermarket is it broad-based around the globe international versus domestic? Or are you seeing any differences in terms of behavior amongst the large guys here in the U.S.? Well first thing it is broadly global and generally where the airplanes are flying a lot and they're flying a lot especially over in Asia Middle East areas like that.
So it is a broad global move the we see in the area.
What I would say about what's happening in the U.S.
now is that there is an increased awareness of efficiencies as the airlines are beginning to consolidate and rationalize what it takes to make money.
I think some of the airline consolidations are helping.
I think some of the -- again I'll site American Airlines this quarter a very a big investment and move they're making specifically around fleet modernization and efficiency.
And so some of this aftermarket goes toward those efficiencies not near as big and glorious as announcement of 400-something airplanes but the same mentality is feeding some of that discretionary aftermarket.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just regarding on the biz jet side you mentioned you saw that on the discretionary piece coming back.
I mean historically you mentioned it kicks around in terms of strength for a couple of quarters before you get to steady state is that the way we should interpret your comments? In the biz jet area I think it's a different dynamic now because of the relatively high number of used aircraft.
Even though those are coming down a little bit people are still trying to move those airplanes.
And that's creating a good -- that has been creating for the last couple of quarters a very good discretionary aftermarket for us as people either fix those aircraft up to make them more sellable or buy an aircraft at a very good rate and then spend a few more dollars to upgrade it.
And so that's what's been the driving influence there.
And I think as long as we have this sort of slow recovery you're going to see a sort of a continuation of that discretionary opportunity in business aircraft.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thank you Darla.
We plan to file our 10-Q on Monday so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
I want to thank everyone for joining us and participating in today's conference call.
This concludes Rockwell Collins Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to Rockwell Collins Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Lindsay and hello everyone.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today at our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I'll turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
As the last quarter of our fiscal year 2011 ends I'm happy to report that at least some order has been restored to the universe.
After experiencing the unusual events that influenced our third quarter results fourth quarter performance was in line with our expectations and hopefully restored confidence in our ability to achieve the targets that we set for this company.
Considering the current market conditions that we're operating under I'm pleased with our performance and the results that we posted this quarter.
Now as I reflect back on fiscal year 2011 it certainly was a dynamic period marked with unexpected developments.
Early on we saw delays in the Boeing 787 and the KC-46 program impact each of our businesses.
Then concerns about the U.S.
budget deficit began to put pressure on the defense budget causing delays in government spending as we operated under a continuing resolution for more than 6 months of the year.
Finally budget pressures drove the Department of Defense to cancel 3 of our programs for convenience in the third quarter.
Now through all of this I believe we did a pretty good job navigating these storms delivering sales and operating cash flow within the original -- the guidance targets that we set at the beginning of the year.
Earnings per share above the top end of that initial range.
In fact several times over the past decade we've demonstrated the capability to take steps necessary to manage through market-down cycles and create a stronger better positioned company for the ensuing recovery.
Restructuring actions we took this quarter are indicative of steps that we take to align our infrastructure to market conditions.
So as I look forward to fiscal year 2011 our balanced business model is again expected to be a valuable asset.
Growth in Government Systems will continue to be challenged for the foreseeable future due to general market conditions.
And while there is uncertainty surrounding the actions of Congress and the DOD and what they might do we will focus on the things that are more controllable such as profitability and cash flow performance.
Over the next few years sales may be increasingly difficult to predict in any given quarter in Government Systems.
For example FY '12 sales for Government Systems are expected to be down low double-digits in the first half of the year followed by mid-single-digit growth in the second half.
However even with that sales volatility we believe we can manage the business to sustain industry-leading operating margins and generate the strong cash flows typical of our government business.
Fortunately the other half of our company is positioned very well just as all leading indicators point to solid commercial market growth.
In air transport both Airbus and Boeing continue to build their backlogs and have announced rate increases across almost all of their product line.
Even with the recent delays in the economic recovery we've yet to see any meaningful slowdown in passenger traffic.
In the business jet market utilization is up and inventories have used aircraft for sale and used aircraft pricing have stabilized.
This market continues to be strong at the high-end but we now have a growing presence on the Bombardier Global 5000 and 6000 aircraft the future positions just announced this month on their 7000 and 8000 models.
We're also seeing signs of improvement with some of the midsized jets beginning to increase rates like the Challenger 300 at Bombardier.
And demand for light jets is at least supporting the current production rates.
At the National Business Aircraft Association Office earlier this month we announced an important new development for our Pro Line Fusion product line.
With the certification of the core architecture completed we're taking the next step to make the robust features designed into the system available for light jets and turboprop aircraft with our Pro Line Fusion embedded display system.
This will allow our product line to scale from intercontinental business jets that's already highly successful all the way down to single-engine aircraft.
This product extension will be available as an upgrade option for the highly successful Hawker Beechcraft King Air.
So for fiscal year 2012 the strong commercial OEM production forecast along with the ramp and deliveries of hardware for our market share gains on the Boeing 787 the 747-8 Bombardier Globals and Gulfstream 280 should drive an increase in OEM revenues in the low teens.
We expect Commercial Systems aftermarket to also grow at low double-digits fueled by aircraft utilization errors related to the new Boeing aircraft increased retrofit activity.
Due to its high leverage Commercial Systems operating margin should increase about 250 basis points.
This incremental Commercial Systems profitability coupled with sustained Government Systems margin performance and enhanced share repurchases are expected to produce earnings per share growth at more than 3x our projected revenue growth.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Patrick to walk through the specifics of our results and projections for 2012.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
Let's get started by first revealing the total company results.
They're shown on slides 3 and 4.
Total sales for the quarter increased 2% compared to last year's sales.
Our net income and earnings per share increased 17% and 20% respectively.
This increase in net income and earnings per share came primarily from the additional earnings and the increased volume operating margin expansion across both segments and the lower income tax rate.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter decreased from 32.1% in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 27.9% in the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily due to the extension of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit and increased benefit from the recurring domestic manufacturing reduction.
Fourth quarter earnings per share and net income include an $0.11 or $17 million after-tax gain on the divestiture of the Rollmet business as well as an offsetting restructuring charge of $0.11 or $17 million.
The restructuring charge recorded during the quarter related to certain asset impairments facility rationalization and employee severance costs.
Turning to slides 5 and 6 we show the fourth quarter results of our Commercial Systems business which achieved a revenue increase of 9% from $473 million in 2010 to $517 million in 2011.
Sales -- aircraft original equipment manufacturers increased $37 million or 16% to $268 million.
Air transport OEM sales increased $12 million or 11% due to increased avionics deliveries resulting from higher Boeing and Airbus production rates.
Business and regional OEM sales increased $25 million or 21% mostly due to higher equipment sales for the Bombardier Global business jet aircraft.
Commercial aftermarket sales increased $6 million or 3% in the fourth quarter while full year 2011 aftermarket sales were up 14%.
The MRO or non-discretionary aftermarket continued its strength in the quarter and increased by 6%.
The discretionary aftermarket which has been the strongest grower throughout the year was relatively flat this quarter due 2 things that occurred last year.
We delivered Project Liberty spares and had a large delivery of some simulated components.
Both of which did not recur this year.
Excluding the impact of those 2 items our total aftermarket sales would've increased by 8% over the fourth quarter of last year.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased $22 million or 28% to $101 million and operating margins expanded 280 basis points from 16.7% to 19.5% of sales.
Improvement in operating earnings and margins was primarily driven by higher earnings on the increased revenue volume which was partially offset by an increase in company credit research and development and selling general and administrative costs.
Moving on to Page 7 Government Systems' fourth quarter revenues were down 2% from $798 million in 2010 to $779 million in 2011.
In the fourth quarter of this year we began classifying our Government System sales in the 4 product categories: Avionics Communication Products Surface Solutions and Navigation Products.
This change was made to provide better clarity into our revenue drivers specifically during a time where market dynamics are driving increased revenue volatility.
Please see the supplemental information in our press release for prior period results presented in the current sales categories.
For the quarter Avionic sales increased $4 million or 1% to $414 million and represent 51% of the total Government Systems sales for the year.
The increase in Avionics was driven by higher sales for the KC-46 tanker and E-6 aircraft upgrade programs partially offset by the completion of deliveries for the U.S.
Air Force KC-135 GATM upgrade program.
Communication Product sales declined by $14 million or 7% and make up 25% of total Government Systems sales for 2011.
The decline was due the completion of 2 satellite communication programs last year.
Surface Solutions increased $2 million or 2% to $97 million and represent 13% of total Government Systems sales for the year.
The increase was due to higher deliveries of our iForce public safety vehicle systems and increased revenue for the CRIIS program which were partially offset by the impact of 2 programs terminated for convenience that we announced last quarter.
Sales of navigation products decreased 12% to $80 million due to fewer deliveries of our DAGR hand-held GPS products.
Navigation products represent about 11% of total sales for 2011.
Page 8 shows Government Systems' fourth quarter operating earnings which increased slightly to $170 million in 2011 with operating margins expanding 60 basis points from 21.2% to 21.8%.
The increase in operating earnings and margin was primarily due to increased operating efficiencies partially offset by reduced earnings and the lower sales.
On Slide 9 we have our full year 2011 total company financial results for sales EPS net income and operating cash flow.
Of note on this slide is our 15% increase in earnings per share while revenue increased by 4%.
The primary drivers of the robust earnings per share growth were a 90 basis-point increase in total segment operating margins a lower income tax rate and fewer outstanding shares.
Additionally operating cash flow end of the year was $657 million or 104% of net income.
We generated strong cash flow during the fourth quarter due to increased net income significant collections of accounts receivable and lower production inventory.
Specifically unbilled receivables' net of progress payments came down $76 million in the quarter and ended the year lower than 2011.
Moving to Slide 10 shows the status of our capital structure.
At the end of 2011 we had $528 million in long-term debt outstanding as compared to $24 million of short-term borrowings and $525 million in long-term debt at the end of fiscal 2010.
Ending the year we had a debt to total capital ratio of 26%.
We're comfortable at this level which in combination with our investment grade credit ratings provides us the ability of fund growth needs or additional share repurchases in a cost-effective manner.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of 2011 is detailed on Slide 11.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased a total of 900 000 shares at an average cost of $52.10 per share.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to 63 million shares or $3 billion return to shareowners through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
During the fourth quarter our Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization by $700 million.
And we plan to fund $200 million -- $250 million of those share repurchases through the incurrence of additional debt.
Now onto our final slide Slide 12 where we provide the details of our fiscal year 2012 financial guidance which have remained unchanged from when we originally released it on September 15 2011.
A few things to note regarding our 2012 guidance.
Total company sales are expected to decline modestly in the first half of the year driven by the headwinds in Government Systems and should be followed by high single-digit revenue growth in the second half of the year.
Based on this revenue profile we're expecting total operating margins to be about flat in the first quarter of 2012 when compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Additionally earnings per share guidance range of $4.40 to $4.60 is based on effective tax rate of about 30% for the full year.
We expect that tax rate to be lumpy across the quarters in 2012 and to be higher in the first quarter at about 33%.
That EPS guidance also includes approximately $4 million of headwind for pension expense which is based on a discount rate which we set at 4.43%.
Pension expenses is much less sensitive to discount rate changes because we froze benefits for all participants.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Patrick.
In order to give everyone an opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit yourself to 2 questions per caller.
If you have further questions simply reinsert yourself in the queue and we'll answer those as time permits.
Operator we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen And Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So you gave us 4 different buckets for the government business.
Could you give us a little bit of color in terms of what we should expect for those? And maybe some color quarterly patterns of significance? You mean in the 2012 Cai? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes I would say in general as we've seen this year our Avionics business is going to be the positive driver next year.
We think that's going to be up nicely.
And I think we've suggested that -- hang on just a second here.
I think we've suggested that that will stay positive for the whole year.
I think the variability we're going to see next year a lot of that's going to come from the surface systems and the communication portfolios.
As these canceled programs ripple through the first half of the year we get better comps frankly in the second half of the year.
And then the big drivers next year are going to be things like all the tanker programs the KC-46 the KC-10 the KC-390.
We're going to see some improvements as a result of the Saudi F-15 and then we'll see some simulator uppers.
We've got some new simulator programs coming in next year.
That’ll help in that area.
And almost all of those are in the Avionics area.
And then the final sort of downer we've talked about is the DAGR program that's going to hurt the navigation most significantly because of that production being cut roughly in half.
That gives you a sense of the ebb and flow with Avionics that largest chunk really carrying the water next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then could you give us -- this is for Patrick maybe an update in terms of where was deferred engineering in the year and what kind of growth do you expect in 2012? Yes the deferred engineering was up about $120 million this year in FY '11.
And it's going to go up a similar amount next year and then I expect it to come down after that.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
First on the restructuring.
You didn't change the top line guidance for next year but presumably the restructuring efforts signal that you're protecting for some sort of risk there.
How do we -- what does this imply in terms of how you're thinking about next year on the top line? And is there more risk in one side of the house versus the other? Well I think we've pretty much -- I think you can kind of intuit the risk for next year.
Obviously the uncertainty surrounding the government business -- by the way where all the restructuring actions are really directed is the one we're most watchful of.
We think we've got it sized right but let's face it there's a lot of turbulence going on that we all know only too well.
And so I'd say if there is still risk remaining we are most watchful on the government side.
On the commercial side actually I feel pretty good.
I think the risk and opportunities are very well-balanced there.
Probably the 2 most watchful risk on the commercial side are what's going to happen at the low end of the business jet market.
We feel very confident about the high and the mids.
But coming out of the National Business Aircraft Association Conference we're seeing maybe a little sign of life at the low end but not sufficient to make anybody giddy yet.
So I think there's a little bit of variability there.
The other thing we're watchful of is the ramp rate of 787.
We have a couple of things going there and that is Boeing's just ability to go up that ramp curve that they seem to be pretty confident of.
So we feel good about that.
The other thing we're looking at is potential of synchronization of their inventories.
Because of our performance on the 787 we've actually delivered out well ahead of where they are right now.
And depending on where all those lines meet out in the future it may mean that even though they're ramping up in the production of the aircraft they may not ramp up some of us suppliers that are that far ahead as quickly as they do.
There is a modest amount of risk there.
But I would say all of those commercial risks are well within our guidance range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And on the aftermarket.
Patrick thanks for the commentary about the quarter.
I wonder if you were to break it into similar pieces discretionary and nondiscretionary and look ahead to '12? What sort of trends do you see playing out in those 2 areas based on what you can see today in order flow? Is there any immaterial change in what you're seeing? I'll take that one Carter.
First thing I'll tell you I'm very confident in the MRO part of our aftermarket in the future.
That's been -- that was very predictable this year in '11.
I think it's reasonably predictable next year as long as traffic growth and the fleet structures and mix that we see right now go through.
Obviously the thing if you follow this company forever that we've always said is the most unpredictable part of our entire business is that discretionary aftermarket.
That stuff comes and goes.
And you saw little bit of that this quarter.
In this case because of comparability that we had over fourth quarter a year ago which is really the first big early indicator of some of the pent-up demand and unique programs that Pat talked about that we delivered into.
My guess is you'll see some of that variability through the year next year.
But I think if you see the whole body of work next year we're still very confident that the demand we see out there for efficiency improvements and with the sparing that we know is going to happen on the new 787 747-8 coming in there that that low double-digit looks pretty good obviously highly influenced by the strength of the discretionary aftermarket.
Research Division</strong> Okay and on the Project Liberty piece are there tails of that that continue into the next couple of quarters? Or is that largely behind us this quarter? Clay's right.
It's largely behind us now.
That fourth quarter year ago was the last big delivery.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about the lower end of biz jet and the strong move we've seen from Garmin at the same time perhaps juxtapose that against what you're doing from a share perspective regarding your major competitor at the high end and how this all falls out? Well yes -- no I don't know how it all falls out but I've tried to give you my directional view.
Well first thing complements to Garmin.
They've done a really nice job with a good product to getting themselves established at Cessna.
And we've been seeing that coming for some time and you saw it again in NBAA with the positions they've picked up there.
My guess is you're going to continue to see them in the market.
They're a formidable competitor.
We're taking them very seriously as you could tell.
And I would expect that they're going to be a tough competitor going forward.
We realize that.
And because we realize that you've seen us introduce a dramatic new product which I talked about in my opening statement.
We're very bullish on that we've got tremendous market buzz about early this month when we were at NBAA.
We think we have some advantages in that regard now that we've come out with that product and we know there's a date certain for it.
If there's anything that we probably have suffered under is that we've been so involved and so engaged in coming out with a new Pro Line Fusion that's just been tremendously well-received in the market that you can't be all things to all people and we had to wait until we got through the basic core architecture before we could move to this new Pro Line Fusion EDS System.
Now we have turned our attention to that after we've got infusion-certified.
We know that will be out and available at the end of '13.
And so I suspect in any future competition that involves that size and scale airplane that we're going to be a worthy competitor.
Now I think the situation at Cessna is a little bit unique and that they've obviously had to make a very rapid response to the competitive pressures.
We did not have that product in the marketplace.
And so we weren't able to meet their needs in the timeframe they had to have it.
My belief Rob is that now that Cessna has made that decision that they're going to be hard pressed to have the engineering breadth and capability to work on 2 avionic systems at one-time.
So if they do this anymore the future I would full well expect that Garmin is probably going to be their supplier of choice.
In the meantime we're working very hard at other OEMs like Bombardier and Embraer where we have very good positions to make sure that we grow our share there.
Long and short of it is I think the amount of share we're picking up with Fusion already for the next 5 years and now anything we win would be sort of beyond that 4 or 5-year window I believe will more than offset any losses that we might see in that one OEM.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then from a very high strategic level play and recognizing that you've just had a major share repurchase increase in your authorization.
But with the valuation lagging as it has and I'm sure you feel the company is undervalued how -- what needs to happen in the numbers and over what time frame for that valuation to re-rate and what I would guess you would think is in a more appropriate matter? And then -- or is there a point at which you might consider strategic alternatives? Well first of all I think there's no ambiguity by anybody about the strength of our commercial business.
I think we've got a very solid track record over a lot of years and investments we've made and the share we've won on these new program platforms across all markets and across the world positions that commercial business for years of stellar performance ahead.
Clearly the overhang on our company and therefore probably the stock price is the uncertainty around the government business.
I think at some point that uncertainty will be relieved in part.
But I would tell you just looking ahead at things like super committee and presidential elections.
And I'll say the flow of the first half versus second half of this year my guess is that it's going to be 4 to 6 months before any of us feel comfortable about what that future looks like in the future.
In the meantime the only thing I can do until that macro uncertainty is lifted is to focus on our performance.
You have a great business here that is growing in many areas and in fact its strongest area of Avionics will continue to grow.
It produces industry-leading profit margins which we believe we can maintain and great cash flow to fuel the other operations business.
This company is in very strong shape and so I think as soon as that uncertainty is lifted I believe the true value of this company will be realized and hopefully appreciated in the equity markets.
Relative to the last part of your question I don't feel any urgency to look at "strategic alternatives" because I believe in inherent strength for this business as it has performed for the last 10 years.
And as I know it can perform well into the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Heidi Wood with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's Mike Sang in for Heidi.
I wanted to follow up on the restructuring question earlier.
I imagine there's some benefit to margins going forward.
Could you talk about where you expect to see that and whether that benefit was contemplating guidance? It was contemplating in the guidance Mike.
And in basically those are the actions that give us confidence that we can sustain the Government Systems' margins in the teeth of modest declining revenues.
You saw that last quarter where Government Systems' margins actually went up.
With the declining sales you saw it this quarter fourth quarter where the margins went up in the face of declining sales.
And so with the pro-activity we're doing to make sure we size our infrastructure to the realities of the market that should give you confidence that that very high roughly 21% margin rate you've seen out of the Government Systems can be sustained.
So that's the benefit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then secondly I guess there's pretty big sequential ramp in government revenue and I realize that some of that is just a seasonal bump up.
Could you talk about the gives and takes in that ramp? And whether there's residuals from delayed awards from third quarter in there? And can you just parse out what's related to that and what's organic? Well it's all organic.
But I understand intent to your question.
Well first thing the fourth quarter is always the big quarter in Government Systems.
I think this quarter was particularly interesting with the flurry of activities that we saw at the Pentagon as a result of the overhang of the continuing resolution.
And I would say some of that I'm not going to give a percentage or a number but some of that was catch back from the continuing resolution.
And also it's sort of -- that ramp up gives you a sense of why when we suggested our revised guidance at the end of third quarter when we saw the effect of the continuing resolution high relative confidence in the Department of Defense being able to handle all of that procurement activity in the short period of time.
I mean just to get that amount of ramp-up was pretty heroic to get that much funds flow but they just couldn't do any more than that.
And that's why we begin -- ended up seeing that relative impact of the CR within our fiscal year period.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the Commercial Systems' OEM business? It looks like now we've had I guess 3 quarters in a row kind of $125 million to $130 million give or take.
And when do you expect to see that start to benefit from the ramp-up we're seeing from the OEMs? Well I think it's already benefiting from that to a certain extent.
And are you talking both segments or just air transports Sam? LLC Research Division</strong> I'm talking specifically air transport because actually on the business jet and OEM side it looks like you actually had a sequential downtick from some of the Global over the summer? Yes well that's true.
Let me just side bar address that if I can Sam.
It is very usual in the business jet market to see a flat or down fourth -- our fiscal fourth quarter because that's the part of the year where a lot of the biz jet manufacturers especially if they're European or Canadian kind of go on holiday.
And so there is just a relatively lower production rate that's historic there.
I think this one was particularly acute sequentially because we had a big slug of red to black conversion at Bombardier for the certification of that fusion product that kind of went out the door in the third quarter.
But relative to the air transport segment I think what you're going to see is an increasing ramp up in the sort of back half of '12 and on into '13 as 2 things happen.
As one specifically Boeing gets traction on the new 787 and 747-8 and as we sort of synchronize these inventories I'm talking about we had expected some lag anyway.
Right now we're delivering at 2 aircraft per month.
Boeing is already higher than that on the 787.
And so when they say go for us to ramp up it will be when they see that the inventory levels are at a point they need to be.
And so I think that points to the back half of '12.
And then between there and the end of '13 where they're going to reach 10 per month I think you could see a very good acceleration in that in those aircraft contributing to us.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thank you and then just on the Government Systems.
You talked about these 3 programs that were canceled for termination for convenience.
Is there any sort of a benefit or recouping of costs that you would have received and whether that would happen in this fourth quarter or does that even continue further? I would say that -- any benefit or recoup we are going to get is going to be fairly modest.
And we're still in the process of negotiating that.
It will probably happen sometime over the course of FY '12.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Clay my sense is that you've been anticipating a difficult environment for JTRS.
But might you address the cancellation of the program and what you're going to do to take advantage of the opportunity it presents? Sure.
Well we anticipated to the point we took it out of our plan in '12 when we gave our guidance in September.
So we clearly saw this direction coming from the Army and the DOD and it has manifested itself just as we saw it coming.
First thing I'd say it's unfortunate that the Army felt compelled to do that.
Obviously requirements change and we understand that that happens.
But we were pretty close to the finish line on that very formidable capability.
But nevertheless that's the decision they made.
But what that does do is it says as they recast what the future program is going to be which today I would tell you there's some degree of ambiguity around.
But as they recast that we believe that at least the experience that we've gained to date and the knowledge we have around the ultimate capabilities that they may want in that networking radio should put us in pretty good stead to be able to be competitive for whatever follow-on is.
Now it's my sense that it's going to take a year or 2 for them to put that new program in place so it's going to be a while before it gets material.
In the meantime obviously we'll continue to work on handheld manpacks small form-factor of the HMS and that seems to enjoy very good support with -- in the Army.
So we're going to be positioning for that Howard.
I can't really tell you much about the program because it doesn't exist yet as the Army is sort of regrouping.
But I have a lot of confidence in our capabilities.
We'll see how they restructure it.
And that will largely determine what we might do.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then as a follow-up sometimes when you rearrange businesses you also end up charging leadership with new missions.
And now you have 4 business units to sort of focus on.
What are you asking the leaders of these operations to do? And how do you think they're going to take sort of some of that entrepreneurial charge and go after opportunities? Yes.
Well we're doing like I think a lot of companies are doing.
As partner -- first thing we're asking is to be very agile because things are changing pretty quickly.
We believe in times of chaos like this there's obviously risk but there's great opportunity.
Those companies that have a legacy capability to fit the work Fighters needs.
So we're asking them to look for those opportunities and ensure that the full strength of Rockwell Collins is brought to bear there.
As the DOD shifts in this era of more fixed price contracting shifting the risk to contractors looking for more cost advantage we've all heard those things come out of DOD.
I think our company is very well-structured because we have a host of opportunities on our commercial side that can be delivered.
If you look at the KC-46 tanker half of the content Rockwell Collins is delivering comes from our Commercial Systems business.
Half of it.
So I think there are many more opportunities like that for our businesses to work together to fit these new more frugal needs of the DOD.
And then the last thing we're saying is make sure that you're serious as you can to be about international opportunities.
There's a lot of new emerging markets that understand they're going to have to probably take care of themselves in the future as U.S.
pulls back.
And we have a lot of legacy capability we can offer some of these emerging markets.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Where did the backlog for the year end up for the government business? The backlog that will be disclosed in our 10-K is going to be down slightly.
What I would say is though our orders were on plan so it was -- it kind of played out as we expected but you're going to see a slight decline in our backlog.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess Clay this is touched on but I wanted to get a little bit more specific on the details.
The first half versus the second half in government it's pretty easy to see why the first half on a comp basis is under pressure from the cancellation.
But I guess what I'm curious is the first the second half growth over the first half is implied to be 25% to 30%.
So just looking at that in isolation as opposed to the year-on-year comps are there -- is there certain programs you can point to that really kick in that second half? And how much risk are we taking on the back of the continuing resolution and a prolonged budgetary struggles and what we saw this year? Because that kind of seasonality first half versus second half growth we haven't seen that type of growth out of you as far back as I can tell? Yes like I said this was an extraordinary year for a lot of reasons Myles and I can understand how we're all sort of resetting our historic parameters as a result of that.
But let me answer both of your questions in turn.
First of all we can pinpoint to very specific growth elements that will fuel that second half.
I'd mentioned a few of them before.
All the tanker programs KC-46 is ramping up KC-10 is ramping up and the KC-390 down in Brazil is ramping up.
And those will be very predictable very substantial ramps and also programs that enjoy a lot of priority.
We feel great about those.
We have a number of simulator programs we're going after that we have won or that we're after that ramp up in that second half.
And I would say we feel pretty good about those.
Most of those are in backlog and we're just waiting for the expansion of that business activity.
Instead of one big program there is I'd say 2 3 or 4 of those programs that we see going up.
We have the Saudi F-15 sale.
And that product that we've provided the F-15 we're already working on ahead of the contract with Boeing and we expect that to come through.
And then we have a very strong product that we call FireStorm which is a Forward Air Controller product.
It's been particularly attractive to a lot of those emerging markets that I talked about before as they strengthen their forward ability.
And especially in the Middle East we have a lot of orders that we'll be delivering through the year but mostly in the back half of next year.
So those will be the big drivers that help fuel that second half of the year.
And again in every single one of those there's sort of existing programs either development programs that enjoy high priority or existing programs where we just see a logical ramp.
On the second -- I'm just going to answer the second part of your question about the continuing resolution.
We are not planning on a continuing resolution that lasts as long as it did last year.
If it does it's going to have some impact.
We're trying to size what that impact is.
But that's awful hard to do.
What I would say right now we're hoping that and planning that there is not an extended CR this year.
If there is then we're going to have to face that as get about halfway through the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Patrick could we dig into the inventories a little bit? About half of the inventory growth was the deferred engineering.
But if you look at the other half I mean your sales were up 4%.
What area of the inventory do you still think might be too high or are they too high? And then what's your plan there embedded into your cash flow plan for 2012? Yes I would say this.
I think we saw inventory growth across a number of different categories.
Production stock increased probably for 2 reasons.
One was a lot of the programs being delayed on the Government Systems side that were unexpected.
In addition we did have a little ramp up related to the Japanese earthquake as we built stock there.
I think those are both areas that are ripe for improvement next year.
I think we'll continue to focus on finished goods.
I think we did a pretty good job in the fourth quarter reducing our finished goods balance.
And I would -- the other thing I'd point to which is something that I -- we have much less control over is we saw a reduction in progress payments from our government customer.
And I think that's a reflection of some of the turbulence we saw in the procurement environment.
Plus I would say a change in the government procurement practices to just to focus more heavily on cash flow.
That may be an area where we're going to have less -- we'll have less direct control over.
So I'll look for opportunities in raw material and finished goods next year.
But we'll -- and we'll obviously need to continue to be agile due to the volatility in the government environment particularly.
Research Division</strong> And what's embedded in your plan specifically beyond the $120 million or so deferred engineering growth? What we're anticipating is we're anticipating the total inventory to be roughly flat with the rising sales environment.
Now do I think there's some opportunity to that? I'm hopeful that there is.
But that's what's in our current plan and in our cash flow forecast.
Research Division</strong> And that sorry Patrick that -- just to be specific.
That includes or excludes the $120 million of deferred engineering? That excludes the $120 million.
That's just the production inventory being flat.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And then the second question.
Clay has there been any have you seen any change or any inkling of a change in terms of the commercial pricing that you enjoy in your Defense business and the behavior of your customer? No not at all.
Not at all.
In fact if anything -- again if you look at that environment I just described earlier it would be crazy for the DOD to move away from commercial pricing at a time when they need that commercial efficiency in the department.
Could they do crazy things? I guess but we're seeing no inkling of pressure being brought to bear or acquisition rules being changed which is what we used to command most of the commercial pricing.
Research Division</strong> And they haven't been asking you for any more pricing or cost information for products that -- in which you produce commercially? I didn't say that.
But I wouldn't say have they asked more than they normally do no.
I think there's always a tendency to want to ask.
And typically we say that's not appropriate nor required by law.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> Clay you mentioned earlier that obviously the aftermarket was a little weaker this quarter than you thought it would be and it was due to the discretionary.
Two questions on that.
I guess this discretionary is very short cycle.
And then from a quantitative perspective can you give what percentage of the aftermarket discretionary normally turns out to be so we can get a chance at looking at the variability? Yes I'd say some of it is really short cycle George.
Some of it is a little bit more -- you see it coming.
For example all of the 787 spares.
I mean we know where those aircraft are going.
We're already in discussions with those customers.
Those can be least be predicted in relative order of timing.
Whereas others they call you up and they want 3 of something.
And so it is a variable across there.
If you were to look at that split right now I think we're -- right now because of -- actually of the strength of discretionary through the year we're about 60% nondiscretionary and about 40% discretionary which is a little bit stronger on the discretionary side than the sort of 2/3 1/3 we've talked about that has been our historical pattern.
Again I think that speaks specifically to this past fiscal year where we've seen a lot of that pent-up demand and interest in the discretionary items come back in and fuel that aftermarket growth.
By the way we expect that sort of split to carry into next year as well.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
And then one for you Patrick.
The outlook for incentive comp and company-funded R&amp;D in '12? What I would say is incentive compensation is going to be down slightly according to plan.
I mean we -- I think our path this year was 112%.
And we're forecasting 100% at the beginning of any year.
And company-funded R&amp;D I think is going to be about flat as a percentage of sales.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clay I was wondering if you could kick off on the Rollmet disposal.
Maybe some of the background to that and why you decided to sell that business at this point? Well Rollmet really never was very closely strategically aligned to the kind of thing that Rockwell Collins does.
It came to us via the Kaiser acquisition a number of years ago.
And I would say it was one of those no-harm no-foul businesses for a while where it was performing well.
It wasn't a focus to a lot of our management attention.
But as we should do from time to time we look at the structure of our infrastructure and whether or not we want to continue to invest in that.
They had been pretty successful up to that point but they were going to require some additional capital investment.
We continue to allow them to be successful and we just weren’t sure that's where we wanted to put it.
And so I think those are things that opened our eyes to the timing being probably right for them to go to a better home and I think that's where they are today.
So I think it worked out well for the company it was a nice little business while we had it but it just clearly was not a strategic fit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay and then secondly on the share buyback.
I was wondering if that the anticipated buyback is included in your guidance of fiscal '12? And I don't recall you taking out debt in the past of fund the buyback.
I was wondering what the thinking was behind that? Well I would say the short answer is yes the buyback is included in our guidance.
It's fully baked in there.
And from time to time we have incurred debt.
Now that debt has been sort of as a result of a mixture of share repurchases and acquisitions.
So it's not unprecedented that we're doing that.
And I would say that as we look at our balance sheet the flexibility that our balance sheet provides we see an opportunity there to enhance value for shareholders.
LLC Research Division</strong> And could you tell us has that debt been taken out? Or is that --you anticipate taking it out in the future? Well we have not incurred the debt yet.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> Clay can you give us a sense of how much initial sparing for 87 and 47-8 you've got included in your aftermarket forecast for low double-digit growth next year? I don't think we've disclosed that amount David.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no -- how much of an adder that is to next year? Any color at all? That's kind of what I said yes.
No it's in there.
It's going to be a cause or lumper but no we've not forecast that degree of granularity no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'll try another one.
On 787 on Sam’s question you talked about like coming through on the back half of the year.
Can you give us a sense of specifically what you've got baked in for rate increases on your side for 787 from -- to a month today? Well I won't give you the specific of what we have baked in.
But let me put it this way.
When we established our plan knowing of both the risk to get there and this probability of inventory adjustment we did bake in some discount to what the OEM alignment would be.
And again because I think that was a prudent risk to do which now looks like more likely that that risk will be realized.
So I'm not going to give you that number because I don't think -- it would inappropriately correlate what Boeing is saying and we are aligned with what Boeing's ramp up is in terms of their production of airplanes but that does not necessarily perfectly align in timing what our ramp rate will be.
Again because we're a victim of our success we're so far ahead of them in deliveries because we've been chopping right along while they've been getting that certified.
And I think there's going to be some rationalization this year.
The only thing I don't know David is exactly how much it's going to be but again let me reinforce it's accommodated within the guidance we've given.
Research Division</strong> Okay and one for Patrick.
Patrick can you give some color around the incremental margins in commercial in '12? It looks like based on your guidance you're assuming about low 40% range.
But I know you had some one-timers last year.
But just with the comp accrual being lower and your R&amp;D looking like it's going to be relatively stable from an absolute level I would've thought I would think incrementals to be actually a little bit higher than that.
Well we're looking at about a 250 basis point increase in margins for Commercial Systems which does get us to that 40% to 50% incremental margin area.
We've obviously had a ramp up of the 787 which comes at slightly lower margins.
I think that's contributing maybe to bringing it down to the lower end of the range.
But I feel pretty comfortable with that 40% to 50% incremental.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Clay you've been talking about relieving this macro uncertainty on the government side within the next few quarters.
I'm wondering what you think the answer to the new long-term growth trajectory of your government businesses once you know that answer? It wasn't terribly long ago you guys were saying low to mid-single digit longer-term.
We're are now looking at 3 out of 4 quarters double-digit negative organic and 2 consecutive years negative organic.
Those are becoming trends not anomalies.
So as we think about the forward longer-term for government what's the new baseline long-term growth rate for the business? I guess you can put that in the category of bad things happening to good people can't you Noah? My how the world has changed from what we thought it was going to be when we were looking at budgets just a year ago.
But this is the new reality and you're right there's going to be a new trajectory.
I think that's part of the problem is -- I'll tell -- you tell me where the defense budget is going to be I'll tell you where the trajectory is going to be.
Well none of us can do that right now right? And so here's what I can say.
First of all we've always said we can't define the market perfectly but we believe this business can outgrow the market.
If you look at what defense outlays had been so far this year they've gone down 4%.
We've got our businesses gone down about 2%.
So on that basis you can argue we're sort of holding our own.
When you look at what other defense companies are beginning to report there's a sort of a trend there that we're all going to drift down.
I would also tell you if you were to say look at this last quarter and if you were taking out the program terminations which affected us by about $29 million to $30 million and you accommodate for that the rest of the business grew 1%.
And so we are in a situation where the readjustment in the DOD and the programs that they eliminate is going to require all of us to readjust to a new baseline growth rate.
I have confidence when that pig goes through the Python as we have projected when you're looking at the back half of next year we're saying a business that at least for that period we ought to be able to grow at mid-single digits.
Now I'm not going to sit here and tell you that's a long-term growth rate.
But all I'm going to say is I think the inherent basic core strength of our government business should allow for growth once we get through this adjustment period.
Now it depends on if your definition is a long term of one year that's real hard to predict.
If it's 5 years I view positive growth out of this business over that period.
Research Division</strong> So you mentioned outlays down 4% you down 2%.
One can make the case so that it's shaping up more clearly that the fiscal '12 investment accounts and even fiscal '13 investment accounts are going to be down low to mid-single.
If that's -- if we continue to see that trend for a 3- to 4-year period should we think about that kind of 200 basis point differential putting you down low single in that kind of environment?  Or do you think you actually grow with investment down 3 to 4? Again I think that's going to end up being very program specific Noah.
I mean we've sort of suffered our part and given at the office already for some program terminations we can get through those program adjustments and get into programs that have reasonable modest growth domestically.
And if we're successful internationally as we think we will be for some of these emerging markets and our Legacy Products again I think we can establish a positive growth rate.
But that's the eternal conundrum right now.
Is that we're sort of living in the moment with all of this defense uncertainty.
And I can tell you -- I could give you 5 answers to that question and nobody out there is probably going to believe me anyway.
So what I'm going to do is focus on the inherent strengths of the business great margin performance great cash flow performance I'll get back to growth some day.
I think it's sooner than later but I'm not going to sit here and start predicting at this point in time long-term growth patterns because again it probably would be imprudent.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me ask one on the commercial side.
The company announced it was going to move down into the Part 23 market.
Can you talk about what your thinking was behind that strategy? Well first thing we see customers demanding more value and being able to provide that value in a different way.
That's the this new Pro Line Fusion EDS product line.
I think that not only provides value for our current customers but opens up new markets for us that we could address because of the price point and functionality that in the past we could not.
And so that really is the strategy of why we're going with this new product into those markets.
Research Division</strong> Does it have anything to do with Garmin specifically and trying to distract their investment dollars? No it has everything to do with what we see as market opportunities and customer demands.
And so no I don't think that's our motive.
Research Division</strong> Any thoughts on how much of that pie you can take? None that I want to share today.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a bit of an update on projects that you were doing for the California Highway Patrol last year there where are we in that product cycle in the sale cycle potentially into other markets? Yes that's the iForce public safety product there.
Well the first thing we had some nice deliveries in the fourth quarter.
It's a very emerging business It's a lumpy business.
And so I would expect there to be more sort of irregularity until we get that product very established.
What we're doing right now is we're looking at the potential product growth of that.
We're looking at how we distributed into the market.
That's the kind of a new thing for us how you bring that to market.
We've been very successful at these very large states that have sort of procurement agencies like California and Canada.
To really make this a business going forward there's got to be sales and marketing approach that's a little different than we've taken to date.
And that's what we’re looking at right now Jason.
Exactly how to do that what that's going to take.
And I'd say that's still very much in its formulative stages.
So we're probably not at the point where we can really share a lot of information with you yet just because we're still putting it together.
When we have that all together we'll obviously come out and give you a lot more granularity.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then this call has focused a lot on potential downside risks to your guidance for fiscal '12.
Can you talk a little bit about some of the opportunities that you see to realize you can outperform your fiscal '12? Yes well first on the government side I think we have a lot of opportunities in the international market that we're pursuing for the lot of our legacy products.
We've been very successful in pursuing aircraft upgrades especially on C-130s they're around the world.
We have a lot of comm products communication products that are in demand.
These new products that we're introducing like that FireStorm Forward Air Controller situation awareness product is very hot.
So that I think are the opportunities that we see around the government business.
On the commercial business I think it's more of the same.
The biggest opportunity we have there because a lot of that is pretty much locked-in is probably the variability around the aftermarket and especially discretionary aftermarket.
There is a sort of split going on on the spares on 787 whether they buy the initial spares or they go at power by the hour approach.
If they buy more initial spares that's actually an accelerated revenue and profitability opportunity although the long term is not as good.
So if we see it changing mix there that could be an upper.
And then a lot of the products that we're putting out for information management I think is in its growth and infancy stage.
And we see potential upside on that.
So I think all of those are examples of where we do have opportunity.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Clay I just had a pretty top-level question here on some of your comments about international.
Can you remind me of how much of your government revenues are international? And if you would could you comment a little bit on how you might see that trending over the next year next couple of years? And I know you've been talking and you're mentioning some opportunities.
And I was wondering if you just comment geographically where you're seeing the most strength? Yes the current international mix in government is about 20%.
And I'm not going to give you a target where we're going but we expect that to go higher.
Because of our focus and the opportunities and the fact that that's where the growth markets are.
Those growth markets as we see them are probably the highest growth markets we see are India Brazil Turkey Saudi Arabia South Korea are the areas of focus for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Carter Leake with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Clay I was wondering if you could just -- and also at a high level -- give us your opinion on how the super committee negotiations might play out? There's a lot of scary stuff being put out.
I know also including cancellation of the Air Force tanker project.
But just could you walk through where -- how -- could we go to full sequestration if we did what do you think might happen on the other side of that? Well I think you were asking anybody in Washington.
They don't know the answer to that.
But everybody's got an opinion so I'll offer you mine.
I was at a business roundtable meeting just 2 weeks ago and a number of members of Congress trooped through there and without exception on both sides of the aisle they're extraordinarily hopeful that they can get an agreement out of the super committee and that the House and Senate can pass it.
And the reason they're hopeful is what they don't need in Congress is another example of how they can't do their job up there.
And I think given the discontent in the country today not passing a bill to do that would be a worst-case scenario for Congress.
And so I'm hopeful as an optimist to do that.
However should they dig in and not be able to pass that and then we quote "do go to sequestration" you have to remember that the way the law is set up is the sequestration doesn't start to a year later from December.
And I think there is 0 chance that Congress will allow it to go to sequestration.
What they will do is buy them more time for yet more uncertainty to try to finally figure out what they're going to do and that will be another brinkmanship milestone that will drive them to do that.
But I just think because it's so extraordinarily bad public policy for everybody involved that even if the super committee can't agree and even if Congress can't pass it in December that they will somehow do what Congress has the authority to do which is change the direction between the time that happens and a time it's implemented a year later.
So that's my scenario.
Research Division</strong> And great that's helpful.
And then just one last one.
On NextGen ATC.
Are we going backwards? Any thoughts there? Well no I don't think we're going backwards but we're not going ahead near as fast as I or I believe the market needs us to go.
First thing there's a lot of good things happening in the rest of the world especially in Europe.
And so the idea of activities right onto the NextGen whether it's automatic surveillance broadcast here in the United States or what they're doing with Datacomms in Europe.
There is progress being made.
It's subtle it's slow it's incremental it's program-by-program.
I'd like to see it move faster.
But no I think we're making some progress.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Great.
Thanks Lindsay.
We plan to file our Form 10-K on or about November 16.
So please see that document for some additional notes and disclosures.
I'd like to thank everyone for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins First Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Darla and good morning everyone.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today at our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of the webcast presentation and from time to time in the Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Now with that I'll turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody on the line.
I'm pleased to report that our first quarter 2012 earnings were in line with our expectations.
Sales were down slightly while segment operating earnings increased by 2%.
Earnings per share decreased $0.09 but prior year results included a $0.13 benefit from the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit when compared to this year.
If you adjust for the differences in the R&amp;D tax credit our earnings per share would have been up 5%.
Now I understand that these headline numbers may look relatively unexciting.
But it gets a lot more interesting when you look below the headlines especially considering some of the market conditions we currently face.
For example in Commercial Systems sales increased 13% in the quarter with a robust 14% growth from both OEM and aftermarket segments.
And commercial operating margins expanded 170 basis points fueled by 41% incremental margins after excluding a favorable customer incentive release recorded last year.
During the first quarter we realized the benefit from initial 787 and 747-8 spare sales as these 2 new Boeing aircraft entered service.
In fact most of our aftermarket growth in both Commercial segments was the increased spare sales.
Now these sales while traditionally the lumpiest portion of our business are the type of additional volume that we expect to fuel double-digit aftermarket growth for the full year.
I would also note that this performance was delivered without the benefit of any meaningful overall business jet OEM market recovery.
Now meanwhile Government Systems was able to maintain their industry-leading operating margins above 20% despite a 10% or $67 million decline in sales.
In an environment where our top line has become more difficult to predict I'm really proud of our team's focus on the things within our control as we continue to take aggressive actions to rightsize the infrastructure of this business based on market conditions.
Now as we've been predicting we face one more quarter of difficult comparability in Government Systems as the effects of program cancellations and a large slowdown in procurement of our Defense Advanced GPS Receiver play through our top line.
However I am increasingly confident that the significant improvements we forecast for the second half of the fiscal year will happen.
And here's why.
We expect sales of the KC-46 KC-10 and KC-390 tanker programs to continue to accelerate through the year along with the F-15 foreign military sale through Boeing to Saudi Arabia.
We should also see growing sales of the fifth generation ARC-210 airborne radio system as well as increased deliveries of our FireStorm targeting system to international customers.
With the risk of an extending -- extended continuing resolution behind us and our backlog strengthening we believe Government Systems can achieve mid-single digit growth in the second half of the year.
Now as I look out beyond the current fiscal year I also see opportunities to accelerate growth in both segments.
In Commercial Systems these include 787 production ramp-up the introduction of the CSeries the A350 and multiple international regional jets and a market recovery for business jets.
In Government Systems I expect selected growth opportunities in areas such as tankers UAVs the JTRS HMS program ARC-210 radios our next-generation GPS products for the MGUE program and international opportunities including the Saudi F-15 I mentioned earlier helicopter retrofits FireStorm targeting systems KC-390 C-130 upgrades and various communication programs.
These long-term growth drivers coupled with our consistent track record of effectively managing through dynamic market cycles give me confidence there's a bright future ahead for Rockwell Collins.
So with that let me turn the call over to Patrick to walk through the financial details.
Pat? Thanks Clay.
Good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the first quarter of 2012.
I'll begin on Slides 3 and 4 where we highlight our total company first quarter sales EPS net income and operating cash flow.
Total company sales for the quarter decreased $10 million or 1% compared to last year's sales while income from continuing operations and earnings per share decreased by 13% and 10% respectively.
The decrease in earnings was primarily driven by a higher effective tax rate which went from 21.5% last year up to 33% in 2012.
First quarter 2011 results included a favorable adjustment related to the retroactive extension of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit.
In addition the prior year tax rate included a full year benefit from the R&amp;D tax credit while the current year tax rate has only 3 months’ benefit.
The accounting rules require us to average the benefit across the full fiscal year which adversely impacted our effective tax rate.
The combined impact of these 2 items was $21 million or $0.13 per share.
If you exclude the impact of these tax-related items first quarter 2012 earnings per share would have increased by $0.04 or 5% compared to last year.
Looking next to our operating cash flow results for the first quarter.
We used $64 million compared to our source of $57 million in last year's first quarter.
The increased usage of cash was primarily driven by $62 million of higher employee incentive compensation payments as we traditionally pay the prior year's incentive payments in the first quarter of the following year.
The increase in incentive payments reflects a fully reinstated payout after we had only partially reinstated it last year.
Additionally we made a $47 million payment to our qualified pension plan which we didn't have last year and there is $20 million of higher income tax payments related to the differences in the availability of the Federal R&amp;D Tax Credit.
Turning to Slides 5 and 6 we have the first quarter results of Commercial Systems which achieved revenue of $511 million in 2012 up 13% from $454 million in 2011.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $32 million or 14% to $265 million primarily resulting from increased deliveries for the Bombardier Global and Challenger platforms and increased sales to Boeing for the 777 and 747-8 platforms.
Aftermarket sales increased $27 million or 14% to $221 million.
Aftermarket revenue grew mostly from increased sales of spares related to new Boeing aircraft paramilitary programs and Chinese regional jets as well as higher service and support sales.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased 23% to $101 million in 2012 with operating margin expanding from 18.1% to 19.8%.
The increase in operating earnings and margin was primarily due to the incremental earnings flow on our sales growth offset somewhat by the absence of a $7 million favorable adjustment recorded last year.
Moving on to Slide 7.
Government Systems revenue decreased by 10% to $583 million in 2012.
Sales of Avionics increased $9 million or 3% as increased sales on the KC-46 KC-10 and KC-390 tankers as well as rotary wing programs more than offset the decline in simulation and training and the completion of a KC-135 GATM program last year.
Communication product sales declined $12 million or 8% primarily due to lower Joint Tactical Radio System revenue for the Ground Mobile Radio variant as well as fewer deliveries of satellite communications terminals.
Surface Solutions decreased $46 million or 43% as the impact of 2 program cancellations from last year worked through our results and we delivered fewer public safety vehicle systems.
Finally sales of navigation products declined by $18 million or 25% resulting from fewer deliveries of our hand-held GPS receivers.
On Slide 8 Government Systems' first quarter operating earnings decreased $14 million from last year while operating margins held flat at about 20%.
The decreased operating earnings resulted from the lower sales volume but operating performance remained consistent to last year primarily due to the benefits realized from restructuring actions taken in the fourth quarter of last year and additional cost reduction actions taken in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
Moving to Slide 9 we show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the first quarter compared to the end of last year.
In addition to $777 million of long-term debt we had $48 million of short-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.
We ended the quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 40% which is a bit higher than we have had in recent history.
Even with the higher debt-to-total-capital we continue to feel that our current debt leverage in combination with our investment-grade credit ratings provides us the ability to fund our growth needs cost effectively.
The updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of the first quarter is detailed on Slide 10.
During the first quarter we repurchased 7.1 million shares at an average cost of $54.6 per share.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 70 million shares or $3.4 billion return to shareowners through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was $318 million.
Now onto our final slide Slide 11 where we provided the details of our fiscal year 2012 financial guidance.
We have not changed any of the specific details of the guidance but I thought I should take a moment to remind you of a few key aspects of that guidance as well as provide a few additional details.
As Clay mentioned before we expect the second quarter to be the last of our difficult comparables for Government Systems followed by mid-single digit year-over-year growth in the second half of the year.
This tough comparable is expected to drive total company sales growth down about 3% to 5% for the second quarter.
In addition to the double-digit decline in Government Systems Commercial Systems growth is expected to be in the upper single digits as last year's second quarter was particularly strong with initial deliveries of Pro Line Fusion for the Bombardier Global aircraft and a favorable sales mix of selectable hardware within air transport.
In the second half of the year we expect total company sales to grow in the high-single digits to achieve our $4.9 billion to $5 billion guidance range.
Total segment operating margin should continue to expand across the remainder of the year and result in a range of 20.5% to 21.5%.
We also still expect the full year tax rate to be about 30% but anticipate the quarterly profile will be volatile.
We expect to close out certain tax examinations during our second quarter resulting in a favorable benefit to our effective rate which should be about 25% for the second quarter.
The rest of the year should then average 31% to bring us to a 30% rate for the full year.
Finally as we told you last quarter we did take action to get more aggressive on our share repurchases.
We expect to remain active for the remainder of the year albeit at a more normal rate when compared to the first quarter.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we are now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions here.
Clay could you delve into the aftermarket a little bit more the 14% and perhaps call out some of those items the paramilitary and others that you mentioned and how we should think about a normalized aftermarket growth for the rest of the year? I'll make an attempt here Rob.
As I said in my opening remarks -- well let me parse it out.
The largest part of the aftermarket is our MRO.
It was up about 5% this quarter and that's about a steady state.
That matches I think traffic growth in the typical out-of-warranty aircraft and all the things that we get benefit from that.
So I think that's going to be very stable and I think it's probably the most predictable thing we have.
The largest segment now and I think the newest thing is the sales of these initial spares for new aircraft and then just I would say the normal sparing for legacy aircraft through the year.
This will represent the biggest part certainly of our discretionary aftermarket growth and is probably the most significant and noteworthy I'll say new opportunity we're seeing this year.
It's going about as we predicted.
And so when we look at those customers for example that are taking full spares versus doing our power by the hour what we call dispatch 100 program it's breaking about like we thought it would.
And so that's been pretty much according to our plan which again gives us that confidence that our forecast for the year is in line.
And then I guess the third bucket in the aftermarket is everything else.
These are retrofits and upgrades of cockpits for business and air transport aircraft as we upgrade those.
That was a little light this quarter but we expect that to get better because as we all know very lumpy depending on what the customer expectations are taking the airplane down a lot of those variables.
The paramilitary is an extremely kind of hit-and-miss thing.
You all remember last year we had the Project Liberty project that did this.
This is a new project called Java Man which is a King Air platform where they were sparing for that so that's why we had that bump-up this quarter.
But again as we've always said when we get into that area it's particularly lumpy and that's going to kind of come and go through the rest of the year.
But I think the big source of confidence we have now and I would say the largest new growth area are these initial spares.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly for Patrick.
With regard to the cash flow and balance sheet you had talked about the inventory going up I think about $130 million this year.
It's done most of that here in the first quarter.
So how should we think about inventory playing out over the remainder of the year? And then just to clarify on the share repurchase are you essentially saying you will fulfill the rest of the authorization in this calendar year -- in this fiscal year and that's what we should assume? Let me take the inventory question first.
If you parse through the inventory increase in the first quarter about half of it relates to increase in our production inventory which is a what I'll describe as a normal seasonal build.
We tend to level load our factory and first quarter is generally the lightest quarter especially this year we have quite a good back-end loaded sales.
So we expect to burn that inventory off over the course of the balance of the year.
The remaining half of the inventory increase is comprised of 2 things.
One is an increase in the deferred engineering which is that $120 million or so you were referring to we’re expecting to increase over the course of the year.
The other half was a decline in progress payments from our customers.
We had talked about I'll say payments from customers coming down last year.
I think it's stabilized.
What we saw really was a swing between progress payments and advanced payments against receivables this quarter.
And so that was sort of cash neutral but it showed up as an increase in inventory because progress payments came down.
So all in all what I would say is we continue to expect about that increase in inventory.
It's going to be mostly related to deferred engineering and we expect the production piece of the inventory to burn off over the course of the balance of the year.
As it relates to share repurchases I wouldn't go so far as to say that we're going to burn through the remainder of the authorization.
But I will say we'll continue to be active in the share repurchase program over the course of the next 3 quarters and you'll continue to see our share count come down.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Clay on the business jet side how far are you through the Global Express ramp-up so far? Are you up to full rate? I'd say Dave this quarter marked the -- I'll call it peak where we have climbed up to what we believe to be a steady state.
So I would expect where you've seen very nice incremental causals for our growth in the global platform almost every quarter for the last year I doubt you will see that global growth rate going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the follow-up on that then.
If I take your guidance for business jet and regional jet OE growth it looks like you're calling for sequentially things to get better from here.
Is that just normal seasonality? Is there -- or is there something else contributing to that by the way of a new platform or you're expecting some sort of recovery that's baked into your guidance? I am absolutely expecting that the market will get better.
We have long said as you know that we thought 2012 would be a better year and a recovery year.
I am very confident now that that will be the case.
As we talked to all of our OEM customers as you imagine we have since they typically do calendar year to calendar year I look at calendar year as the first year of growth in business aviation in the last 3 years after 3 years of decline.
I think I can confidently say 2011 notwithstanding a world event is it will be the low watermark.
And I would say that that growth rate for the business jet market at large based on our conversations with customers could be in the low-double digits with various OEMs with every OEM growing year-over-year from as low as say mid-single digits to as high as high-double digits.
So I think what we have anticipated which is a long downturn pent-up demand generally improving economic conditions around the world especially in areas that have been impacted over the last 2 or 3 years is going to begin to reverse itself.
And we should see the beginnings of a recovery in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Switching gears 2 quick questions on the government side.
First of all how much did restructuring offset things or offset the decline in terms of volumes from a margin perspective? In other words what would your decremental margins been on just the volume side x restructuring? And then the second question in terms of the potential sequester how do you deal with that from a planning perspective? I'll take the question on the margins and I'll give Clay the sequester question.
As it relates to the impact of restructuring on the margins I would say that I don't want to quantify the impact because we've been taking restructuring actions not only in the fourth quarter but we've been doing a lot in the first quarter as well.
And I think what we've been striving for all along as we've talked about even though in the face of revenue volatility we want to have margin stability.
And I think the Government Systems management team has done an excellent job of managing in an uncertain environment and it's reflective not only of the restructuring that we took in the fourth quarter but all of the actions that have been taken over the course of the last 6 months.
David relative to the sequester I kind of plan for the sequester like you plan for the end of the world.
Yes I think about it.
I hope it doesn't happen.
I make sure I have my affairs in order but I'm going to live my life every day.
I think that the draconian nature of a sequester it would be so damaging that the best we can do is just be prepared to react quickly and that's kind of what we've had to do for the last 2 or 3 quarters.
Certainly that's something we think about.
It probably impacts where we invest and how carefully we review our business planning.
But at the end of the day if sequestering were to happen in all honesty no human being on the face of the earth knows how that's actually going to even be implemented even if it's sustained.
Will it be an across-the-board cut? Will they -- will the DoD give authority to be more selective in it? I mean all those things are so variable and so large that I just don't think it's reasonable.
If I gave you how I was doing it I'm not sure you ought to believe it because we just don't know what we're eventually going to have to do.
Your next question comes from the line of Troy Lahr with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about some of the discretionary spending trends that you're seeing from the airlines relative to kind of the break/fix works at work and is that even throughout all geographies or is U.S.
slow but Middle East Asia are still active? Can you talk about that a little bit? Well when you say break/fix I think MRO.
And I think the MRO is -- there's not much change in that.
If it breaks we fix it.
It depends on what kind of contract we have with the airlines as to how we fix it whether we give them an exchange whether we just take it and return it or whether we're on a flat-hour basis for it.
But my sense is the same thing that's driving that market is always driving that market.
If it's an efficiency initiative they're much more highly likely to do it.
They look at their fleets and the aging of the fleets and what they're going to do with the airplane.
And so I would say that there's nothing really new under the sun I hate to answer that.
It sounds very dull but there's nothing new under the sun of the causals and conditions that are driving that either break/fix aftermarket or the kind of retrofit aftermarket.
The only difference I see is what I highlighted in the earlier question and that is with these new entrants of aircraft we're getting a great benefit as we expected by the initial sparing and how that's done.
And that should sustain itself for quite some time because if I'm not mistaken there are however many 30-plus airlines going to be taking 787s over the next several years.
And every one of those airlines are going to have to make some kind of sparing decision.
So that should be very good for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But from a geography standpoint I mean you're really not seeing a difference either? Not really.
I mean obviously the Asian airlines are growing faster and have newer fleets than the European airlines do and certain extent the North American airlines.
And they react according to the age of their fleet and the health of their balance sheet.
And you can kind of make intuitive judgments that there's actually less retrofit activity less MRO activity in Asia because the fleets are newer.
So most of that activity is in Europe and America but they've got to keep the airplane flying so they're going to repair the system.
So again those factors that make that thing drive have not changed.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just so I’m clear on the business jet market when you're talking about kind of recovery are you seeing the same trends between small midsize and large jets? Or are you still seeing midsize recovering but smaller being kind of slower to recover? I think the important thing here is now we're beginning to see the OEMs that produce small aircraft increase their production rates.
Now remember all the OEMs have airplanes of various sizes.
So even the OEMs that are more focused in the lower end still have midsize airplanes as an example.
So I think when you look at the market at large what you're going to see is you'll see continued growth but not at the rate maybe at the high end but continued growth improving growth at the low end but it will probably look like a higher rate because they've been beaten down so much.
But the point is across the market and we play across the market so it's important to us we're generally seeing OEMs saying they're going to be increasing their production rate in 2012.
Now I would also say which I didn't say is I think this will probably be back-end loaded for the year.
Remember I said theirs is a calendar year planning phase; ours is a fiscal year so that's the guidance we give.
But I think you're going to see this build through the year as they load up the supply base and begin to ramp up their production lines.
So I would say that this growth would be sort of back-end oriented.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Clay I just wanted to follow up on that last question there on the biz jet market particularly at the light end.
There's been a lot of debate recently about whether or not it's realistic to think most of the light cabin OEs can have flat or higher production in '12 just given where their backlogs are relative to current production.
Are you actually seeing or hearing or aware that they are having order activity improvement in the past handful of months? Or are you still -- or is this still based on them expecting orders to improve later in '12 to give you that back-end loaded growth? I think the general activity has improved.
I obviously don't have the degree of insight that the OEMs themselves have.
But what I would say is my comments are based more on our conversations with OEM as they begin to align the supply chain for their production rates in 2012.
It is logical to assume they wouldn't be telling us what their expectations are if there was not some sort of supporting activity to go with that.
And anecdotally I could sit there and tell you yes there are pockets of that supporting activities.
But I think the thing that you have to really factor in here is the OEMs have worked very hard to manage that inventory they have so that there's not a lot of whitetails.
We've gone through that.
That they -- I think the used market has kind of gotten to where it's gotten.
It's not -- we don't see a lot of improvement but we see stability.
I think pricing has begun to stabilize.
We've seen that over the course of a long time.
It's not great but it's stable.
And now again there's this pent-up demand of customers seeing opportunities to get back into the market for new aircraft and incrementally they're doing that.
Now remember the basic production rates across business aviation is almost half what it was in 2007.
And so if there's any kind of demand out there there -- it is logical to assume that that sort of pent-up demand and market stabilization should be occurring and that's where we're seeing this relative growth.
And in some cases again I mentioned you're going to see single-digit growth rates.
In other cases where the aircraft are newer or they have more attractive selling features and points you're going to see higher production rates.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
A quick follow-up on the aftermarket comments made earlier.
When you said that retrofit activity was a little light is any of that due to market share loss? No.
No.
The retrofit activity is replacing a display or upgrading to a new information management system or things like that.
And no we haven't -- I don't think any of that that I can define as market share loss.
As I said those programs tend to be very very customer specific and timing specific.
And I'll probably say it until they throw me in the grave it's just lumpy.
You can't count on it quarter-to-quarter-to-quarter but over a year you can sort of begin to think where you're going to be and so we can forecast that generally over a year but even that's the toughest thing we do.
So I think that's what's at play here Noah.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last quick one for Patrick following up on the share repurchase question.
Are you specifically saying you will not burn the rest of the authorization in '12? Or are you just saying you don't want to put a number to it right now? I'm saying the latter.
I don't want to put a number to it right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it is possible that you do that? Anything’s possible.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clay if we could follow up on your comments on initial spares.
Could you give us color with the first quarter abnormally high and you said that it was kind of in line with your expectations on the 787 and yet All Nippon the largest fleet operator basically has chosen to go power by the hour? That's correct and we expected them to Cai.
As I said we're not going to get every one of them right but I would say over the decisions made so far and remember some of the decisions have been made for future deliveries not just for those that affected the first quarter are generally in line with the splits that we expect of those that go power by the hour versus the initial sparing.
And so what are the vagaries? Maybe not every airline is going as we've had this discussion with but most have.
We try to estimate what the amount of spares they'll need some order slightly less some order slightly more.
But in general I think it is in line with the decision points that they need to make at the time they need to make them and who's making what kind of decision.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a question for Patrick.
The R&amp;D in absolute terms was essentially flat.
What do you expect company-funded R&amp;D to do this year both in terms of absolute change and in terms of percent of sales? I think we expect it to continue to be between 7% and 8% of sales.
So I would say relatively flat as a percentage of sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 7% and 8% that's like basically 100 miles wide.
I mean can you narrow that a little bit? I would say relatively consistent with last year as a percentage of sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on your comments Clay regarding the backlog in defense getting better.
And I know you only reported annually but obviously the annual reports for fiscal '11 showed a mid-single digit decline in the funded backlog and kind of a double-digit decline in the total backlog for defense.
As you look forward through this year do you see that backlog in defense actually expanding and putting you in a position to grow into 2013? I would -- here's what -- let me give my -- I probably -- maybe I confused you a little bit there Myles by my terminology.
When you -- I think when you follow most defense companies they actually report their backlog and they speak to the order fulfillment rate relative to that.
And we as you know rarely do with specific numbers and the reason is backlog as we report it to us is relatively unimportant because we'll win a $500 million program and the initial order we get is for $50 million but we know that that revenue is going to flow.
What we use especially when we're trying to project year-to-year is what our firm versus anticipated sales are for the year.
But typically we'll go into any year at somewhere between I'll say 60% to 65% of our orders firm and then we have to get the anticipated orders to close through the year.
If you recall third quarter of last fiscal year one of the reasons that continuing resolution affected us so dramatically is that we could not get the DoD to move on those anticipated orders and we were caught short in the second half of the year.
That's also why having the continuing resolution threat behind us is important to us so now we can work on those anticipated orders.
My comment was specifically relative to the progress we’re making on filling anticipated orders for the balance of this year.
That typically is done by new program pursuits that have sales related to them or existing programs that have follow-on activity that we know we get the contract order for and we convert that order to a firm order.
And so my characterization is that flow is working pretty good so far and certainly much better than what we would have seen last year while we were under the specter of a CR.
Now still a long way to go and although we're waiting on the '13 budget and the implications there we think that the '12 budget is pretty firm and now all we need to do is go about doing our business with our customers firming up those orders that we're anticipating.
So that was the nature of my comment.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
And then I guess since the last call a few program decisions have been formally or informally made C-130 AMP JTRS GMR a little bit of rhetoric on BSI on the [indiscernible] to display for the JSF.
Any of those things we should be thinking about in terms of impacting growth in '12 and '13? Obviously JTRS you had de-risked originally but maybe even the offset to that is the program office looks at other commercial opportunities or RSIs RPs for the JTRS solution both the positive and the negative? Well the 3 programs you just mentioned there Myles I mean I'll address those specifically.
The JTRS GMR has been decided and you're exactly right we excluded that from our guidance and from our forecast for the year and in fact we even mentioned that as a causal so that's a done deal.
In terms of the helmet on the F-35 we're continuing to do work on that.
We're under contract to do that and good progress is being made.
And so we expect no impact to that regardless of a F-35 rate decision that I know is hanging in the wind.
Relative to the C-130 AMP now that is in the rumor stage.
We've heard those rumors as well.
Nothing formally has been said by that.
However we're very well aware of a potential risk of that program either being reduced or eliminated.
And I can tell you that the impact is relatively immaterial for the year.
Certainly well within the guidance we've given and is accommodatable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last clarification was how large was job demand in the quarter? A few million less than 5 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clay just a follow-up on the government side.
I was wondering if you could comment on whether you've seen any of your contractual terms of the customer getting a little bit tighter over the last 3 months or whether there's anything else in the works to that effect.
Not really Rob I think certainly if you're considering the last 3 months.
I think over the last year I think it's become much more difficult to contract.
I think that's a function of the lack of staffing in some cases the lack of expertise in that staffing.
I think the general budget environment has made everyone sort of pause as to what's going to happen next.
So I think those general atmospherics have sort of been affecting us for now about a year and not just the last 3 months.
I know that there -- we all know that there is a move in certain instances to be more preferential towards fixed price contracts.
That really hasn't affected us because most of our contracts are fixed price already so we've not seen that relative impact that I think the industry is seeing more of.
And recently there was this controversy on things like concurrency.
But I think that was specific to some negotiations on the F-35.
We certainly have not seen that trickle down to any of our contracts.
So I would say generally the answer to your question is no.
We've not seen any major shifts in defense contracting over the last 3 months.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just to follow up on Myles's question really.
It's sort of interesting that we've seen a number of programs perhaps being questioned more of their life expectancy and yet it appears your confidence in the second half with regard to the defense revenues has gone up.
What would you say has been the major thing that has increased your confidence in the last 3 months? Well I think it's several things.
One is the fact that we're not operating under the continuing resolution as we did last year.
That as you know was the source of probably half of our defense miss relative to guidance last year for reasons I've talked about at length.
And so not having to deal with that uncertain condition is a big confidence booster.
I think having now a budget in place and most of the negative impact already defined and behind us just the relative order of uncertainty I think is less in 2012.
Now in '13 it's a different matter because we haven't seen that budget and we haven't seen the manifestation of the Secretary's and the President's statement of a few weeks ago.
And so we're still watchful of that.
But I'll just call it a relative amount of uncertainty and our basic visibility into that.
Now it doesn't mean something couldn't change.
It's still a very dynamic environment but all things in life are relative.
And compared to the dynamics of the 6 months of last calendar year compared to where we are today I feel relatively better.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Access 3:42.
LLC</strong> Clay in -- or maybe it's Patrick in Surface Solutions the revenues were down like 43% in the quarter.
And if I remember right in September your guidance was for that to be down low-double digit.
So is it really possible to recover that much even though the comps do start to get easier when we get out in the third quarter? We're certainly anticipating recovery in Surface Solutions.
I think probably the biggest single thing is we're anticipating some fairly significant orders for our FireStorm product internationally and that goes into Surface Solutions.
That should provide some back-half growth to offset the first half weakness in that portfolio.
LLC</strong> And then the commercial incremental margin as you mentioned Patrick is over 40%.
I mean that's kind of what you've been guiding to.
Does that change? Should we look for that to change any as we go through the year? No.
We've been saying 40% to 50%.
I think you can continue to anticipate that.
There will always be kind of onetime items that are going to impact it.
But I think in general 40% to 50% is a good baseline.
LLC</strong> And then just one detailed one.
The shares outstanding at the end of the quarter so I can properly model what I would expect for the second quarter.
If you hold on just a moment I'll get that number for you.
It's 146.7 million.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then actually maybe one for Clay.
Clay with the introduction of your new Avionics product can you discuss any changes in terms of the competition with Garmin which certainly looked like they were certainly gaining share with the Cessna product line? I think it's about the same as I talked about last quarter George.
We're very confident the introduction of this new product is now going to get us into the game for that low-cost integrated product that Garmin has been very successful at moving into the market.
And so now that we have a product that we can talk about and a time line when that's available I think we're in much better shape than we were during this interim period where we were entirely focused on the big fully integrated fusion program that we've also been successful on.
So I would say that there are no significant change in dynamics either way since last we talked.
But we feel really good about the discussions we've had about this product with our customers and we'll see how that goes over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
One is Clay R&amp;D spend as you pointed out relatively stable.
Where are you putting your emphasis in terms of new product and other items? Well I think it's generally where you've seen us talk about in the past Howard.
Obviously a lot of the commercial R&amp;D is going into these new platforms that we are winning and the new products that go on those platforms.
So heavy emphasis on Pro Line Fusion and then the Pro Line Fusion EDS that we just talked about at George's question the investments that we're making on specific platforms that are coming out in the future CSeries A350 some of the regional other regional -- international regional jets we've talked about they're consuming a great deal of this R&amp;D.
I think on the commercial side there since beyond the A350 what we're talking about is a lot of our information management products.
The Ascend product line that we're building out is a source of a lot of that research and development.
And we are spending some R&amp;D in the defense side on those areas that we know are going to be important.
For example it was mentioned earlier the -- whether the C-130 AMP goes or not we have a very attractive product that's very low cost to upgrade C-130s around the world.
Those C-130s are going to be here forever.
And we think there's a very big market for that so we've invested in a product improvement and especially a cost improvement area in C-130s which I think is going to help us a lot.
We're investing in UAV products which we think are going to be good.
We're investing in networking products because I think that's going to remain a priority.
So that gives you a sense.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
And then Patrick more on a financial question.
I just wanted to make sure I heard what you talked about in terms of the second quarter appropriately.
You talked about revenues being down 3% to 5% and a 25% tax rate.
Is that correct? You got both of those right Howard.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Actually it's Seth on for Joe this morning.
Just had a quick question about the biz jet aftermarket.
We've seen fairly weak flight ops data lately not really much growth kind of flat to maybe slightly down.
And just wonder to what extent if at all that is a concern for you.
It's not an overriding concern.
Our biz jet aftermarket is much smaller than our air transport aftermarket.
And in fact it was relatively slower of the aftermarkets this quarter I think maybe reflective of that.
But I think as long as they're flying the airplanes we're going to get some of that business.
The other thing that we look at that probably is below the floorboards of what you see in terms of fly activity is warranty roll-off.
Remember we go back about 5 years and we know that the production rates are ramping up about 5 years ago as those aircraft are rolling off warranty and that gives us a little bit of upper as we look at this year and the next couple of years until we get to that sort of magic 2008 peak.
But no I feel okay about the relative sustainability of that aftermarket.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just as a quick follow-up and sorry to beat a dead horse but just to follow up on Rob's question.
I know you get this a lot.
Specifically with regard to the government's attitude toward fixed-price commercial-type contracts what kind of data they want to compel you to turn over.
Has there been any change there over the past few months? Again I think not.
Now there's always somebody in the DoD that wants to maybe push the rules and suggest that we ought to get them cost and pricing data.
We saw that play out a little bit on the KC-46 contract a little bit.
But we pushed back.
That's not in accordance with the rules.
And usually after we have a good conversation of what's appropriate we get to a good place.
But that's not really new.
I think that pressure’s always been there because sometimes for people commercial-type contracting is a novelty.
And the idea of being able to have the marketplace and competition set the price rather than have everybody prove that their prices are what they are is a bit of a culture change for some people.
But we see no move at the senior levels of the Department of Defense and that's what's the important one here that would move away from the current federal acquisition regulations that allow for commercial-type contracting appropriately and their benefit.
In fact I would make the strong statement and I think they understand this is as we're going into the environment we know we'll face the next 2 or 3 years it is more imperative that you bring commercial companies in and use commercial-type contracting because you do not hear a lot of horror stories about commercial fixed price contracts because the risk is hedged it controls behavior and I think more importantly it is the most efficient cost-effective way to contract in the Department of Defense.
And I think they understand that.
And I don't see any major policy changes that would erode those significant benefits.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Clay just a quick question on the biz jet OEM side and just trying to get a flavor for the nuance of these inquiries that you've been getting from the OEMs.
Is this a case where they are just kind of pulsing the supply chain to make sure that if they needed to go up in rate that the supply chain would be ready? Or are they actually saying hey we're getting ready to do this we're getting all the ducks lined up here and we're going to get ready to go here because it's an important subtlety and it'd be helpful for all of us to get a sense of what those conversations actually look like.
I don't think it's subtle at all Jason.
It's the latter not the former.
Typically our biz jet customers set their rates about twice a year one going into the calendar year so that's the conversations and the data from which I'm making these statements.
And then typically in the summer before they go into their typically August shutdown slowdown which is traditional for most biz jet manufacturers they'll relook at the year and reset the rates.
And so these are very important points because they have a lot of people in the supply chain and a lot of long lead items and therefore these are 2 big important checkpoints along the year.
And so as they go into the year they want to make sure the supply base is ready to support them in the manner they want to.
Now is that adjustable? I just suggested it was.
So if they get into the year it's not progressing as much we know that they in fact do lower their rates.
And what I would say is actually some of the OEMs we've talked to have lowered the rates slightly maybe 2 3 4 here and there from what we would have expected 6 months ago.
So in this readjustment it can go both ways.
But the information I gave you just a few minutes ago is aggregated across all of our customers in general what we see when we add it all up.
We see a positive direction for the first time in 3 years of business jet production assuming it doesn't change mid-year and would certainly subject to some adjustment but generally positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just a follow-up to that last statement you made and just kind of assuming it doesn't change.
From your perspective and your history in the industry what are the key risks at this point that that would change? I think a significant downturn in the economy.
Obviously we're all watching Europe.
If Europe implodes and that they move into a deep recession and that brings the world down with them that will change all of our lives over the next 6 months.
I think it would be something like that.
But other than that I think all the other economic contingencies out there are fairly well known.
I think the thing you have to look at the thing that drives business aviation as a leading indicator more than anything else is corporate profitability.
And in general I would say over the last year corporate profitability has been very good high and growing and we anticipate that into this year as well.
And so that's the most positive indicator.
The second one we look at are more small business activity general I would say capital expenditures that we see across a lot of industry because that's what this fits into.
And again cautiously we're seeing the trend be better there.
So it is not unexpected historically to suggest at some point it's going to recover and we believe that's going to be 2011.
We've believed that for a long time and now I can say it more confidently.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a first question on -- within the commercial transport side within original equipment just about 8% growth in the quarter how do you see that progressing through the rest of the fiscal year considering what you're hearing from your large customers there on the transport side in terms of their rate increases and expectations? Yes as we think about it year-over-year Q1 was impacted by that $7 million incentive release.
So actually if you adjust Q1 for that the OEM growth in the air transport side was about 15%.
Second quarter we're expecting it to slow down a little bit.
Not so much because of any weakness in the quarter but the comparable from last year was a lot tougher because we had some very favorable what we call BFE or selectable equipment mix on the air transport side.
So think of that going down to probably high-single digits on the air transport side and then returning to double digits in the back half of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And if I think about this segment longer term can you comment at all Clay in particular on the conversations you're having specifically with Boeing about any incremental opportunities on the 737 MAX or a subsequent or follow-on to the 777 aircraft? Well we always have conversations with our customers relative to technology product that we offer and what their plans are in terms of configuration of any new airplanes.
We all know that there are 2 new -- 2 relatively variant narrowbodies coming in from both OEMs and then some potential for some widebody upgrades which has gone -- has not been announced yet.
I would hope that there could be the opportunity for incremental content depending on what those OEMs decide.
And the only caution I would say right now especially on the Neo and the MAX is those are predominantly engine-upgrade programs.
And I think those OEMs want to maintain a very low risk and focus on that which is going to sell that new airplane.
So it is unclear at this point what systems will be modified or improved to go along with that engine upgrade.
And so I expect that decision to be made sometime before the end of calendar year 2012.
We'll continue those discussions hope that we can suggest a value proposition for that.
But I really can't say any more than that because no decisions are I think imminent.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can I just ask you about the cost reductions you talked about on the government side? Were those costs or period costs that you would have absorbed outside of the $0.11 that we saw on the December quarter? And would there -- would that have been material? You mentioned some cost reductions I guess in there and some of it was in the prior quarter in the charge and then perhaps going forward.
We've taken several actions.
The largest one of course is the fourth quarter where we took the restructuring charge.
But we've also continued to rightsize our workforce and what I would say is the Government Systems management team has been very aggressive to try to manage to the lower volumes in the first half of the year.
And they've managed really across the board including discretionary spending.
So they've been cutting.
And I would say there are some costs associated with that but they're buried in the results of the Government Systems business and they're not significant.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Clay last quarter you had talked about a disconnect on the 787 production rates versus where Boeing was.
Can you just give us an update on how close you are to perhaps getting in line? And then are there any other programs where there's a mismatch between where the OEM might be and where you're running right now? Well actually thanks for the question Sam because there is new news there.
If you recall we exited the last fiscal year at a 2-per-month rate of production that we had been slowed down to by Boeing as we began to synchronize the very large inventories they had because we were shipping ahead of them and their production rates.
I can tell you now that as a result of discussions we had with Boeing that production rate is increasing as we speak and we should by the mid to the end of this current quarter be accelerating to about a 4-per-month rate.
And our anticipation and the way we're discussing this is to hold this 4-per-month rate into our FY '13 until we get to that future point where that synchronization occurs.
So we will not -- we will still not be in line exactly with where Boeing is but we're sort of lead turning -- to use an old fighter pilot term -- lead turning a production rate that will get us to where we need to be.
Now the reason we're doing this is we want to exercise our production rate to show that we can increase it so that makes sense and we want to add stability to our production plan so we can make them efficient.
And in the discussions we've had with Boeing they understand that and therefore you can expect us to be at a 4-per-month rate for the back half of this fiscal year.
Now let me tell you the effect of that relative to revenues.
It will basically have no material change in 787 revenues in the first half and the reason for that is we started last year at a higher rate and it sort of wickered its way down through the middle of the year.
So we're sort of passing in the night if you will by the end of the second quarter.
By the third and fourth quarter we should see improving 787 revenues for those last 2 quarters compared to the last 2 quarters of '11 when we were slower if that gives you sort of a trend there.
LLC Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just one last question is on the Government Systems and this question about the outlook improving.
I guess it sounds to me and maybe you can correct me if I'm wrong is that you probably put some contingency into the remainder of the year for continuing resolution coming and lasting somewhat like last year and perhaps that's gone because outside of that and the F-15 finally getting booked I'm trying to think about what else might have changed on the positive side.
Well no.
We actually didn't do that.
If you recall when we gave our guidance we told you that the guidance did not include an extended continuing resolution.
We thought we could manage through the first quarter.
But beyond the first quarter if there was another continuing resolution effect that that would be a negative impact potentially.
It actually turned out like we planned it to which was the end of the first quarter.
What I would say relative to that Sam is we did enter the year because of the uncertainty with a range of results.
In a risk register we assumed a lot of risks and we were looking as much as we could for what some opportunities were and we've managed that risk and opportunity set to a point and the closer we get to the finish line obviously the more confidence we're going to have that it will meet to where our guidance is.
And I would say that my confidence is more our knowledge around those risks and opportunities which I'm not going to go through every one of them with you but we know what they are as we march our way through the year and ultimately close those orders anticipated that I mentioned earlier.
That's the basis of my confidence.
And let me be quick to say so that I don't sound overly confident is in this environment we really don't know when the next program impact or cancellation is going to be.
So we fully understand that bad things can happen to good people.
And so we've tried to include as much of that in this risk and opportunity profiling that we're watching but that will continue to be the source of our confidence or a change in that confidence as we go forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Leake with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clean-up items.
The C-130 AMP and the F-35 helmet do they both reside in Avionics all of it? Yes.
Research Division</strong> They do.
So they're purely in Avionics? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Government Systems.
On previously canceled Government Systems programs that were canceled for convenience we had some COG.
We were able to recoup some costs.
Can you give us some progress on that? Was there a large amount in this quarter or at least where we sit on the recoupment of those costs in your assumptions for '12? Yes.
What I would say is that the P&amp;L impact of any cost recovery is going to be fairly small.
We did record I think a small contract adjustment this quarter.
By small less than $2 million associated with one of those programs.
And there will be some cash collections hopefully over the course of the year.
However the timing of those negotiations is difficult to predict.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
iForce we haven't spoken about that in a while.
Maybe some opportunities or what you're thinking on iForce? Well we're still looking for those opportunities.
As you all know we had 2 very large customers which we're still delivering some product to although at a much lower rate.
This is the California Highway Patrol and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
We're now looking at some of the smaller municipalities and looking for opportunities there.
I would say it's slow going although we do have some very modest sales planned in for again the back half of the year where we are going to see some of that improved revenue that I talked about.
But I'd say it's a very small contributor at this point.
Research Division</strong> And last one.
On the 787 rates that you talked about the 4-per-month rate and I'm not real clear on the disconnect that you're saying that I guess Boeing makes its 10 per month by year-end 2013.
Can you reconcile sort of the 2 numbers? I mean could you -- it doesn't mean that you couldn't quickly get to that number but help me out understanding the 4 versus Boeing's 10-per-month rate at year-end 2013 for the 78? Well we’re fully aligned and know where Boeing is trying to get and how they're trying to get there at least currently.
As many of you know that track that program they have the schedules they call them and they constantly modify those schedules based on a lot of things that go on that we have no visibility into.
And so every time they modify those schedules it still gives them a track to get to what their stated output rate is but maybe in a slightly different form.
We fall in line with that.
So I guess the 2 things I would say is we have visibility where they're going.
They have I think a high degree of confidence we as a supplier can get there with them but we need to do it in a way that accomplishes 2 goals: Make sure that they have enough inventory but not excessive inventory and where we have stability in our production rates.
And so we're solving to that equation.
And let me say this again so don't look to our production rate as a surrogate for Boeing's production rate.
If you're looking at that you're going to -- you stay somewhere between confused or misinformed.
But what I am trying to do is give you a sense of continuity from our perspective so you know what we're doing and the fact that now progress is being made.
So to go from 2 to 4 is good and so we're moving in that direction.
Now where it synchronizes out in the future we hope that will happen into our early '13 and then we can accelerate from there.
The other thing I'd say is our ability to accelerate is I think far in excess of a lot of suppliers because of the nature of our product.
So we know we can get there from here but there's a lot of inventory on hand that we're managing to as well.
That probably didn't help you a lot but...
Research Division</strong> No it helps.
That's great.
No I appreciate the color.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask about the Panorama Glass Front Projection.
You made an announcement about it last night around Thanksgiving and about sim and training in general which I don't think you've talked about a lot.
I'm getting some sense that in the current budget environment Pentagon has a bit more interest in sim and training as a means to save on cost.
It could be a bit of a bright spot in an otherwise dismal defense budget.
I wanted to get your sense of that if you could comment a bit on your outlook for the sim and training and your outlook for the Panorama GFP product.
Do you think this could be for example a growth driver for Avionics sometime in the near future? Well we think it is a growth driver.
We're still forecasting simulation and training to grow for the year.
So anything in defense that's growing is a growth driver by definition.
And so I think simulation will do that this year.
I think we're -- certainly with that new product that you cited we're trying to position ourselves to be more competitive to offer more capability to customers so that we can continue to grow that product and I have confidence that we can.
Now that's based on a macro view that I think is logical that as the budgets get more dear as the OPTEMPO in Iraq and Afghanistan draws down the ability to train pilots efficiently certainly lend themselves to doing very high fidelity simulation which is much cheaper than training in an airplane especially as you have fewer airplanes.
We've seen that since time immemorial especially with large really expensive airplanes like bombers as well as now these new fifth generation fighters.
So I think the conditions are lending themselves that simulation training is going to be good and now the issue becomes can we offer the product and be competitive with the other offers to get hopefully more than our fair share.
So I think that's our story.
Your final question comes from the line of Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just quick question Clay.
I guess it's probably appropriate with a big picture question given all the details.
Just regarding Government Systems on the international market from a net perspective what are you seeing there? Are you seeing lots of opportunities or I mean I think we have a good idea where the domestic budgets are going over the next 2 to 3 years as you mentioned but how are you kind of positioning the company to take advantage of some of the growth you're seeing internationally? Well it's kind of playing out like we said it would and like we hoped it would in that we have identified what we believe are higher-growth countries relative to defense spending.
And we're seeing some of the growth that I talked about in my opening remarks happening in those countries Saudi Arabia the one I mentioned and the F-15 sale plus we're having some helicopter and other products going in under that same -- that's going to be very important to us.
The Emirates and they use the FireStorm the latest customer of a number of international customers using this for their controlling targeting system that is I think an industry-leading system right now.
In Brazil they're building up their defense infrastructure.
Our win on the KC-390 and there are a number of communication and commanding control programs that Brazil is looking at that we've targeted in that area.
India.
We've been very active in India sorting through what the opportunities are there in communication and also Avionics upgrades and we see opportunities there as well.
So in those countries which we know have growing defense budgets and defense needs because they live in bad neighborhoods and frankly they are concerned now about the ability and willingness of the United States to come to their aid we think that's going to continue to drive opportunities in our defense business for the last several years and we have been positioning ourselves over the last 3 or 4 years to be a more forceful presence and a more value-creating supplier in all of those regions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Are you seeing -- are you targeting like a specific sales percentage mix? We've seen some of the others whether it's some of the prime contractors kind of identify where they want to see their international sales mix.
Are you approaching it that way? Is it more on a country-by-country basis? Well it's both.
Obviously we have country plans and specific opportunities that we track.
The only thing we've disclosed publicly is that roughly 1/3 of our sales right now for the whole corporation are outside the United States and we would like that to be 40% by the year 2020.
So that gives you a double-digit growth rate.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thank you Darla.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please review that document for additional disclosures.
I'd like to thank everybody for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
This concludes Rockwell Collins First Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins' Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Darla and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note that today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
With the first and I'd say the most difficult half of our fiscal year complete I'm pleased that the second quarter results came in just as we had expected.
Even though second quarter revenue declined 5% from last year as headwinds faced in Government Systems were only partially offset by growth in Commercial Systems net income rose 7% resulting from a 90-basis-point increase in operating margins and a lower tax rate.
The increased net income when combined with the share repurchases year-to-date that reduced our outstanding shares by 5% resulted in earnings per share of $1.09 which is a 14% increase from last year.
Now looking a little deeper into the results of our 2 businesses we saw performance continue to improve in Commercial Systems with revenue growth across both market segments.
In the air transport market the robust backlog at Boeing and Airbus is enabling both OEMs to increase production rates.
In addition Boeing continues to ramp up production for the 787 according to their latest schedule and we've increased our 787 rates to 4 ship sets per month.
In the air transport aftermarket revenue growth is predominantly being driven by spares provisioning as the airlines that take initial deliveries of 787 and 747-8.
So far the 7 airlines -- sorry so far 7 airlines have made their 787 sparing decisions regarding their products with 3 choosing to purchase spares directly and the other 4 choosing a power-by-the-hour alternative for spares asset management.
We expected a relatively even split between the 2 option and that seems to be exactly how it's playing out.
In the business jet market increased deliveries of Pro Line Fusion to Bombardier continue to drive our OEM revenue growth.
I'm also pleased to report that we hit a significant entry-into-service milestone this quarter when Bombardier delivered their first Global 5000 and Global 6000 aircraft featuring our Avionics.
Beyond the first 2 Globals we are working development programs to put Pro Line Fusion on 9 announced aircraft platforms which enter into service over the next 5 years.
Regarding the Embedded Display System variant of Pro Line Fusion development is progressing according to our schedule and we have successfully secured our first OEM position at the light end of the market.
So for the first half of the year we've seen about a 10% revenue growth in Commercial Systems and that business has generated 230 basis points of margin expansion.
Our Government Systems results came in as expected with a 12% decline in revenue and operating margins holding steady at around 20%.
Despite the adverse market conditions we've experienced consistent growth in Avionics as the Saudi F-15 and the 3 tanker programs the KC-46 KC-10 and KC-390 are ramping up.
These programs are all progressing on plan and I expect them to be long-term revenue drivers for this business.
Just this quarter we were awarded additional content on the KC-390 further demonstrating our strengthening relationship with Embraer and the Brazilian Ministry of Defense.
Meanwhile our other 3 product categories in Government Systems saw headwinds from previously canceled programs and reduced DAGR deliveries which pulled down sales this quarter as expected.
Most of these revenue headwinds are behind us for the year and we continue to expect revenue growth in the second half of the year albeit at a slightly lower rate.
Our focus this year in Government Systems has been to sustain margin performance and generate strong cash flows.
And so far that's exactly what that team has done in the face of some pretty big challenges.
However just as things appear to be getting a little more predictable a series of events has caused us to reduce our revenue guidance for the year.
One was a strategic decision we made and spoke about earlier this quarter while the other 2 were market-driven events.
First we've decided to discontinue any further investment in our public safety vehicle systems.
We became convinced that the lack of an effective national distribution system combined with supply chain reliability issues would marginalize our ability to grow this business profitably.
Although we've curtailed any further investment we do plan to support our current customers.
This decision took approximately $20 million of expected revenue out of the second half of the year.
The second impact relates to our FireStorm targeting systems we had planned to sell into the Middle East.
This is actually a "good news bad news" story.
The bad news is that we now expect those deliveries to move out of the year.
The good news is that the customer delayed the execution of the contract because they now intend to combine it with another purchase of additional targeting systems increasing the total content of the program.
The delay associated with the execution of this contract however will slide approximately $40 million of revenue out of the back half of fiscal year 2012 and into next year.
Both the public safety and FireStorm adjustments are within the Surface Solutions portfolio of Government Systems.
Based on these changes we're now expecting Surface Solutions to be down about 30% when compared to last year.
The third change is in Commercial Systems and resulted from a recent development at the light end of the business jet market.
Last quarter I told you that I was expecting a double-digit increase in business jet production across all sectors and growth at all of the OEMs.
After discussions this quarter with one of the OEMs I still expect production to increase but now in high single digits reflecting a year-over-year reduction at that OEM where we had discussions.
This change reduced our revenue forecast by about $30 million in the second half of the year compared to our original plans.
So what does the impact of these adjustments to our plan mean for the remainder of the fiscal year? We still expect growth in the second half of 2012 across both business segments.
And we're taking appropriate actions to control costs and hold to our previous EPS commitments.
Government Systems' growth is now expected to be in the low single digits for the remainder of the year driven by the tanker programs sales of R210 radios JTRS HMS initial deliveries and increased revenue from the Saudi F-15 program.
In Commercial Systems we expect about a 10% growth for the balance of the year driven by higher air transport OEM production rates including the 787 increased sales of new business jets and continued aftermarket growth.
Increased revenues should generate continued margin expansion across the next 2 quarters in both businesses and enable the double-digit earnings per share growth we guided to at the beginning of the year.
With that now I'd like to turn the balance of the call over to Patrick.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
Let's get started by first reviewing our results for the total company that are shown on Slides 3 and 4.
Total company sales for the quarter came in at $1.16 billion a decrease of 5% from last year.
Net income and earnings per share increased 7% and 14% respectively.
The greater increase in earnings per share when compared with net income was due to share repurchases.
The increase in net income was primarily driven by our lower effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2012 of 24.4% which is about 700 basis points lower than the rate for the second quarter of 2011.
This lower rate was primarily due to a favorable adjustment resulting from the settlement of 2 tax years with the IRS partially offset by differences in the availability of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit.
The net favorable impact of those 2 tax items was $15 million or $0.10 per share.
Turning to Slides 5 and 6 we have the second quarter results of our Commercial Systems business which reported revenues of $533 million up 7% from $500 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $19 million or 7% to $289 million driven by higher product deliveries for the Bombardier Global platform and increased sales to Boeing and Airbus resulting from higher production rates across their product lines.
Last year we had a favorable mix of airline selectable equipment for Boeing 737 aircraft which made it a different -- difficult comparable.
This year was a more traditional customer mix and the higher production rates on 737 aircraft mostly offset the difficult comp.
Aftermarket sales increased $19 million or 9% to $220 million driven by increased spare sales related to 787 and 747-8 aircraft as well as increased air transport retrofit sales.
Commercial Systems' operating earnings increased 23% to $112 million or 21% of sales compared to operating earnings of $91 million or 18.2% of sales in the second quarter last year.
The increase in earnings and operating margin was primarily due to the earnings flow on the higher sales volume.
On Slide 7 we see Government Systems' revenue came in as expected with a decline of 12% to $628 million.
Avionic sales grew 4% to $365 million as increased sales from the Saudi F-15 fighter and the KC-46 and KC-10 tanker programs more than offset lower sales resulting from the completion of deliveries on the KC-135 GATM program.
Sales of communication products declined 19% to $154 million due to the completion of a contract to provide transportable cellular capabilities in Afghanistan and fewer deliveries of satellite communication terminals.
Surface Solutions' sales decreased 37% to $58 million principally due to 2 programs which were terminated for convenience in the third quarter of last year.
Finally Navigation Products' sales were down 38% to $51 million driven by fewer deliveries of our hand-held GPS receivers.
Slide 8 shows Government Systems' second quarter operating earnings which were $128 million.
Operating margins came in at 20.4% relatively flat to the 20.9% margins reported last year.
The impact of lower sales volume to current year operating earnings and margins was partially offset by a $6-million reduction in company-funded research and development spending and $5 million of favorable warranty adjustments.
On Slide 9 we have our 6-month year-to-date total company financial results for sales EPS net income and operating cash flow.
Through the first half of the year our sales have decreased by 3% as the headwinds in our Government Systems have been mostly offset with growth in Commercial Systems.
Our year-to-date operating cash flow has decreased $82 million to $45 million in 2012.
The primary drivers of the decrease in cash flow include $62 million in increased payments for employee incentive compensation and $50 million of higher income tax payments due to the expiration of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit which were partially offset by increased customer receipts.
Moving to Slide 10 we show the status of our capital structure.
As of the end of the second quarter we had $774 million in long-term debt outstanding as compared to $528 million at the end of fiscal 2011.
We believe our debt-to-total-capital ratio of 40% at the end of the second quarter in combination with our investment-grade credit ratings provides us the ability to fund our growth needs cost effectively.
If you turn to Slide 11 we provide details related to the updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of the second quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.9 million shares of stock at an average cost of $58.26 per share.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 72 million shares or $3.5 billion returned to shareowners through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
In addition to returning capital to the shareowners through share repurchases we also just yesterday announced that the Board of Directors has increased our quarterly dividend by 25% to $0.30 per share.
This increase which is consistent with our capital deployment philosophy will take effect with our third quarter dividend payment.
Now onto our final slide Slide 12 where we provide the details of our updated fiscal year 2012 financial guidance.
As Clay mentioned in his opening remarks we've made a few updates to our revenue guidance and now expect it to be about $4.85 billion for the year.
Government Systems' revenue is expected to be down mid-single digits for the year with low-single-digit growth in the back half of the year.
Within Government Systems we now expect Surface Solutions to be down over 30% for the full year with the sales guidance related to the other 3 product portfolios remaining unchanged.
In Commercial Systems sales growth for the year should be in around 10% with OEM revenue growth now expected to be in the low double digits.
However even though we've lowered revenue guidance our focus of controlling costs is expected to enable us to still achieve earnings per share in the range of $4.40 to $4.60.
All of the other components of our guidance remain unchanged.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Clay you mentioned one change on the business jet side with one customer.
Is that one customer Hawker? And also could you just talk about your exposure at Hawker relative to what's going on there and the potential downside? It is Hawker.
And as everyone knows we've been watching carefully the evolution of events there for over a year as rumors have gone back and forth.
I think they have been relatively public in some of the things that they're doing to try to rationalize their debt situation and we're continuing to keep a close eye on that.
Dave it's really hard to say what the impact is going to be because first we don't know what they're going to do; and second we don't know when they're going to do it.
And this is sort of a fluctuating circumstance as we continue to ship them product because they're still building airplanes.
I would -- the only I guess color we could give you is if you had to saw it off today we have an outstanding receivables balance of about $30 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay follow-up question.
On the guidance the $4.60 the top end of the range you obviously brought down your sales guidance.
Everything else remained the same.
Could you just talk about how you can get the $4.60 because it's difficult to see the path even taking the guidance that you've laid out for the segments? Well the quick hit is Congress reauthorized the R&amp;D tax credit.
That'd be one way.
And as is always the case when you have 6 months left to go we have opportunities as well as risks.
We're trying to balance those and it's for that reason that we lowered our revenue guidance.
But both businesses have done a great job of controlling costs.
And I would say that there's enough vagary in the sales forecasting for the balance of the year where there -- if there was no chance to get there we would have not -- we would have narrowed the range.
But I think at this time we can't say that.
Research Division</strong> So can you get there without the R&amp;D tax credit extension or no? I think we can get higher than the mid-range without that yes.
And like I said it's not without the realm of possibility.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clay can you talk a little bit more about Surface Solutions? Just in terms of I think back in February you thought it would be a near-20% decline in the quarter.
Now it was certainly over 30%.
And just talk a little bit about I guess what changed what's moving.
And then outside of disinvesting in the public safety are there other things you can do to restructure and resize that business? Well I think you can walk through that Sam real logical and it's very simple.
When we were talking about the acceleration of our -- I mean we changed sort of the implication in February as you suggested.
We are on the record talking about some erosion there.
It was specifically because we are also talking at the same time about our curtailing the investment in public safety.
So of the 3 impacts I talked about today that one had been obviously well forecast before today because it was within our power and so we knew that one was coming up.
The balance of it is this FireStorm order and so that tipped it basically from 20% to 30% down because it's in that portfolio as I said in my opening remarks.
So the erosion that we've seen from original guidance in Surface Solutions is almost exclusively related to those 2 items.
Remember this is a small portfolio so numbers do begin to mount up when you're talking about percentage changes.
Relative to the rest of the portfolio we're still analyzing that as you would expect us to.
We have made this one decision for vehicle safety systems.
There could be other things that we could consolidate or make some strategic determination.
But until we make that it would be inappropriate for me to talk about it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Pat can you just size the favorable warranty adjustment in -- within Government Systems and just your expectations for that warranty as we go through the rest of the year? Yes let me -- maybe if I could raise it up a little bit and talk about our reserve positions in total.
If you look at our 2 largest reserves we've got warranty reserves and customer incentives.
Those 2 basically net out for the quarter.
In fact on a net basis we've increased reserves by $3 million on lower sales.
But we are seeing the dynamic that warranty reserves are coming down in Government Systems and they're coming down for a couple of reasons.
One's pretty logical and that is sales are coming down.
Programs are finishing up.
So there were general warranty adjustments in the range of $8 million or so.
And then there was a specific warranty adjustment of $6 million related to a program and that is the JDAM the Joint Direct Attack Munitions.
And the source of that adjustment was really we designed out 2 products and as a result of -- or 2 components of that product.
And as a result of that redesign it improved both the reliability and the cost of repair for JDAMs.
And so as a result we were able to take a $6-million adjustment to that reserve.
So -- but again I'm not at all surprised that we're seeing warranty reserves come down on the government side and customer incentives come up on the commercial side because of course commercial sales are increasing.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Clay you're 9% on aftermarket.
You talked about a predominant driver there being provisioning.
But can you parse out provisioning versus spares and retrofit and give us a sense of the relative sizes of the growth there or lack thereof? And how biz jet aftermarket did? Well one I can tell you between air transport and biz jet aftermarket the air transport really drove it this year -- I mean this quarter excuse me largely because of that provisioning.
Biz jet aftermarket was a little lighter.
I'd say kind of mid-single digits this quarter.
But that's just because of the lumpy nature of it with some of the retrofits we scheduled out through the year.
We expect -- as a matter of fact our forecast would call for the biz jet aftermarket to strengthen through the rest of the year.
So as we've always said when you're dealing with aftermarket in both of these segments it does get a little lumpy depending on what's going on in there.
But I think if you were to take the provisioning out it would probably be I want to say still high single digits.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the biz jet side is it more discretionary or mandatory utilization-based activity you're looking for there? Well biz jet's always typically more driven by the discretionary retrofits we put in there because they don't get as many flight hours as the air transport fleet does whereas the air transport fleet typically is predominated by the MRO or the nondiscretionary.
I would say that because of the higher mix of these initial spare sales that we're overall in aftermarket about 50-50 now of the discretionary and nondiscretionary.
So what that would imply as you would expect is there's some growth in the nondiscretionary side because we put spares sort of in that category.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick one on product opportunity.
Wanted to see if there's any new development on C-130 for the Air Force as they look to go with a more off-the-shelf solution.
And then perhaps if you've seen any opening of a window on the MAX which is getting further specification detail.
And then just for Patrick what happens when this authorization is up? See that'd be 3 questions.
Let me see if I can go through the first 2 Rob.
What I can tell you is the Air Force is moving out very aggressively to replace the canceled C-130 AMP program.
We see a lot of activity there and we believe over -- that that procurement will take place over the course of our fiscal year '13 probably for most likely maybe an early '14 award.
And so in government terms that's pretty fast.
But yes I think they're aggressively moving to do that.
So we think that's a very distinct opportunity given the positions we have on other C-130s.
On the MAX those discussions are continuing.
I think as I said in the past we do not expect Boeing to make a decision on any of the subsystems probably until the end of this calendar year.
So it's going to take a little while before we know.
But I would say they're still talking about what's in the realm of the possible and we're still giving them certain ideas that they might factor in that.
And my guess it'll be a cost risk analysis as to what else they want to do to the airplane.
And Rob as it relates to the authorization I assume you're meaning share repurchase authorization.
And bottom line is we'll spend until we're out of authorization then we'll go back to the board and talk to them and likely get another authorization.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Clay I was wondering if you could just spend a few minutes on the Pro Line Fusion EDS and talk about the pipeline that's going on there and how many more slots you think you've got an opportunity to bid for over the next year or so.
Well remember Jason we're -- we just announced that we have this offering.
I think it's noteworthy that we already have a competitive win that's unannounced and as you might expect there's a lot of customer interest.
And so I'd say we're in the selling phase now and the orientation phase of making sure all of our customers know what the full spectrum of Pro Line Fusion is now.
Recall that even though we talk about EDS as a form factor for the light and small it's all based on the same software platform.
It all has the same features available to it.
It makes -- in fact I would contend we're the only avionics company that can offer that to OEMs to go through the full spectrum of their fleets with the same features look and feel.
We've offered some very exciting new technologies of touch screens and autonomous control and compact HUD that I think are first in the marketplace.
And so you would expect that to generate a lot of interest and it has.
And in fact I'd say the interest even transcends the business jet market.
As we have done in the past we believe there's opportunities to move EDS into military systems especially those that are looking for lower-cost lightweight upgrades to systems.
And we've even seen air transport OEMs curious about some of the features we've introduced.
So it's a very exciting time now and it's hard to predict exactly how that's going to roll out in orders but we're very bullish that the Fusion platform is going to be wildly successful.
In fact I would argue it already is given that we're working on 9 platforms that'll deliver in the next 5 years and those are just the ones that have been announced and there's some unannounced behind them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just a follow-up question kind of a clarification on a previous question.
Your exposure to Hawker you described is $30 million on the balance sheet.
Can you give us some sense of what the revenue exposure is on a quarterly basis over the last year or so? Well we don't break that out for any of our OEMs Jason and so I'm not going to do it for Hawker.
But suffice to say obviously the $30-million reduction that we took in commercial is attendant to I'll call it the times that they're going through.
They've been very again vocal about the fact that they've sort of slowed down their production as a result of some supply chain issues they've had.
And obviously there's probably just a mild amount of distraction and turbulence going on there.
So we believe we've adjusted responsibly for what that production rate's going to be and we've told you what that is.
But we're not going to break it out on a year-by-year and quarter-by-quarter basis because we don't do that for any of them.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just 14 questions for you Clay.
No I'll keep it to one.
A strategic question.
I was wondering as you look at your government portfolio and the some of the challenges that the budget and the industry is facing if there was any businesses there that you might consider selling off.
This is a time Rob where we're taking a hard look at the whole business.
As I've said before back in the halcyon days when this business was growing in double digits we had the opportunity to do a lot of venture investing into a host of new areas many of which were in that Surface Solutions area because the market looked strong and we could do that.
Well times have changed.
As a result of that we're taking a very hard look at all of our portfolios to make sure we understand what is core to our business first.
Second what we believe as this thing comes out and eventually it'll stabilize and get back to some normal growth and we want to be there with the kind of products that we believe our customers are going to need.
That will necessarily mean that there's probably a critical fewer than we have now components of the portfolio.
And again we've already suggested one of them where public safety is concerned that we're not going to invest in.
It's likely that we could look at others there but again it'd be premature for me to be any more specific than that right now.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned surface there.
Is this an element of the defense market where you say things are pretty fragmented and there could be some consolidation? Well I think there's some of that Rob.
I think it's more of where Surface Solutions is targeted.
And that's at the ground soldiers.
And as they pull back and reduce the force structure as the OPTEMPO reduces in Iraq and Afghanistan there's just going to be a natural contraction in that area.
Now there could still be some nuggets in there that could be highly valued and especially on the international market.
Again we're very strongly supportive of our FireStorm and we're getting strong interest in that worldwide because it is a forward air control targeting system that allows a lot better precision.
And when you're looking at ISR and precision and cyber and communication those are areas that the Department of Defense is going to need for a variety of reasons.
So our -- again our job is to just refocus this portfolio.
It's appropriate to the times and that's exactly what we're doing.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up kind of on Rob's question and expand it a little bit.
I mean part of it is that you have enviable margins and you've had them for a long time.
But it looks like the world's getting more competitive.
And could you sort of address some of the actions you're thinking about or are under consideration for taking out additional costs? Because it's clear that in some cases you probably lost some opportunities because of cost structure.
Yes I guess I would disagree with you a little bit.
I don't know of many competitions we go into that we feel competitively disadvantaged especially in our government markets.
I think the fact that we have such strong synergy between commercial and government the fact that we think fixed price and we're comfortable with fixed price makes us cost-competitive.
And the reason -- or one of the reasons we've been able to hold those high margins is because I think we start with some advantage there.
But that notwithstanding your thesis is correct.
These are times when you have to match your infrastructure to the reality of the world or you will quickly become non-cost competitive or have to sacrifice your margins.
And we are very intent on not doing that.
And I think the Government Systems folks have shown in extraordinary circumstances imagine that double-digit reductions in 2 quarters in a row and they've held at 20% margin.
I think kudos go to them for the work they've done.
So how have they done it? Well first of all we anticipated it and we took a number of restructuring actions last year.
And those restructuring actions like consolidating out of San Jose and closing some facilities down and relocating a lot of our manufacturing to lower cost areas has paid off.
I think the -- that they've been very aggressive in matching our headcount and our infrastructure to the realities of the programs as they've been reduced.
The nice thing about what we're going through now if you call it nice compared to what went through third quarter of last year after the continuing resolution is nobody saw that coming.
We see it coming now.
And if we see it coming we can pro-act as well as react when it happens.
And so we've been able to scale our headcount down according to what the infrastructure is.
And then everything else is just using lean efficiencies by consolidating the opportunities we have and absorption on the commercial side as it's coming down on government.
So we're not suffering the full absorption in our factories as a result of just our business model.
So I think those are examples Howard of a number of things we're doing to really watch what we can control.
And what we can control is that profitability the cost of our infrastructure and the ability to throw off good cash flow and that's what they're doing.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
And then sort of related to the cash flow comment because I do think that's very important is the dividend increase -- could you maybe elaborate a little bit more -- I know it's been maybe 4 years since there's been a dividend increase and mostly you've been focused on share repurchase opportunistically.
Is this a signal that maybe the payout ratio is going to match sort of earnings growth of 25-plus percent? Or is there an indication that you just can't find the right acquisitions to -- that are complementary at the moment? Howard as I mentioned in my prepared remarks the dividend increase is consistent with our capital deployment philosophy and we've always talked about having a dividend payout ratio in the 20% to 25% range.
We were drifting down towards the bottom of that range and so we in consultation with our board thought it was time to increase it.
We're now back up to sort of the top end of that range.
So I think it's a pattern that we followed in the past and you're absolutely correct.
We have not had an increase since 2008.
But that was really more a sign of the times as opposed to a change in philosophy.
So I would not read anything into our relative growth prospects from the fact that we increased the dividend.
It's really just reflecting a move towards the top end of that range that we've established and long held to.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Patrick just a clarification.
I guess first the -- so I know that the warranty adjustments within Government Systems so combined was about $14 million in the quarter and then there was an equal level of reserves taken at commercial? There was a -- what I described is there was a $14-million reserve adjustment in government.
That compares to a $9-million adjustment last year.
Commercial continues to accrue customer incentives which is another major liability for us.
And that accrual actually exceeded the adjustment at government.
Research Division</strong> But is that a typical -- is that a typical accrual rate? Or is that an increased reserve? I would say it's a typical accrual rate.
We know we tend to be pretty conservative with how we accrue.
We assume everyone's going to take advantage of those customer incentives and we inevitably have positive adjustments from -- on that accrual as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then I guess the follow-on question is that $14 million in government it sounds like at least $6 million of it is unsustainable because it was a onetime on the JDAM.
So how does the margin profile look for the rest of the year? Obviously you have increasing volume there but it's 200 basis points of help in the quarter.
I would say that we feel confident that the margin rate will increase over the course of the back half of the year because of the volume increase.
Research Division</strong> And the last one was there any change to incentive accrual because of the guidance adjustments? There was.
It was about $10 million.
It was spread across all of the businesses and corporate...
Research Division</strong> Okay so was it $5 million to $6 million this quarter? Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So 2 follow-ons.
The Hawker you've got $30 million of receivables.
They are the launch customer for what your down-scope Pro Line Fusion your #2 biz jet customer.
Maybe tell us what are you doing to kind of bound your exposure to kind of taking further negative hits as a result of their situation? Well we're staying very close to the situation Cai.
Obviously we stay in discussion with them as to what both their requirements are for shipments and their financial health.
And I would say those have been I think very candid and transparent discussions.
So first we're just staying apprised as best as we can of what they're doing and what their options are.
Relative to what we're doing to prepare for that we're going to act responsibly depending on what their circumstances are.
They've been very good about paying their bills.
If that changes obviously we'd have to review where our situation is on that.
So I think we're doing what we need to be doing right now Cai to be ready for that.
One of the difficulties and uncertainties is exactly how and when they're going to come out of this.
But one thing we do know is they have parts of their portfolio which fortunately are the parts we believe that we are strongest on which are very fungible and which are in some demand in the marketplace.
So however they do that we believe somebody's going to be making airplanes and they're going to be selling them and our stuff is going to be on them.
And so we just have to kind of sort our way through that as they move down that path.
LLC Research Division</strong> Terrific.
And then kind of on the plus side you mentioned FireStorm is a $40 million out of this year because it's moved to the right but now it's bigger.
So should we be adding an incremental $50 million to Surface Solutions next year? And can Surface Solutions actually be up next year despite the wind down in Iraq and Afghanistan? Well we'll have to wait and see what next year holds there Cai.
All we know is that this customer is very committed to this product.
They've reassured us of that.
I would say that this delay as you get into when you're dealing with a number of foreign countries they have their own system.
They have their own approval processes.
And more importantly we're always subject to export requirements and paperwork.
And that's what's really holding this up.
I think Kelly Ortberg when he spoke this past quarter made it very clear that we needed that order by about the end of March first of April in order for it to convert in the year.
And it's not because we can't build them that fast; it's because we can't get all the appropriate export/import approvals fast enough to assure that we can actually deliver that product.
So if you're looking for a holdup that's it.
It's this inevitable paperwork thing.
So it's not lack of interest in the product.
And I think as we go along one of the things that was a catalyst for the delay is that they had 2 separate orders that they were looking at 1 firm 1 option.
They've decided now to pick up that option and combine these 2 into a single buy.
So they still want it.
It's still going to happen.
It's going to be now in next year and we'll wait and see how big it gets there Cai.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
A lot has been asked so I thought maybe I'd touch on this new China joint venture that you have with AVIC and the new Avionics company.
I know the focus is on the COMAC 919 but I thought maybe you can make some comments here if this covers any other platforms besides the 919.
Also when do you expect approval from the Chinese government? Are you developing technology jointly with AVIC that could be used in other markets? And finally are you also looking at other JVs? Okay let me see if I can answer all the parts of that one.
Well first of all the one we signed if you recall is the surveillance system one with LETRI.
We still have another.
We're negotiating for the communication navigation systems that we're providing over there.
We -- the focus is initially on the 919 as you suggest.
However while we're over there at our meetings with both AVIC and COMAC and most especially with AVIC because this joint venture this LETRI organization is a subsidiary of AVIC we did talk about other markets and some advantages.
As we all know China is very interested in moving into business aviation in some way.
And they're very interested again in our Pro Line Fusion and what we can bring to them in terms of product and synergy into that market so we talked about that some.
And we already have a relationship with them in the regional market on the ARJ21.
So I think as the aviation market grows in China we are very well positioned to grow with that.
And these joint ventures are only one arm of the many channels that I think we are establishing into China.
We have to remember we've been in China for 28 years.
We've been dealing with AVIC for 23 years since our first formal agreement with them.
They know us well and I think there -- other opportunities present themselves Rockwell Collins will be there we hope to be a part of that.
Relative to the joint venture most of the joint venture as we've said before is focusing on systems integration and certification of our product into the COMAC 919.
It is not involved with both design and production of the product itself.
That will still be done in United States in our current factories.
And so they're focusing on the thing where they need to build more expertise which is on those integration and certification areas.
And that's where the predominant focus of the joint venture is.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to get back to the government margins.
And I can appreciate Clay that later in the year your volume goes up.
That's going to help.
But just thinking a little bit more longer run or intermediate term going into next year and the year after we're in this down trend obviously with the budget.
You had some help this quarter from declining sales.
At some point your sales are going to stop going down.
They're going to flatten out at some point and you're not going to have maybe some of the help.
You can't lower R&amp;D forever.
The warranty reserves can't come down forever.
Do you still think you can sustain 20% in this business? I do.
I'm very confident we can do that if conditions remain as they are right now Joe.
Well first of all when it plateaus or starts to stabilize we won't need to lower R&amp;D anymore.
We won't need to reduce warranty anymore because as Pat very well pointed out those sort of come with the territory.
You end products you have -- you produce less of them you need less warranty and so we're making those prudent reserves as a result of that.
I think that can be overplayed and I don't think it's necessary to be done.
The back half of the year is not as strong as we thought it was going to be but positive growth is like manna from heaven over there.
Not a lot of companies in defense are going to see positive growth for a while.
And so the fact that were going to have a couple of quarters of it is -- now we got balloons being built and rockets going on up there because now you actually have some tailwind going to help you sustain those margins.
And I think you'll see stronger margins attendant to that as you would expect to see over Government Systems.
As we move forward I see the dynamics such that we can do it because number one as I said before we're going to focus our portfolio on those things that we do best where we have best market positions where we have a lot of commercial content.
And we have a lot of fixed price in commercial terms contracted which is what generates the margin there.
We're also going to focus on a lot of international opportunities.
And international opportunities we think will be again more to those kind of products that already come with good high margins.
So if we can execute our strategic plans and move the portfolio and our sales into the area where there are opportunities controlling what we can control with infrastructure we do believe right now absent some other extraneous situation or a 15% or 20% decline that might be caused by sequestration that we can hold those margins in that area.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly Patrick just on the cash flow.
It's definitely second half-weighted and you said that previously and we see that.
Can you walk through what the moving parts are on working capital in the second half of the year and just how we get to your guidance? And then specifically on inventory do you still expect to hold inventory growth to 0 x preproduction? Yes and that's obviously one of the major moving parts to the cash flow.
What we typically see and what we're planning on again this year is back half of the year much higher sales brings inventory down.
We have higher receivable collections.
And all of that -- and we don't have things like pension payments and incentive compensation payments.
And so when you put that all into the mix it indicates that there should be an awful lot higher cash flow in the back of the year particularly as a percentage of net income.
So I still feel confident that we'll reach our cash flow goals.
We are planning on having relatively flat inventory x preproduction engineering and that hasn't changed.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Probably for you Patrick.
The commercial incremental margin was like 64% and I know you guys have high incrementals.
But that seems extraordinarily high.
Was there any benefit in there? Or what caused it to be that high this quarter? Well what I'd say there were a couple of small things George.
There was a little bit of a -- we had an intellectual property sale that came at a very high margin about a couple of million dollars there.
And there was a couple of million dollars of benefit from incentive compensation as a result of the reduction of our sales guidance.
Your next question comes from the line of Yair Rainier with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> The 787 appears to be trickling out to the airlines a bit more slowly than originally planned.
Can you discuss how that could potentially impact provisioning as you move through the year? And maybe to what extent you've built any risk around that into your forecast for the back half? Well obviously the rate of delivery really does impact their need to provision for spares.
And the way I would say it is it's not the volume of 787s delivered but it's the number of airlines that they're delivered to.
And so long as they're operating 1 or 5 they're going to need some spares to support that aircraft.
What we see happening is that Boeing is delivering according to their schedule.
If there's some vagary back and forth to that then that -- we'll adjust to that.
What I will say is that for our plans for the year most of those spares decisions have been made.
And so what -- in our forecast for the balance of the year as you're looking in the aftermarket you'll see less impact to those sparing decisions because a lot of those have already been made and delivered.
And as we go through this I would say transition to the next airline that's taking them we're expecting that to sort of be on a slowing trajectory for the balance of this year and then hopefully again pick up next year.
We said very clearly there's going to be some lumpiness to this as a function of 2 things: the airlines they deliver to and who makes those decisions as you suggest; and also whether they choose power by the hour or they choose to buy the spares out right.
So anybody that's drawing a straight line on spares provisioning is making a big mistake because I can guarantee you it won't work like that.
And so you're going to have to just kind of track it across there.
But at least I can tell you that we've got most of those sort of on the books for the year and we're counting on fewer for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then one more if I could.
You mentioned the impact you're going to have in terms of the top line from cutting investment in public safety vehicle systems.
Can you give us a sense of what the impact good or bad will be in terms of the operating profit for the year? The only thing I'd tell you is that that public safety specifically came at very low margins so the impact of that is not going to be significant.
Research Division</strong> So in terms of margin it's probably a beneficial? Marginally a little bit yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Patrick just Clay back on the 787 you've been running ahead of Boeing on the OE side at 4 per month.
What is the typical lead time for you on a program like this that's ramping up aggressively? Well if this was a typical run rate for Boeing we typically get 2 orders a year about every 6 months.
So they'll look at their skyline chart.
They'll give us a slug of orders for what they're delivering say 6 months hence.
And then we get another slug in another 6 months.
This is anything but that right now because of the relative volatility of that program.
So at some point we'll get to that.
As I've said before we're going to expect to be holding at this 4-per-month rate into next fiscal year.
And that at whatever time Boeing has begun to use up that cash of deliveries then we'll begin to start synchronizing with them as they ramp up to their 10 per month.
And right now I can't tell you when that's going to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly a follow-up on aftermarket.
Are you seeing any material changes or anything international versus domestic? And I guess I'm just thinking of Europe here.
Just given the economic weakness are you seeing anything changes there on the air transport side? Nothing significant.
You can't call it that close as we're seeing there now.
We're seeing -- again aftermarket is good worldwide right now and it's good mainly because in the MRO people are flying the airplanes a lot and the passenger traffic is still remaining strong worldwide.
And so that's the big MRO driver.
In terms of retrofits upgrades I'd mentioned again that the initial provisioning is the biggest driver but we are always looking at upgrades and retrofits to various programs.
We've got a very nice one now with FedEx that we're doing that will drive that a little while.
So there are things like that that come along all the time.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert with Wedbush.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the margin question for the Commercial Systems segment.
Obviously it sounds like in the quarter you had a couple of one-time items but the incrementals were very strong.
Is this a run rate that we should expect considering the guidance and considering what you've talked about about the outlook for regional equipment in the aftermarket within the commercial side moving forward? I think it's fair to say you're going to see continued margin expansion.
Now as you think about the incremental margins I'd say -- I've reiterated this a lot.
We tend to run about 40% to 50% incremental margins sometimes a little bit higher than that based on product mix.
As I mentioned we had an intellectual property sale this quarter which improved the mix.
But 40% to 50% incremental margins is what you should be thinking about going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And for the -- again for the commercial segment I mean you're starting to hopefully now get into a bit more of a sweet spot as volumes on the original equipment side continue to pick up and aftermarket continues to evolve here.
What -- just more strategically when you go out 1 to 2 years what can margins in this business get to? Or is there anything we should think about in terms of sort of absolute upside here? Well I think you'll absolutely see continued margin expansion as long as sales continue to go up.
Now I'd hate to predict the peak of those margins because it all depends upon where the top line goes and how fast it gets there but I think there's still an awful lot of potential for margin expansion in this business.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess Clay just a follow-up on maybe what Peter was asking about the aftermarket.
It sounds like you've got a very good comfort level and handle on the sparing opportunities.
When you're planning for the remainder of the year some of the uncertainty -- you mentioned Europe with high fuel prices.
We've seen a lot of airline bankruptcies.
How do you kind of navigate those challenges? And sort of -- are you -- do you anticipate the strength in your general sparing outside the initial provisioning to continue on a go-forward basis here? Yes I think for example we model the MRO side pretty closely with flight hours as I mentioned before.
And that's relatively predictable.
We can see that.
Obviously the most difficult thing we do is the discretionary part of the aftermarket.
Some of that where we have given programs for modifications and retrofits either in the business jet world or air transport we can relatively predict although if the airline gets -- times get tight they can turn it off turn it on delay it.
So there's still some vagary on that.
And then there's always drop-in things that you see that people want to do.
Again this occurs more in the business jet world when someone is going to make a retrofit or upgrade to a display or to an information management system or put a new system on there.
Those are the most wildly unpredictable.
We try to talk to our dealers our end customers to get a good sense of that and then we just model as best we can.
That's why I go back to my point of on a year-to-year basis we can probably get a good sense of it.
On a quarter-to-quarter basis you almost can't call it accurately that close just because of the vagary of the decision in the discretionary side.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just the last one.
Can you characterize how the defense -- your defense bookings were in the quarter? Did you see...
Well let me put it this way.
We see our booking flow going fairly efficiently.
And that's a relative term when you're dealing with government as you know.
But I know that we've heard some talk about some slowdown or some inefficiency in orders which we saw big time last year and maybe that's what we're comparing it to after CR.
We're not really seeing that.
We're seeing contracting activity kind of occur as we would expect it to.
We're not seeing any inordinate shift and slowdown to that order flow from the U.S.
government.
International different story as I've talked about here.
So we've not at least seen that dynamic play to a great deal.
And your final question comes from the line of Carter Leake with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Navigation Products down 37% but we pretty much expected that.
I think in the past you spoke that this could sort of be a bottom.
Is that still true? Or could you provide any color on when we might see growth in nav products? As you know most of that Carter is being driven by the DAGR reduction.
I don't think we're at the bottom yet.
I think the biggest comparable occurred in the first half of this year and so I'd say the biggest percentage change is behind us.
But I expect there to be decline in that portfolio through the balance of the year as the inevitable -- as you chase the comparable if you will from the strong DAGR sales from the previous years.
And so they're going to get down to whatever sustainable is and I don't think we have a firm grip on what that is right now.
So let me say we're comfortable with the guidance we've given for that portfolio in the total year reduction and we don't see any big change to that.
And if you can say anything about that that 25% reduction has occurred about like we thought it would.
So I don't see any big changes there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On Hawker how about just looking at aftermarket incumbent platforms? Is the King Air your largest exposure on aftermarket with them? On aftermarket I don't know if I can give you a firm answer to that Carter.
And I don't want to give you an answer I've not well studied.
I can tell you it's the largest exposure on the OE side.
But in terms of aftermarket sales I'd have to go research that a little bit.
I can't answer that.
Research Division</strong> And just one more quick one.
You spoke about the KC-390.
You're optimistic about that and you also said there are opportunities with the Brazilian MoD.
Is that in concert with Embraer? Or is that exclusive and separated if you will almost in competition with Embraer? Well we're definitely not in competition with Embraer.
Embraer is the systems integrator.
It's sort of the Boeing Airbus of Brazil if you will.
And they're assuming that role and obviously have been very successful doing it.
And so what I would say is most of the sales that we've had in the airborne area have been in concert with Embraer working with them and frankly have extended from the excellent relationship that we have with them on the legacy platforms that we've been working on with Pro Line Fusion.
And so that's there.
The other -- the importance of the MoD relationship is that there are a number of communications and other military systems platforms that Brazil is aggressively pursuing as it gears up for the World Cup and the Olympics and basically just being a bigger player on the global stage that we believe are opening up to us with some of our other competencies as we use this initial KC program to strengthen the relationship.
We think that can bridge itself to some other opportunities.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thanks Darla.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
We want to thank you all for joining us and participating in today's conference call.
This concludes Rockwell Collins' Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins' Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introduction I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Bonnie and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today at our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note that today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
Of the 3 primary markets we address government air transports and business jets 2 of them have followed a relatively predictable course so far this year.
We felt government was going to be weak and following a decline in first half with growth in the second half.
Results this quarter indicate that's exactly what's happened.
We forecast its strong growth in the air transport sectors Boeing and Airbus increased production rates no backlog.
And despite a slower aftermarket growth this quarter air transport is up across the board in double-digits for the year-to-date.
However the market that has proven to be the most unpredictable for a variety of reasons is business jets.
Our original guidance for Commercial Systems at the beginning of the year was low double-digit growth.
We now expect high single-digit growth with all of the reduction resulting from the Hawker Beechcraft bankruptcy and the slowdown in the business jet aftermarket.
Neither of which was expected when we set guidance for the year last September.
Most of this market is in a recovery mode.
And we continue to expect deliveries -- increased deliveries at all of the OEMs except Hawker.
That said the recovery is not as robust as we and the OEMs thought it would be at this point which I believe is a reflection of the state of the global economy.
This has had a particularly significant impact at the light end of the market where OEMs are still struggling to fill orders and build backlog.
As a result we are revising our guidance for the year to reflect the updated realities of this market.
First we are lowering our cash flow from operations to about $600 million due to lower collections of accounts receivable from Hawker Beechcraft and higher expected tax payments.
Second we're revising our revenue guidance to about $4.8 billion which incorporates the updated outlook for business jets.
This includes a $25 million reduction to OEM revenue for the Hawker Beechcraft temporary production shutdown and revised build rate which I disclosed earlier this quarter and lower expectations for aftermarket growth by $25 million driven by a slower global economic recovery that has limited discretionary spending and business jet utilization.
Even with those revisions to revenue we continue to forecast completing the year within our original EPS guidance range but have narrowed our expectations toward the lower end of that range to $4.40 to $4.50 per share.
I should note that I am very pleased with how our company has managed things within our control and taken appropriate actions to maintain this high level of profitability.
As you can see in our Commercial Systems results much of the impact that led to revised guidance I just discussed was realized in the third fiscal quarter.
However to give you a better look in context of our ongoing Commercial Systems business if I exclude from our revenue the impacts of the Hawker bankruptcy and some onetime benefits we experienced last year Commercial Systems would have experienced high single-digit revenue growth this quarter.
That level of growth is the same as the second quarter and similar to what we expect in the fourth quarter.
By now you've all had a chance to review our press release so I'll let Patrick cover the details of the third quarter results in just a few minutes.
However I do want to point out a few key aspects of the quarter that I think are particularly noteworthy.
In Government Systems some of the headwinds affecting our first half results have diminished and we're now beginning to see the benefits of previous market share gains.
Avionics grew 11% this quarter on the strength of the 3 Tanker Programs we captured last year the KC-46 the KC-10 and the KC-390 as well as increased revenue from Saudi F-15 fighters.
We've had great success over the past couple of years winning positions and are now beginning to drive some meaningful growth in this business.
Additionally we saw a 9% increase in Communications Products based on increased deliveries of our networking and data link products.
Another notable aspect of our results this quarter was strengthening growth in our air transport OEM sales which increased 19%.
Finally I would note that despite modest sales growth we expanded total corporate operating margins by 20 basis points to 21% and reported Government Systems margins above 20% for the 15th consecutive quarter.
The previous 4 of which had negative revenue growth.
Over time I believe we have consistently demonstrated our ability to deliver strong operating performance by managing our cost structure in the face of some very dynamic market conditions.
Now as we begin to look forward to 2013 I expect many of the difficult market conditions we've experienced recently to continue.
For Government Systems the threat of sequestration has created uncertainty and will challenge our ability to accurately forecast the market and our performance in it.
In any case we fully expect U.S.
Defense investment budgets to continue declining next year.
While defense will slow in the U.S.
numerous international opportunities exist and should become an increasing contributor to the business.
This includes recent wins on the KC-390 transport in Brazil the F-15 fighters in Saudi Arabia and just this quarter we expanded our FireStorm product in Australia with a $70 million contract award.
In Commercial Systems we're forecasting double-digit growth over the longer term but that growth will not be linear.
Next year we expect the air transport market to remain strong with additional production rate increases.
However for the 787 program it's important to remind everyone that we will be delivering at a rate of 4 ship sets per month well into next year.
As Boeing increases their production rates they will begin to burn off existing inventory of our products and eventually synchronize our deliveries to their rates.
We just don't expect that to happen until the latter part of next year.
The business jet market has been difficult to predict and any recovery next year will be dependent on the trajectory of the global economy.
Over the past few years we've had a number of market share gains which have provided above market rates of growth to offset the false starts in the economic recovery we've experienced the last couple of years.
As I look into next year there are no new aircraft entering service that will materially drive revenue growth above the market rate of growth.
However beyond 2013 the benefits of market share gains should again contribute and allow us to grow at beyond market rates.
Commercial Systems aftermarket will again benefit from demand for spares as airlines take initial deliveries of the 787.
All of the growth will be a bit less now that we have this year's deliveries in the base.
The remainder of the aftermarket will be highly dependent on the pace of economic recovery which drive discretionary purchases and increased aircraft utilization.
This is likely to be as difficult to predict next year as it's been for the previous 3.
While it's a sober picture in the near term there is a lot to get excited about when I look just a bit further out.
We have the ramp of 787 deliveries which will substantially benefit our business followed by the entry into the service of the A350 and the CSeries.
The 2 new international jets the MRJ and the ARJ21  will bring new products to the Regional Jet segment over the next few years.
And finally we have the continuation of our business jet market share capture as the Embraer 500 and 450 the Lear 85 and the Global 7000 and 8000 of Bombardier enter into service.
With any stabilization in our government business along the way which I believe will happen Rockwell Collins is very well-positioned to generate strong revenue profit and cash flow performance.
Meanwhile we will remain focused on operating our business as efficiently as possible generating high returns on invested capital and position the company and its share owners for future success.
So with that let me now turn the call over to Patrick.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
Let's get started by first reviewing our results for the total company that are shown on Slides 3 and 4.
Total company sales for the quarter came in at $1.21 billion a 1% increase from last year.
Income and earnings per share from continuing operations increased 6% and 13% respectively.
The greater increase in earnings per share when compared with net income was due to the share repurchases.
Income from continuing operations included a $7 million benefit from lower tax rate primarily driven by the remeasurement of certain tax reserves.
This benefit only partially offsets the adverse impacts from the Hawker Beechcraft bankruptcy and temporary production shutdown which totaled $8 million after tax.
The increased operating performance this quarter was mostly due to continued strength in the air transport OEM deliveries and lower discretionary spending in Government Systems.
Turning to Slides 5 and 6 we have the third quarter results of our Commercial Systems business which reported revenues of $526 million up 1% from the second quarter last year.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $10 million or 4% to $295 million driven by increased sales to Boeing and Airbus resulting from higher production rates across their product lines partially offset by lower deliveries to Hawker Beechcraft due to a temporary production shutdown.
Aftermarket sales declined $1 million to $208 million driven by lower spare sales which tend to be lumpy across the year.
Commercial Systems operating earnings decreased to $105 million or 20% of sales compared to the  operating earnings of $107 million or 20.5% of sales in the third quarter last year.
The decrease in operating earnings is primarily due to a bad debt charge related to the bankruptcy at Hawker Beechcraft.
On Slide 7 Government Systems revenue grew 2% this quarter to $679 million.
Avionics sales increased $40 million or 11% to $393 million from increased sales for Saudi F-15 fighters and the KC-46 KC-10 and KC-390 Tanker programs.
Sales in communication products were also strong with an increase of 9% to $178 million due to increased sales of network communication and data link products.
Surface Solutions sales decreased 39% to $50 million principally driven by 2 programs which were previously terminated for convenience also lower sales on the Joint Precision Approach and Landing System or JPALS program as it transitions for development to production and reduced deliveries of optical products for surface-based programs.
Finally Navigation Products sales were down 16% to $58 million driven by fewer deliveries of our GPS receivers.
Slide 8 shows Government Systems third quarter operating earnings which were $148 million or 21.8% of sales compared to $141 million or 21.1% last year.
The improved operating performance is primarily due to lower discretionary spending partially offset by the absence of favorable warranty reserve adjustment recorded last year.
Additionally a less favorable hardware sales mix offset a $6 million benefit from a favorable EAC adjustment.
On Slide 9 we have our 9-month year-to-date total company financial results for sales EPS from continuing operations income from continuing operations and operating cash flow.
So far this year sales have decreased by 1% as the headwinds in Government Systems have been mostly offset with growth in Commercial Systems.
Our year-to-date operating cash flow of $192 million is behind last year due to increased payments for employee incentive compensation and higher income tax payments partially offset by higher receipts for customer advances.
Moving to Slide 10 we show the status of our capital structure.
As of the end of the third quarter we had $778 million of long-term debt and $201 million of short-term debt outstanding compared to $528 million of long-term debt at the end of fiscal 2011.
We believe our debt to total capital ratio of 43% in combination with our investment-grade credit ratings provides us access to liquidity in a cost-effective manner.
If you turn to Slide 11 we provide details related to the updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the third quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased 3.8 million shares of stock at an average cost of $52.24 per share.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to 76 million shares or $3.7 billion return to share owners through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
Additionally the Board of Directors recently approved an incremental $500 million increase to the share repurchase authorization.
That brings our currently available authorization up to $502 million.
In addition to returning capital to share owners through share repurchases we also increased our quarterly dividend by 25% to $0.30 per share.
Now onto our final slide Slide 12 where we provide the details of our updated fiscal year 2012 financial guidance.
As Clay mentioned in his opening remarks we have made some revisions and tightened our guidance ranges.
We now expect sales to be about $4.8 billion for the year.
Government Systems revenue expectations are unchanged but we now expect Commercial Systems sales growth for the year to be in the high single-digits after incorporating the impacts of the Hawker Beechcraft bankruptcy and the more moderated business jet aftermarket outlook.
Even though we've incorporated substantial market-driven revenue headwind this year we are still expecting to finish within our original EPS guidance range currently at $4.40 to $4.50.
I feel that is a testament to our continued focus on operational performance and execution.
We also adjusted our tax rate expectations to about 29% for the full year and our cash flow guidance to about $600 million reflecting a reduction of about $30 million in collections from Hawker Beechcraft and higher tax payments related to changes in future expected pension contributions.
Just this last quarter Congress passed the Transportation Bill which included provisions providing companies some relief on required pension contributions.
Prior to that legislation we have been expecting mandatory contributions of about $220 million next year compared to our $110 million contribution this year.
Now while we have not fully determined what level of pension funding we'll make next year the new regulation provides us with much more flexibility relative to capital deployment.
That completes the final review of the financial results and projections so Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thanks Patrick.
In order to get everyone an opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit to 1 question per caller.
If you have further questions simply reinsert yourself into the queue and we'll answer those additional questions as time permits.
Bonnie we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert Stallard of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry I don't mean to kick off on the aftermarket and the $1 million decline year-on-year.
I was wondering if you can you give any more color on perhaps what sort of aircraft have been most impacted by this decline if there's any regional variances here or if you see any share loss to contribute to this? Well certainly we don't see any share loss contributing to it at all Rob.
What I would say is you could take the aftermarket and split it into the 2 pieces the air transport business and regional and there are slightly different dynamics between the 2.
In the air transport side I believe that the basic MRO it actually grew this quarter in low single-digits about with the pace of traffic growth which is what you would expect.
So that was relatively predictable.
And then if you look at the retrofit side which is making up a greater portion now of it of recent -- in this year at least because of the large group of 787 spares that we've experienced in the first half of the years the size of that abated this quarter and then there was a significant lumpiness in the sale of spares to legacy aircraft.
I attribute that to primary just timing.
We have always said since we've been talking about the retrofit side of the aftermarket that it comes and goes it's lumpy it happens when the airlines have cash and decided to do it.
We do not at this time think that that is a result of any tightening of discretionary spending specifically but it's a timing issue.
And in fact if you look in the next quarter we're projecting that to return to a high single-digit type growth rate for air transport.
So I don't view anything in the aftermarket relative to air transport is a systemic change or a big difference it was a timing issue more than anything else.
In the business jet though I think you have different dynamics.
In this case we did see a reduction a very slight reduction in the MRO market and I do think that is a result of the slowdown in business jet utilization.
We talked here recently over the last couple of months that what we were seeing against our projections at the beginning of the year of a 2% to 3% growth in utilization is that year-to-date it's been flat and we've seen nothing to indicate that that's going to increase for the balance of the year.
And I would say that was the primary determinant of us dropping the revenue forecast by $25 million in the business jet aftermarket part.
Contributing to that I believe is a lowering in discretionary retrofits and I believe that's directly proportional to a lot of belt tightening that's going on around the world especially in Europe relative to upgrades and improvements to business jets.
And so that dynamic I think in business jets is more focused on the economy and what we might see as a slowing.
If that helps.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a clarification on the business jet are you seeing any differences between smaller or midsized-cabin jets and the large jets? Not in the aftermarket.
We're actually seeing -- and actually we contract the long-range pretty well through our Air Routing acquisition that tracks light travels.
And what we're seeing is just less use of those aircraft on international trips.
Our next question comes from Heidi Wood of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Clay I think your margin guidance at the top of the range in this environment is impressive and can you talk about things that you are doing in terms on the cost side? What are your additional opportunities on the cost side? How far along are you? Well we've taken a lot of actions actually took another restructuring charge this quarter reflecting a reduction of headcount and that headcount has come principally out of our Government Systems business but we're also adjusting our shared service spending to continue to manage margins.
Another impact is our incentive compensation program which is designed to reduce the payout as our performance comes down with the market.
And so we've seen some benefit from the incentive compensation part as well.
I would say this Heidi I think we're going to continue to manage our cost structure the way we have in the past and I would say we're right in the middle of that process right now.
Yes.
What I would also add to that is this is kind of unfortunately not our first rodeo.
I was counting the other day this is the 6th cyclical change we've seen in the roughly 11 years we've been a public company.
And so I think our guys are getting very good at anticipating these changes and acting very quickly to do that.
As Patrick -- I'd reinforce what Patrick said if revenues were going up then we'd be talking about a drag of incentive compensation as we add it to that as we shared that with our employees but when it goes down we realized that that's another lever that we built into our system that allows us to continue to deliver this kind of profitability performance.
Research Division</strong> But oftentimes Clay and Patrick the managements can be tempted to shave their R&amp;D in these periods of time.
Can you talk about how we should think about expectations for R&amp;D going forward? Well we did suggest in the guidance here that R&amp;D expectation for the year is going down.
But I would say that's a combination of 2 things.
One is that the government the customer-funded R&amp;D has been reduced to a certain extent over the year and the second thing is that we've taken some of the R&amp;D that frankly we don't need anymore.
I think most specifically out of something like public safety which we started the year thinking that was going to be a totally discretionary investment and we've now eliminated that as part of this restructuring I've been talking about in Government Systems.
We're continuing to look at what we really need to look like and what is core to our business going forward.
And some of the decisions we've made not to invest in ground vehicle systems not to invest in soldier systems not to invest in public safety has allowed us to reduce some of the R&amp;D but it's in the areas that we don't think are core to the business.
In the meantime we're spending very robustly in the commercial side of our business for the instantiations of all the Pro Line Fusion cockpits are going to be going in the CSeries that I mentioned is still an investment the A350 we're still investing in as we bring that closer to certification.
And so none of that has been reduced as we look at what's core to the company.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on share repurchase.
You guys continue to buy back a lot of stock.
You did issue -- or the Board did issue a lower authorization than the last one during the quarter I noticed though and your balance sheet is up to 43% debt to cap.
So my question is what if anything can we read into those in terms of our restraints on future activity? I wouldn't read anything into the size of the reauthorization.
What I would say is though we are going to continue to be active in the share repurchase program both this -- for the remainder of this year and going into next year I would also comment that the guidance does not assume a significant benefit from fourth quarter share repurchases.
So I think you'll see that the activity be somewhat less in the fourth quarter than you've seen over the course of the balance of the year.
But Joe we still remain committed to returning value to share owners through dividends and share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Patrick what's your -- in terms of the rating what is your understanding of how high you can go on the debt to total capital metric to maintain your rating and how important is maintaining that rating? We haven't had any discrete discussions with respect to the rating agencies -- with the rating agencies with respect to that metric so I'd hate to speculate on that.
As a matter of fact they don't like to do that with us.
So I do believe we have some room in the current rating to increase debt to total capital.
Our next question comes from Richard Safran of Buckingham Research.
I just have a quick question here on the dispatch services contract you've signed with China.
I think you have 6 airlines signed up so far.
I just wanted to know if you could provide any color on how you see 787 services trending what your expectations are for just service solutions in general there? Well we have long said that our -- at least planning guideline is that roughly half of the 787 customers will choose to dispatch power by the hour approach to service and the other half will buy the spares outright.
With a relatively limited sample size today that's about how it's playing out.
Now we have had a recent number of selections that we announced at Farnborough that have chosen the dispatch approach which if I had to shave it one way or the other for the long-term health of the business that would be our preference.
We just feel that that being a new product in the avionics field it would be unwise to suggest more than half would be doing it and I think we'll wait and see it play out to see if we're off on those percentages.
But that's what our expectation is.
I think for the decisions in China where there is perhaps more acceptance of that it's why we've been particularly successful in that dispatch 100 product.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick clarification and then a question on R&amp;D.
Pat can you size the benefit from incentive comp in the second half due to the lower accruals? Well I would say this it's probably in the range of about $45 million.
[indiscernible] 2 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the R&amp;D you're going to exit in the fourth quarter with obviously a much lower run rate in R&amp;D than what you were thinking before.
It looked like you were expecting quite a bit ramp up in the fourth quarter.
How should we think about what that means for how R&amp;D trends in 2013? It looks like the run rate is going to look more flattish sequentially.
Is that something that will remain in 2013 in fiscal '13 or is it going to re-ramp just later? Well the unfortunate way that we disclose the R&amp;D amount I think is not very transparent to the actual amount of R&amp;D we're spending.
And we've tried to over the course of a host of conversations talk about the deferred engineering rate that we have on our balance sheet that that is an inventory item that confuses a lot of people but that's the way you account for it.
That is going to total about $130 million this year.
So even with this reduction we'll spend about $1 billion a year and we'll be up year-over-year in R&amp;D.
I would expect as we go into next year that we'll probably be up again.
I can't remember a year in my history here at Rockwell Collins we're we've not increased R&amp;D year-over-year.
So even though the run rate is changing a little bit for reasons I just described to Heidi's question I would expect that our move into new product lines our success in the market and I would say in both sides both government and commercial should allow us to continue to increase that R&amp;D expenditures as we are winning new programs.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Clay at Government Systems I know you're facing some headwinds some specific program headwinds next year could you walk us through those and maybe give some color if whether Government Systems is down? Assuming the sequester doesn't happen if Government Systems is down in the same range next year or could it potentially be down even more than what we're seeing in '12? Well I think the specific things we've said before David is we have a continuation of the DAGR reductions that have plagued us this year I think will continue into next year primarily as a function of the up-tempo in this case in Afghanistan as well as Iraq coming down and they have plenty of inventory of that.
So we had forecast a fairly dramatic couple of year reduction in DAGR and that will continue into '13.
That would be one large one.
The largest one of the bunch is the E6 program that we have.
It'll be transitioning next year from development into production and as is typically the case we saw that in KC-135 we mentioned it in JPALS this quarter you're going to see a reduction in spending as they test the airplane and get the approvals to move into production.
And that will probably be the largest one and I think that's -- we've actually quantified that to about $50 million of headwind there.
And I think programmatically those are probably the 2 largest one that we have.
To the second part of your question that's such a hard question to answer there David.
When we think -- when we're thinking through our budgetary process this year we're probably going to do it in scenarios with and without sequestration.
I would say that Kelly Ortberg and his team are still working on that and for me to give you a order of magnitude would probably be premature today but coming to a theater near you.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on FireStorm I know you're expecting some upside there is the contract signed or when should we expect that? The contract is not signed.
We would hope we would be able to be in a position to announce it this quarter but that is largely dependent on the pace of the procurement chain in the Middle East.
If we've learned anything over time one must exercise patience.
But we do know this the contract is moving through the process.
We have people in-country that have validated that and now it's just a matter of getting it on the right desk with the right signature and we're hopeful that will happen this quarter.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Patrick you said that you're down $45 million in incentive comp so my recollection is that was set at $90 million so are we to believe that it's now $45 million? And could you give us a little color how that...
Yes.
As I reflect on that Cai I may have overstated that a little bit.
It's probably closer to $35 million to $40 million and what I'd say is that the incentive compensation right now is set around 60%.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so how should we think I mean just notionally you always reset it to 100% which is $100 million so that's going to be a headwind next year and your tax rate is lower in this quarter where is it going to be for the year and isn't that going to be a headwind for next year also? Certainly if the Congress does not pass the R&amp;D tax credit it will be a headwind for next year.
The tax rate I would suggest will probably be somewhere in the 31% 32% range for next year.
And obviously incentive compensation will be a headwind as well because you're right we do reset it to $100 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> And where is the tax rate this year? We are forecasting it to be about 29% for the full year.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> It's Amit Mehrotra here for Myles Walton.
Clay can you comment on the cadence of activity in the discretionary aftermarket during the quarter specifically on the large transport side? Was activity fairly constant throughout the quarter or was there any dropoff as the quarter progressed from the tail end? Well as I mentioned before the big dropoff was in the amount of spare sales that we delivered this quarter in the big air transport side.
A couple of things going on there a deceleration in 787 spares.
So sequentially we were down although we still deliver a few 787 spares.
In terms of year-over-year that wasn't a big contributor but the biggest one was in some of the legacy programs.
And again I attribute that more to timing than I believe there's any systemic change in buying behavior because we expect the discretionary side to be up in the fourth quarter and we have reasonably good visibility at this close range of what we're talking to airlines about right now.
So I think that's just a lumpy quarter perturbation again that we've always said exists in that market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Clay even with the revised free cash flow guidance the company looks to be in a pretty nice cash position I think in the next 6 to 9 months.
So would that -- how do you think about using cash to buy back shares versus maybe making acquisitions to more quickly increase the commercial mix in the business? We've always talked about our cash deployment philosophy and really it hasn't changed here.
Our first priority is acquisitions but it's a pretty sparse environment right now.
We haven't seen a lot of acquisition activity over the course of the last year or so.
So in the event that we don't see acquisitions we'll continue to return value to share owners through share repurchases and dividends.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Clay just going back to your comments in the monologue on '13.
With Defense down in fiscal '13 budget investment accounts are down you talked about some of the pressures there.
And commercial not up meaningfully until '14 and then Patrick just acknowledged you might have a higher tax rate is it fair to assume that any earnings growth in '13 has to be fully derived from the buyback? Well I don't want to really respond to that until we finish putting our budgets together Rob.
What I've tried to do is give you some of the macro dynamics that we're facing as we put our budgets together.
Obviously there's a host of things that we're still trying to settle in on the budget that could affect what that earnings power is going to be next year.
And so without question we've used the share buyback this year as an accelerant while we're going through a period of relatively flat growth.
And so if we go into next year with those same set of circumstances then obviously that -- you can reasonably intuit that that would be a source of growth next year as well.
But whether that's the only or major or how a proportion that is I think it would be premature for me to comment on that at this time.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you'll be able to guide mid -- is mid-September as you usually do? We're still thinking pretty deeply about that.
I would say right now we haven't absolutely made our mind up but I would say that we're now tending to guide probably with scenario ranges around what happens with or without sequestration to give people a sense of that very anomalous overhang to our business.
But again I'm going to wait to see what confidence we have when -- especially our Government Systems people put their budgets together and if I can with some degree of confidence give you that range of results or give you that look at what we expect to have under those conditions then I would -- it would be my preference to give guidance.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just on the aftermarket the outlook there at one point was for low double-digit growth for the year.
You're trending below that and the rate of growth appears to be slowing I just wondered if you could update us on where you expect the full year to come in.
And then for next year if you could without giving a number but just maybe talk about some of the puts and takes it seems like again the core business rate of growth is just getting tougher in terms of comparisons.
And then on the 787 initial sparing I'm assuming that's a pretty big -- a pretty tough comparison next year? Well first I would say that we're probably talking about high single-digit aftermarket growth now all-in specifically impacted by this business jet aftermarket reduction that we're taking now so that's the answer to your first question.
For the second question what I would say is yes I think I painted a picture that we are still going to continue on a tough market environment next year.
The venture's going to be down.
We think air transport's going to be up but with again increasingly difficult comparables.
And then business jets is going to be the swinger as to what happens in that area depending on the economy.
So that's the landscape we do see right now.
Relative to the 787 spares I think it will be a more difficult comparable but again they're delivering to more airlines next year so I'd still think that that will be a nice upper to our business next year it just won't be the same rate of upper that we saw specifically in the first half when we're reporting mid- to high-teens aftermarket growth in the air transport side.
So I don't think you'll see those levels but I still think you'll see that being a nice tailwind.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Okay.
And then just one other one.
Maybe this is for Patrick.
I'm just wondering if you could sort of speak to the sustainability of these government margins.
They've been fairly resilient in the face of clearly a tough top line environment then what appears to be tougher terms of trade coming out of the Pentagon.
If the government top line continues to decline what should we be looking for in terms of the sustainability of these government margins going forward? That's a tough question to answer Noah because it depends upon the rate of decline and where we see that decline.
I think over the course of the last couple of years we've managed the decline very well through restructuring action through aggressive cost reductions in the government side of the business obviously benefiting a little bit from mix because most of the revenues that came out have been relatively lower-margin development-type programs.
However I think over time we're going to continue to see some pressure from the volume being a negative headwind.
But if we continue to see a higher hardware mix and greater international sales that should be a tailwind.
So I'm thinking over the course of the next few years if we see a moderation of the reduction in government revenues we should be able to maintain that 20% to 22% margin.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Just a follow-up on the government margin.
If you look sequentially and take out the benefit last quarter it went from 19.4% to the 21.8% we saw this quarter.
Patrick if you could kind of walk through what the benefits were to that? I mean was the lower R&amp;D for the year that you provided a part of that? Any warranty benefit and if there's step down any incentive comps that you were talking about for the corporation overall? I think probably from a sequential perspective George I'd highlight 2 things.
One is we are continuing to manage our discretionary spending so that's coming down.
The benefit from our incentive compensation adjustment would be a sequential benefit as well and sequentially our volume is up and that also provides margin tailwind.
So those will be the 3 major contributors.
Could you just quantify the ballpark say the decline in R&amp;D and the incentive comp benefit or just ratio it according to the -- or do I just ratio it according to the sales of the sectors? Well I would say that the company-funded R&amp;D is just a couple of million dollars.
The incentive compensation is probably in the range of about $10 million sequentially.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky of Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Clay in the past you've spoken about what you viewed to be the long-term growth rate of the business jet market.
I'm just wondering if you could update us with your current thoughts given the last couple of years and the way things have played out? I'm still bullish on double-digit growth in the long-term.
I think what we're experiencing now is a very unusually slow recovery as compared against any previous cyclical recovery where we have had now what would be almost 3 years of negative or no growth in that market.
And there is inevitably pent-up demand that occurs during that period of time that will be satiated at some point.
I think the causals for the relatively slow recovery are all around us and it's called the global economy.
And it's the same reason capital spending and a variety of industries is much lower than any of us would have expected at this time and why this industry is being impacted.
I still believe that the fundamental drivers of business aviation are in place.
I think the long-term growth prospects of business aviation especially in developing markets is going to be very good.
It's just that we're working our way through a period where people aren't spending much money on capital improvements much less transportation capital improvements.
And so I don't know what to say as to what the shape of the global economy is going to be over the next 2 to 3 years.
You guys could call that as well as I can.
But I can tell you once we get some economic improvement I think you'll see a direct and proportional improvement in business aviation.
And my hope and that's what it is at this point in time is that that hits at or before the time when we get this big inflow of market share gains that should start kicking in in 2014 as we begin to deliver those litany of new airplanes which are always better sellers than the existing fleet that will be coming out over the next 4 5 years.
So I mean I think it's going to be a great growth story for this company and others in that business.
But we've got to work our way through the economy before we get there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a follow-up on the fiscal '13 comments you've spoken in the past about trying to generate double-digit earnings per share growth.
Given all of the moving pieces is that still a legitimate goal for investors to expect at this point given what you know today about fiscal '13? I believe that -- well judge us by this year Jason.
We're going to be basically flat in sales and up double-digits in EPS.
And I have not given up on that goal.
And I would say this the revenue that we're able to generate is somewhat in my control but largely out of it.
I can't control bankruptcies.
I can't control European recoveries.
I can't control defense spending or sequestration and I've just got to take what I get there.
But the thing I can control is my spending and my rates of profitability and my efficiency in the company and my returns on invested capital.
And ultimately I have some ability to lever and control my earnings per share.
And we're going to be focused like a laser beam on doing that.
So yes I do believe to answer your question that is a reasonable goal and we will be working very diligently over the course of the next couple of months preceding guidance to try to deliver on that goal.
Our next question comes from Sam Perlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just looking at your guidance and the revisions you've now got revenues and margins I guess down to a single point and yet there's still $0.10 kind of swing for just this fourth quarter so can you just kind of talk about what might move you from either $4.40 or $4.50 in that range or are you much more comfortable I guess at one part of that? I would say this I mean we've selected a single point estimate for margins and for sales but there is variability around that.
So I would tell you that those are the 2 things that are most likely to swing our earnings per share to the lower end or the top end of that range would be where we fall relative to those single data points.
If we tightened it it'd make your job too easy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Of course.
And then just separately Patrick can you just -- where did you end the quarter in terms of the preproduction engineering within the inventory? Hold on just one second I'm not -- Steve's looking that up.
We were forecasting about a $130 million growth year-over-year and I would say we're still on track for that growth.
What the total balance is is coming here shortly.
We ended up in about $534 million of preproduction engineering for the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just -- I mean does that growth stay at that same pace into next year or does it moderate for next year? When we provide guidance we'll let you know but I would suspect there's still going to be a fair amount of spending on preproduction engineering next year as we continue on programs like the A350 and the CSeries.
Our next question comes from Rod Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question for you Clay.
You mentioned the possibility of sequestration in your prepared remarks how do you prepare the company to deal with that uncertainty given all the uncertainty around does it happen doesn't happen.
I mean as a leader how do you think about that? Well we talk about it a lot.
The way we're going to deal with it Ron is we're going to prepare scenarios as best as we can as to what the impact would be if there was sequestration knowing we're almost certainly going to be wrong.
But there is some reasonable expectation we can put around and across the board instantaneous reduction in spending and how that might flow to us so we're going to take the best swag we can at it.
The other difficulty is there's only so much you can do to prepare in fact a lot of that you don't want to do to prepare because again I think we're all discounting the fact that it's going to happen but there is some possibility that it will.
So given that you don't want to do anything stupid beforehand anticipating it's going to happen and then it doesn't and then you put yourself in a spot given the probability.
But that said I think it will mostly be reactive and preparing ourselves to react as quickly as possible should that become the law of the land or state law of the land I should say and then we'll react as quickly as we can accordingly.
The unfortunate part is the biggest disruption is going to be on people and what the potential impact could be to employment.
And all I can do is be honest with our people that that's a possibility that we hope won't come to fruition but if it does we're going to have to move quickly and get the people who have to take those actions ready to do so and then support and work with the people that might be impacted as best we can.
It's a horrible thing to consider but we may have to do it so we'll man up and do it.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 things.
One first on Hawker how do you manage what you have to deal with there Clay? It looks like you probably took reserves for about half of your exposure? And then I have a follow-up.
As it relates to reserves we took about -- roughly about a $5 million reserve against Hawker.
And last quarter we disclosed a rate of about a $30 million receivables so the exposure is far greater than twice $5 million.
And with that said Howard we are full well expecting that whatever they do whether they sell the company or come out of bankruptcy and continue to operate that the balance of that receivable will be in assumed contracts because they certainly will not be able to produce airplanes unless they continue to accept our equipment.
And so as they work their way through either the sell or the bankruptcy process we think that the ultimate conclusion will be that they'll assume those contracts.
Now we're also saying that as they work their way through that process it's unlikely they'll make that determination before the end of our fiscal year and that's why we've lowered a good portion of our cash flow guidance because those receivables are going to be very difficult to get in this fiscal year.
So I think there's some of those things we have to work out but we have a reasonably good expectation that they'll assume the contract except for those we wrote off.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right I understand.
I mean the reality is if they don't then there's a different negotiation that goes forward.
Yes right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then the second thing is could you talk a little bit about where you are in the military radio market? I mean especially in the army world it's kind of been tilted upside down and you're still in the hunt for a number of things? Yes.
I mean first thing we're really pleased with the growth we experienced this quarter as we got the pig through the pipeline there and a lot of the programs that were dragging us down went through and it's where our traditional strengths are data links some of the networking comm business.
We're very hopeful that the Defense Acquisition Board which is expected to meet later this week will approve the Low Rate Initial Production of the JTRS HMS program.
And if it does then that will provide at least one of the surviving in fact I would say that and this [ph] the only 2 surviving JTRS components will be moving forward.
And so that is specifically addressed at the army market and the applications that will have which we believe could be a nice growth engine for us if that DAB LRIP is approved and we move forward there.
So that's probably in military communications one of the big growth drivers we have in addition to the data links and some of the international software-defined radios that we're already working on.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So that's one of -- I mean it sort of sounds like that's a bright spot Clay and maybe it's a little bit better than you might have thought? I mean it does offset some of the other issues is that fair? Well yes.
In the Government business we're looking for any bright spots we can.
And if you look at our business in total and you look at the 4 portfolios without question Avionics and Communication represent the majority of the core and what we believe are going to be nice stable required elements of someone's defense structure both home and abroad in the future.
And those will be the strengths of our company that we build around that I believe in the long term will serve us and the share owners very well yes.
Our last question comes from Michael Ciarmoli of Keybanc Capital Market.
Research Division</strong> Clay maybe just a point of clarification.
On the aftermarket on commercial transport side did you say you're expecting that to trend up into the high single-digits in the fourth quarter? And if so I mean typically I think of maybe the summer flying season as a lot of utilization maybe some slow aftermarket what's giving you the confidence and visibility there? I did say that we expect the Air Transport segment or the aftermarket to trend up in the fourth quarter.
And I think that's a function of the line of sight we see into a lot of the discretionary aftermarket.
The thing that really hit us hard this quarter I'll reiterate is that discretionary piece that is remarkably lumpy and if I said it once I said it a thousand times don't judge us on one quarter making a trend in that retrofit market because it comes and goes as programs start and stop as airlines decide to buy or not buy and it's just not a linear activity.
We have regionally good visibility because we actually talk to these customers about what they're going to buy or not buy and that's what gives us some confidence we're going to see a relatively more normalized growth in the air transport aftermarket.
Now I did say just for perfect clarity that we're probably going to see continued weakness in the biz jet aftermarket as a result of those systemic global economic trends there.
So that's likely not to be quite as robust that's probably going to be maybe low single-digits.
But you combine the 2 and we should return to a reasonably good aftermarket growth in the fourth quarter.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
I want to thank everybody for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes Rockwell Collins Third Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins' Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Bonnie and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of the webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
As we conclude our fiscal year 2012 I believe it will be remembered as one of the most unpredictable in our history as a public company.
Headwinds for the year included the delay of some domestic and international orders defense program cuts and a bankruptcy at one of our key business jet customers.
All of which were beyond our control and which in aggregate brought our revenue forecasts down about 4% when compared to our original guidance.
However as we work through that challenging market environment we took actions to react quickly and manage the things within our control.
These actions and our focus on execution resulted in full year earnings per share within the original guidance range excluding the onetime charges taken this fourth quarter.
I'd like to have seen a better market environment.
It should not mask the great work of our people who responded to deliver higher rates of profitability and preserve future growth opportunities.
Now nowhere is this more evident than in our Commercial Systems fourth quarter results that were strong across the board.
Total revenue was up 9%.
And if you exclude the impact of wide-body in-flight entertainment which we no longer invest in the core business would be up 13%.
OEM revenue grew 15% led by 26% growth in air transport and that's after absorbing the headwind created by the reduction in output due to the Hawker Beechcraft bankruptcy.
In the commercial aftermarket revenue increased 12% driven by cockpit and cabin upgrades across both business segments.
It's interesting that in the year of unpredictability this is the one we got right.
We suggested in our third quarter that flat results in this area would return to growth in Q4 which is exactly what happened.
We expect continued revenue growth in the aftermarket as we go into 2013 driven primarily by new product introductions that enhance aircraft efficiency and early equipage of TCAS and data link mandate.
I think you can also see the diligent work of our people in Government Systems as well despite results that were weaker this year and this quarter than we originally projected.
Looking back over this past year accurately forecasting revenue in this sector was extraordinarily difficult especially considering the realities of congressional gridlock continued Pentagon re-prioritization and the uncertainty created by the pending impacts of sequestration.
Revenue for Government Systems was down 10% in the quarter resulting from several anticipated declines including E-6 DAGR JTRS Ground Mobile Radio and other surface-based programs.
However what did not happen as expected was the conversion of about $75 million in growth programs that due to order delays customer requests or changing priorities were slipped out of the year.
Let me give you some color around 2 of the largest programs that impacted the majority of this unexpected reduction in Q4.
We'd expected the Defense Acquisition Board review for the JTRS Handheld Manpack and Small Form Factor radio to take place on July 26 resulting in an approval of the Low Rate Initial Production order and product deliveries beginning in our fourth quarter.
However due to a request for more testing this review was delayed to October where as you know the program go-ahead was approved.
The other issue resulted from a European customer for a ground-based software-defined radio that has requested some enhanced capabilities to that radio which they funded.
So we agreed to their request to curtail shipments until next calendar year to incorporate the additional functionality.
And while unfortunate these kind of developments reflect the uncertainties that's seen in over abundance within the defense markets at this time.
So in total company revenue declined modestly in the fourth quarter but we were able to achieve a 260 basis points expansion in operating margins by containing cost and focusing on operational efficiency.
We saw much of the same results for the full year as the balance of our business continued to shift toward Commercial Systems which represents about 45% of total company revenue today and is moving toward parity in FY '13.
Now looking ahead to 2013 we provided our initial guidance about a month ago and it remains unchanged.
Market conditions impacting our guidance will be directionally the same with good growth in commercial offset by continued weakness in government.
However as you know we have factored in our estimate of the sequestration impact on U.S.
Defense budgets which I think many of you feel will not happen.
Well I hope you're right and that sanity will somehow be restored in Washington.
Nevertheless even if sequestration is delayed and replaced by a long-term continuing resolution that effectively kicks the can I expect that the potential impacts from the continuing resolution and an ongoing overhang of sequestration at a later date could be similar to the current sequester scenario.
So knowing that we cannot control this outcome we are preparing for all scenarios and taking actions early this time.
For example we've announced significant headcount reductions and the plan to reorganize our European operations with some of those resources that redistributed into other international growth markets.
We are also consolidating some U.S.
facilities and heightening our focus on bringing commercially-based solutions to the military like our Pro Line Fusion-based KC-390 flight deck in Brazil and another recently announced Pro Line Fusion position on Agusta's 609 helicopter.
We believe these actions will not only help us address the challenges we face this year but also provide enhanced leverage to capitalize on longer-term growth.
So with the silvering results in FY '12 and the prospects I've outlined for this year it's fair to ask how I feel about that longer-term for Rockwell Collins.
Well let me say that I have never felt more optimistic nor been able to see more clearly those opportunities that lie ahead in FY '14 and beyond.
And here is why.
Commercial Systems which will be the primary growth driver sits on the cusp of a raft of market share gains that begin to roll out and accelerate in FY '14 and beyond.
They include 787 Airbus 350 CSeries Japanese MRJ Chinese ARJ21 Brazilian Embraer 450 and 500 Bombardier's Global 7000 and 8000 Lear 85 and several we have yet to disclose.
And if that's not enough I can tell you that we were selected for one of the commercial programs referenced in our guidance release although I'm not yet at liberty to disclose the customer or other details at this time.
As for Government Systems nothing goes down forever.
And at some point we'll get past this sequestration circus reach a rational funding level and the bleeding will stop.
While it is very difficult to accurately predict that market right now improvement in 2014 or 2015 is not unreasonable.
By that time we will have a solid core business run very efficiently with more international content and a number of surviving development programs transitioning to production to supplement our strong legacy portfolio.
This includes Tanker Program software-defined radios network communication next-generation GPS navigation cockpit upgrades to aging fixed and rotary wing fleets and forward air control targeting systems.
These are the reasons I look forward to this company's future.
Stay tuned for us to further quantify the future impact of our growth opportunities in the coming months.
So with that let me turn the call over to Patrick for additional detail.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
Let's get started by first reviewing our results for the total company that are shown on Slides 3 and 4.
Total company sales for the quarter came in at $1.27 billion a 2% decrease from last year.
Income from continuing operations decreased 4% while earnings per share from continuing operations increased 4%.
Earnings per share increased even as net income declined due to the benefit of our share repurchases.
Income and earnings per share from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2012 included a $0.26 or $37 million after-tax restructuring and net asset impairment charge.
About half the charge is related to severance costs while the remainder of the charge primarily related to the write-off of impaired accounts receivable.
We expect to realize an annual benefit of about $75 million from the restructuring actions a portion of that benefit being realized in FY '13.
Now if I exclude the $0.26 restructuring and asset impairment charges from 2012 and the $0.11 restructuring charge recorded in 2011 for each quarter's results fourth quarter earnings per share would have increased by 17%.
Turning to Slides 5 and 6 we have the fourth quarter results for Commercial Systems which reported sales of $565 million up 9% from last year.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $39 million or 15% to $307 million driven by increased Boeing 787 sales higher production rates at Boeing and Airbus and increased product deliveries to Bombardier and Cessna.
These increases were partially offset by lower deliveries to Hawker Beechcraft.
Aftermarket revenue grew 12% to $239 million driven by increased retrofit sales to both air transport and business jet customers as well as increased service and support revenue.
Commercial Systems' operating earnings increased to $122 million or 21.6% of sales compared to operating earnings of $101 million or 19.5% of sales in the fourth quarter of last year.
The increase in operating earnings and margins was primarily due to higher sales and lower employee-related costs.
On Slide 7 Government Systems revenue declined 10% to $701 million.
Avionics sales decreased $20 million or 5% due to the completion of certain rotary wing and unmanned aerial system programs and lower development sales as the E6 Program transitions to production.
We did see an increase in tanker revenue this quarter from the KC-135 545 and KC-46 programs.
Communication products sales declined $12 million or 6% driven by the wind down in the JTRS GMR development program.
Surface Solutions sales decreased 40% principally driven by our previous decision to discontinue investment in public safety vehicle systems and the completion of certain surface-based development programs.
Finally Navigation Products sales were down 9% to $73 million driven by fewer deliveries of our GPS receivers.
Slide 8 shows Government Systems' fourth quarter operating earnings which were $175 million or 25% of sales compared to $170 million or 21.8% last year.
The improved operating performance was primarily due to lower discretionary spending as we completed a number of significant company-funded product developments and lower employee-related costs.
These benefits were partially offset by the lower sales volume.
On Slide 9 we have our full year total company financial results for sales EPS from continuing operations income from continuing operations and operating cash flow.
In 2012 sales decreased by 2% as the headwinds in Government Systems were mostly offset by the growth in Commercial Systems.
Our year-to-date operating cash flow of $534 million is lower than last year due to increased payments from employee incentive compensation and higher income tax payments.
Our cash flow for the quarter came in short of expectations driven by revenue delays in Government Systems and the timing of collections on the last few days of the fiscal year.
Moving to Slide 10 we show the status of our capital structure.
As of the end of the fourth quarter we had $779 million in long-term debt outstanding compared to $528 million at the end of fiscal 2011.
We do believe our debt to total capital ratio of 38% in combination with our investment-grade credit ratings provides us the necessary access to liquidity in a cost-effective manner.
If you turn to Slide 11 we provide details related to the updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of 2012.
During the year we repurchased 13.3 million shares of stock at an average cost of $54.41 per share and reduced outstanding shares by 7%.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to 76 million shares or $3.7 billion return to share owners through maintaining an active share repurchase program and we've reduced our outstanding share count by 23%.
Currently our available authorization is $481 million.
Now on to our final slide Slide 12 where we provide the details of our fiscal 2013 financial guidance which is unchanged from where we originally provided the last month.
We expect revenue of $4.6 billion to $4.7 billion with Commercial Systems increasing 7% next year although that growth is not expected to be linear.
In the first quarter headwinds from the lack of Hawker jet production and a negative 787 spares comparable will most likely offset growth in the rest of the commercial business.
However after a flat first quarter growth should accelerate across the year as the headwinds from Hawker abate and the 787 spares transition from a headwind to a tailwind.
In 2012 most of our 787 spares were delivered early in the year.
While deliveries this year we expect will be in the back half.
We expect regulatory mandates increased retrofits and higher OEM production rates to drive increasing growth across the year for Commercial Systems.
In Government Systems we forecast revenue to decline 10% with about half resulting from the impacts of sequestration.
Even though sequestration goes into affect partway through the year we anticipate revenue will be down about 10% each quarter.
Early in the year we will see reductions resulting from the completion of some development programs as they transition to production.
Later in the year the headwind from these programs will moderate.
But then the impacts from the sequestration begin to impact our revenue.
At the total company level we anticipate first quarter revenue will be down mid-single digits.
The revenue decline should then moderate the remainder of the year as commercial growth almost offsets the government reductions across the remainder of the year.
Additionally most of the benefit realized from our restructuring actions in 2013 will likely affect the back half of our fiscal year.
However full year operating margin should maintain at about 21% in Government Systems with Commercial Systems expanding by 200 basis points.
These increases coupled with continued share repurchase program should result in earnings per share in the range of $4.30 to $4.50.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions] Bonnie we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about this $15 million decrease in the company-funded R&amp;D in government? Is that disinvestment on public safety or other spending and really how long can you sustain this $20 million a quarter kind of run rate for company-funded R&amp;D? Well first let me say Sam we don't expect that kind of a rate decline to continue into next year.
I think that was a year-over-year comparable.
That's very explainable by 3 things.
First of all the public safety investment which you rightly cited which was going strong at the end of last year which we suspended as you recall at the beginning of this year and stopped investing in it so that was a part of it.
And then there were 2 development programs of products that we've completed one for a Generation 5 ARC-210 which we had invested a lot of our own money in to evolve that under commercial practices.
And the second was a new micro product for our GPS chip.
That is a very small GPS driver introduction which also was being developed last year which we had completed.
So both of those were completions of internal development.
And there was as you know not a lot of investment to replace it for future programs because of the direction of the -- of that market.
Now if I were looking at the relative discretionary flow of Government Systems over FY '13 it will be basically flat from where we ended in FY '12.
So what we've done is we've sized our R&amp;D down aggressively in '12 and according to what the developments we were doing and now we believe we can sustain that through next year.
Your next question comes from Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> If we assume that you're keeping government R&amp;D flat next year it would imply that the investment in commercial is actually ramping up very significantly.
Could you talk about that for a second? I sure will be glad to.
If you look at it -- first thing if you look at a year where our overall corporate sales are actually declining slightly and you look at all-in R&amp;D and by that I mean company discretionary still significant amounts of customer funding from the government although that's declining and then R&amp;D that we're deferring under our balance sheet that if you add all that together our R&amp;D will be increasing 9% in FY '13.
And the relative split is mainly as a result of the customer funding decline in Government Systems it will be going down around I'd say 8% to 10%.
And the government -- and the commercial funding all-in will be increasing somewhere between 25% and 30%.
And so we are fishing where the fish are we are funding these growth initiatives I talked about in my opening remarks and we're sizing our government to where it should be with this market.
I would also mention that for our company a great deal of the sales we anticipate in the government market will be coming from many of these commercial developments such as Pro Line Fusion that we'll be cross marketing.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one more if I could it's related.
It doesn't seem like R&amp;D lower R&amp;D was a quarter-on-quarter benefit for margins in the Government Systems business.
Was there any type of reversal of accrued comp? And if not what really drove that 25% margin? You're right company-funded R&amp;D wasn't a significant driver.
It was roughly flat from third quarter to fourth quarter.
There was a compensation adjustment in the fourth quarter as sales and cash flow came down from our expectations.
So yes probably the biggest driver sequentially on the Government Systems side would have been -- I'll call it all-in employee-related costs lower headcount and the incentive compensation adjustment.
And Yair that's why if you think about normalizing it for '13 what we're saying is we believe we can hold those government operating margins at around the 21% level not at this concluding 25% level that you've seen here in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So last quarter I think you said that higher incentive comp would be about a $30 million to $40 million headwind next year.
Should we think about it as being a little bit higher now? No actually it's about the same.
We set our incentive compensation at a 75% payout under this sequestration scenario and we were a little bit under 50% for the year this year.
So I would say -- I'd say that $30 million headwind is still about right.
Your next question comes from Myles Walton with the Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> To go off of the Government side the Government Systems side so you fell a little short on the sales forecast for the fourth quarter and looking at the 10% decline level you're looking at for '13 it looks like it's putting you kind of at the low end just as the starting point of the sales range given the 7% growth in commercial.
And so that's fine.
I just want to make sure that's right and accurate and under a sequestration scenario assumption.
And then tied to that Clay I think I just want to understand more broadly I think you said even under the kind of continuing resolution stopgap measure it might look like a sequestration.
So are we kind of fair to assume that the 10% is kind of a baseline growth rate almost no matter what happens? As it relates to the guidance for the year what I would say is that given all of the uncertainties I think we're operating within that range.
I wouldn't take the mathematics as being an absolute law.
I would say we're still pointing towards the middle of the range.
And Myles to your second question we size it based on sequestration.
If sequestration doesn't happen nobody knows what is going to happen.
And so if there's a CR through the full year that's going to have some impact hardly know if this is exactly sequestration but it will have some.
If they kick the can only 6 months we get the privilege of going through the whole sequestration drama in this fiscal year period.
The point we're trying to make here is something bad is going to happen out there and we think we've accommodated it here but I wouldn't run to the other side of the boat and say "Well sequestration doesn't happen now we're back to a full appropriations bill and it's life as once we knew it." I think this year is going to be very turbulent.
My point is we're planning for it we are structuring our company to do it.
If all of a sudden peace breaks out and everything is rosy and we got a grand bargain we're more than ready and that means we've been conservative.
Research Division</strong> One quick follow up if I could on cash.
So it sounded like the cash missed the 2012 number because of the timing of payments which -- or revenue which I would assume would slip into '13 which brings to a question of '13.
I know you have the preproduction headwind but it looks like incentive comps and nice tailwinds kind of offsetting that.
So can you walk through maybe Patrick is there any other cash taxes or other things that are disproportionally negatively affecting pension contributions anything like that affecting '13 cash? No I would say first of all we've gotten off to a gangbusters October because we collected about $40 million of cash on the first day of our fiscal year.
So that is probably a bit of a tailwind.
In terms of headwind I think you've identified the ones that I would identify which is the deferred engineering that we talked about in our guidance.
Pensions year-over-year are about flat and actually incentive compensation will provide a little bit of a tailwind.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to continue down the cash flow path.
Just looking at this big picture guys you converted something like 65% of income after the charge into cash flow this year.
It was 80% last year you guys historically have been 100% or more given the comp situation and I know you're up to a good start this year and you have the capitalized R&amp;D.
But even besides that it just seems like this continues to slip.
Patrick any other high-level thoughts you can put around this? And if we're ever going to see a recovery from here or something else is changing besides just the capitalized R&amp;D? I think the biggest change we've seen over the course of the last few years is the capitalized R&amp;D.
And when I think about the value of the investment in that R&amp;D when you think about the investment next year it's going into 4 programs.
One is one we can't talk about but then there's the A350 there's the CSeries there's the Bombardier Global 7000 and 8000.
And these all represent market share gains and significant investments for the company and for the company's future.
So I think it's cash well spent but that's the -- to me that's the biggest difference between cash flow let's say 5 years ago and cash flow today.
Research Division</strong> And your guidance for capitalized R&amp;D for this coming year you won one of those programs but there's more than 1.
So how much of the cake is baked on the capitalized R&amp;D number for 2013 given that 1 win? I would tell you the cake is fully baked now.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Clay your forecast for next year I think is double-digit aftermarket growth overall.
Can you just help us give us some color there I guess more comfortable with that.
I think a component of that is related to these couple of mandates how much might come from that side versus just your normal sparing and service kind of stuff? Yes Dave I'll try to do that realizing the aftermarket is a wide-ranging group of things.
But I guess I would put it in just a few buckets.
The mandates that you mentioned are certainly one of them and they're beginning to lace in even though those mandates don't go in effect until 2015.
People that have to accommodate that are having to manage their fleets as they go through normal C and D checks which is logically the way they do this.
We've already been in discussion with those customers.
We already understand what their maintenance schedules are.
And we've begun to already have production discussions on when we're going to provide that material to them.
So we feel reasonably good about that kicking in as an increment.
The second thing that's going on actually is the I guess the benefit of a very slow recovery in the business aviation market.
Anytime that you're not building or buying new aircraft you do what you do with your house you paint it every once in a while you get maintenance on it.
And we're seeing not only that routine maintenance happen but we're seeing some very useful upgrades to both their cockpit and their cabin systems.
So we've seen a good move this past quarter and we expect it into next year for venue solutions for cabins and Pro Line 4 to Pro Line 21 upgrades and also glass cockpit upgrades for I'll say aging business jets.
And then the third thing are the continuation of I'll call it aircraft efficiency airspace modernization moves where we see GPS-aided landing coming in.
Heads-up guidance is selling very very well as we see the safety and the efficiency inputs to that.
Our synthetic vision systems are selling quite well.
And as we introduce more large-format displays people are seeing that as an efficiency mechanism as well.
So I'd say all of those many of those are new products that we're just getting into the market right now or being introduced are the things that will drive our aftermarket.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I might have missed this but did you address broadly the bookings the Government Systems' bookings environment in the fourth quarter if you saw actually a slowdown or a pick up out of your government customer and the pace of booking awards? I did not address that.
What I would say is we did not see any dramatic I would call institutional slowdown let's say as a result of sequestration.
What we saw and what is a far more impactful than the relative lethargy of booking orders is just the budgetary pressures causing programs to slip.
I think endemic of that is the discussion I had about JTRS HMS.
I mean it just took a longer time to get those kind of program gate approvals because there is not only more difficulty getting that through there is also somewhat of a risk aversion to doing that right now.
I think in this specific case we had some testing results that came back that were a little ambiguous and the government want to take one more look at that test and of course we passed with flying colors then.
So I think that's sort of delaying impetus.
If you look back over FY '12 I can look at about $110 million of revenue that were delayed out of the year compared to what we would have thought in our original guidance in the beginning and all of them were just programmatically -- programmatic inefficiencies where we just didn't get things done.
Some are more domestic orders some are more international orders like the Middle Eastern FireStorm order which by the way we have that order now for those of you that are following that.
But I think it's more of just the mood and the environment than there is anything that's end of the year.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just so I understand your commercial R&amp;D excluding deferred engineering how much is that going to be up in fiscal '13? In '13 if you look at just commercial discretionary R&amp;D it's up slightly low-single digits.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then what's the -- kind of I think you said that incentive comp is going to be basically $75 million something like that $75 million to $80 million that's the plan? Well roughly yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then -- so last year basically it was negligible in the second half.
As we do our modeling should we assume it's kind of equally spread as a percent of sales? I would spread it equally as a percentage of sales I think that is the way we book it.
Our next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Clay maybe just one on the government side.
This $75 million of opportunities or revenues that slid out of this quarter is it safe to say when you constructed the guidance and put that out a couple of weeks back that that was known? And I'm just thinking why wasn't that bumped up into the forecast or was that a known kind of issue already? I would say a majority of that was known.
For example the 2 that I cited that were the majority of it were both known when we put out the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a last one.
On the 787 is there any update there or have you guys thought about when sort of your OE shipments get back more in sync with Boeing's actual production plans? No update Mike from what I've already disclosed.
And that is that we're anticipating that that synchronization of our build-ahead inventory will occur in the second half of our year and some of that calendarization that Patrick talked about will be impacted by what we anticipate to be an accelerating production rate on 787 as we get to the back half.
So it's a kind of a front half-back half story where that's concerned.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Patrick I just want a little clarification on this sequential improvement in the Government Systems margins.
I mean it looks like from what we've got that maybe 80 basis points of the margin increase was due to sequentially $5 million lower R&amp;D.
And then if the incentive comp was similar in Q4 to Q3 where did you still pick up the other $15 million difference to give you the 25% margin? Well I'd tell you 2 things George.
First of all incentive comp I don't think was comparable sequentially.
It was a little bit lower in the fourth quarter.
Probably the biggest change sequentially in addition to that would be volume.
I mean even though we were off our expectation fourth quarter volume tends to be higher.
The other thing I'd say is if I look at the mix particularly after the orders that slipped out which we're largely low-margin of say development-related programs the mix was richer in the fourth quarter for our Government Systems revenue.
Okay.
So that -- what was it -- was incentive comp maybe like $5 million in the third quarter and 0 this quarter? No it was a mild benefit to the margin sequentially less than $5 million I think.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Clay you've been successful in taking the 787 cockpit to a couple of applications so far.
Is some of the thought that there's a broadening opportunity either in pieces or in parts for that product going forward? We believe that to be the case yes.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Clay at the front end of the call you talked about a few mandates I guess in the retrofit area.
How long do these last this opportunity or these various opportunities? And can you quantify that in the '13 guidance? And Patrick I'm wondering if you could parse out the $210 million just generally how it divides between the programs and when -- will we hear about that unannounced program next week? The mandates I think we talked about this in the past there are 2 specific mandates both driven by European airspace.
One is an upgrade to the collision avoidance system the TCAS they call it 7.1.
The other is a data link router Link 2000 is the name of it.
Both of these mandates are already in effect for forward fit airplanes but we really don't see that because that is a function that goes into new aircraft.
But their mandate is for retrofit in other words the existing fleet out there both of them by 2015.
So it will be an opportunity for us between now through 2015 as we move from the early adapters to usually the surge at the end for the late adapters.
It's typically the way these things go.
So I would say we have a good 3-year run on these specific mandates and I would prefer not to quantify it at this time right now Rob just because I don't want to do that.
Research Division</strong> But it's a rising number? It should be a rising number through that mandate period is the way it normally works.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we don't have a comp issue later? At least at this point in time we shouldn't have it as we look at '13 and '14.
And then it really depends on how it ramps into that how many people do it.
And as I look at the 210 of deferred I mentioned the 4 programs: the one we can't disclose the 350 the Bombardier Global and the CSeries.
If I look at those 4 programs they make up the majority of that spending.
And actually they're all probably about the same between $40 million and $50 million each.
Research Division</strong> And will we hear about that fourth one next week? I'm not going to give you a timeframe for that because obviously that's dictated by our customers and our discussion with them.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Quick one for Patrick.
I just wanted to ask you what the share repurchase assumption is in the fiscal '13 earnings guide? And then Clay I was -- separately I was wondering if you might be able to elaborate on the strategy and thought process behind the management changes that were announced last month.
As it relates to share repurchases we as you know no I don't typically disclose the amount of our share repurchases.
I can tell you that we've been pretty aggressive over the last couple of years and I don't see that changing.
Relative to your second question Noah as I've been meeting with a number of you all over the last year there seems to be an inordinate interest in our succession program here at Rockwell Collins.
I'm only suspicioning it's because of my age but it could be something else.
Anyway I think that is better known today with the selection of Kelly Ortberg to be our President.
Kelly comes with extraordinary experience I think most of you know him running both our commercial and government business and I would say running him through both difficult market conditions.
He's really proven himself there.
He's been with the company for 25 years he's part of our system he knows the people he knows the product he knows the customers.
And I think he's going to do a good job as our President managing through some of these tough issues we face over the next year or so not only ensuring that we execute the restructuring programs and all of the other operational things we have to do but also positioning us for these development opportunities that I cited going out in '14 and beyond.
So that's the reason we did it and that's who he is and like I said I think it suggests as I've always said that we have a robust succession planning program at this company and it's beginning to manifest itself.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes just a quick follow-up.
You mentioned that the $75 million government slip was in your guidance.
And yet we're looking for down 10% each quarter.
I mean I would think now that Manpack kind of is done GD is talking about "Gee we might see a little bit of a plus in the next quarter." You've now gotten the FireStorm order.
So isn't there any goodness? I mean did other things slip out of the year? So first thing Cai let me make clear what I said I said some of it was known not necessarily all of it was known.
So again I think the majority of that has been baked into that.
I have a couple of things that we're concerned about Cai.
First of all if it can happen this year it can happen next year too.
And so given the environment that I talked about here just the fact we've had some of that move into FY '13 doesn't mean that bad things aren't going to happen to good people as we go through this very uncertain period.
And so I think it's too early to start parsing either -- even a portion of that money is being incremental to the guidance or something that's happening.
Let me characterize next year for Government Systems that I think is useful.
If you look at the growth programs that we have the JTRS the FireStorm the Tanker Program.
They basically offset what the programs we've been talking about for sometime that have been a drag the DAGR downer some SATCOM programs that we're focused on the OPTEMPO Eurofighter is coming down a number of those cancellations like Brigade Combat Team public safety still will flow into a part of the comparability in that year.
Those kind of offset each other.
The biggest impact for the downer in Government Systems next year that is not sequestration-related are program transitions from research and development into production.
These are the E-6 E-2 simulators the CRIIS program FAB-T CH 47 are all timed to go through a sort of end of development testing and then we're waiting on decisions for go-aheads for production in the future.
As I said before Cai the decisions about those productions are very ambiguous now in the Pentagon and so there's a lot of uncertainty as to when those decisions are going to be made.
Although we hope they are made in FY '13.
Regardless when they get made we will see I think some growth engines be able to come in when we look at that '14 and beyond period.
That's one of the reasons I have a little more confidence.
If we can get through any additional impacts of sequestration or continuing resolution we can actually see a very stable government business beyond '13.
But the uncertainty Cai is the reason that you can't go in and say 20 goes in here 30 goes in here and therefore there's an opportunity at this point.
Just too much uncertainty.
LLC Research Division</strong> No I certainly agree with that.
I guess the question was really focused on we have these 2 good things happen.
We've had Manpack happen we've had the FireStorm order.
Presumably they would help you in the first quarter we don't have sequestration in the first quarter.
I agree with the full year but just that down 10% in the first quarter.
Well the reason that it doesn't help us as much as you think is because originally we would have thought we would have been into the second quarter of production there and therefore you would've seen an increase in production and the ramp rate.
What we've done is we've taken that ramp up and just slid it to the right if you will as opposed to all of a sudden there's a glut of production coming off the table and that's what we have -- already have factored in there.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky of Citi.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just focus in on business jets and the outlook for fiscal '13 and get a sense from you on what is baked into your expectations for the year with regard to the overall market the business jet market itself? We've had a couple of business jets OEs that have reported results since you issued your guidance and I wanted to get a sense of whether that changes your mind at all about the outlook for fiscal '13 and how much cushion you've offered up yourself on the outlook for business jets as we move in to your next fiscal year? Well if you look -- it depends on how you look at the market.
If you look at it for just business jets only we're looking at a basically flat market in '13.
We think there will be some mix in rates but generally flat.
If you add in turbos then we think there is actually going to be growth because things like the King Airs even Hawker Beechcraft are actually selling quite well and they're very economical and there's a lot of places of demand there.
So if you kind of look at the range of results in business you're looking at very low to mid single-digit growth there.
And if you look at the market dynamics they're about the same in '13 as they were in '12.
You're seeing more strength in backlog at the high-end you're seeing not much movement at the low end and I think that's what the OEMs have been talking about here.
And what everyone's waiting for is the end of uncertainty and an improving global market.
Once we get that I feel strongly that this pent-up demand and the improvement in this market will return.
But it's the same thing you're hearing whether it's business jets whether it's construction equipment whether it's farm equipment there's just a lot of uncertainty out there and I think that's stifling the relative rates of growth and we factored about that into our next year or this year I should say.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard of RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] Hawker Beechcraft I was wondering if you could let us know if there's anything else left outstanding from Hawker Beechcraft on the balance sheet and whether you have any expectations for Hawker moving into next year? We do have a small receivable remaining from Hawker which represents the amount we expect to collect from them.
So that there is a little bit of -- there's still a little bit of exposure of Hawker Beechcraft out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> And whether you baked any revenues from them into the FY '13? Oh yes.
We've got -- I'm sorry we've got -- we do have revenues related to the King Airline no jets at all.
And if you remember Rob that's one of those negative comparables at the first quarter or 2 which is we did have jet production in there in '12 before they went bankrupt.
We are not counting on any jet production in '13 and that's what's going to kind of dampen down the relative commercial growth in that sector in the '13 time period.
LLC Research Division</strong> And Clay as a follow-up you've talked in the past about maybe some of your strategic option whether there were any parts of your portfolio that maybe you might think of divesting or running down.
Are there any changes to that? Nothing that we can discuss right now Rob.
It certainly -- that's something that continues to be on our mind.
We are doing careful analysis of that.
We are also very mindful of timing where that's concerned.
You look around the horizon you're not seeing a lot of government defense transactions right now because of that uncertainty and the ability to define value during this period of time but it's certainly something we continue to think about.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Clay just a one quick question.
On one of your peer's calls there was some commentary suggesting that the CR we find ourselves in is particularly onerous in its terms and that there's a lack of really any exceptions on new starts and that could cause some problems.
Would you agree with that assessment? And is that really what's behind your earlier commentary behind even without sequestration we could see a tough environment? Carter I guess I have not looked closely enough at the CR to be able to confirm that's my understanding of it.
I'm taking it more from our past experience with extended CRs.
If you remember in FY '11 we had a particularly difficult time for the 6 months CR because of the ability once that CR had cleared for them to convert that inefficiency into orders.
And it's really from that experience that I'm suggesting that the natural dampening effect that any CR has relative to what you have to fund to what new starts could happen the fact some of those have to seek waivers to do it just puts a great inefficiency in the system.
So it's more from my experience than any of my particular knowledge of this CR.
Our next question comes from Ken Herbert of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clay I wanted to ask you just at a higher level it's clear that you're putting some more resources into the commercial markets you faced a little more competition at the lower end you seemed to be certainly continuing to take share at the higher end and you are increasingly confident in your commentary around sort of the opportunities here and how you see the landscape evolving over the next few years.
As you look at this opportunity not so much for 2013 but -- because that sounds like there are some good news ahead.
But 2013 '14 '15 where do you see the company in the commercial business on the original equipment side as this competitive landscape continues to evolve? And really the bigger picture opportunity for you in this marketplace? Well I hope I at least answered that in the main in my formal comments.
If I look ahead at the deliveries new deliveries that are going to happen between 2014 let's say 2018 we know what all those are.
Those are already spoken for both in the positive and in the negative speaking specifically of Cessna on the downside.
And we've accommodated those in that sort of picture I tried to paint earlier in my optimism of the future.
In my view the opportunities and the gains far outweigh far outweigh any losses that are perceived by the 1 OEM where we've been sort of addressing for some time.
And those are what's already there.
Now there will be future programs that come along the way but they will unlikely deliver in that timeframe I just painted from '14 to '18.
And so they will be beyond that window because it takes typically 4 to 5 years to develop these systems and get them into the market.
And so this investment that you see that I think Patrick talked very well about is not going into speculative ventures.
It's going into real programs that are underdeveloped now that will hit the market during that time period and which will provide great revenue growth and market share gains to this company.
Now specifically to your answer as I alluded to we hope in the coming months to give you a little more granularity around that so you can kind of see the quantification of that.
I'm not prepared to do that today but that's coming to a theater near you.
Operator I think we have time for one more question.
And that question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clay I just wanted to get a clarification from you on the Hawker situation.
Is Hawker actually building any jets right now and you're just assuming 0.
And then are they in fact building King Airs right now? They are in fact building King Airs right now and at least to the best of my knowledge meaning I'm not shipping them any product they are building no jets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And that -- and so that's how you're assuming for this fiscal '13? That is correct.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thanks Bonnie.
We plan to file our Form 10-K in a few weeks so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
Thank you for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introduction I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Bonnie and good morning everyone.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones;  and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning.
Everyone who does business with the U.S.
Department of Defense has over the last year been waiting for the resolution to one of the worst pieces of legislation that I have seen in my adult life sequestration.
And most of you on this call who follow this sector were hoping if not planning for the issue to be resolved as part of the fiscal cliff negotiations as 2012 drew to a close.
Well we all know now that didn't happen.
And as a result the shadow that has hung over defense markets persists and if anything has gotten darker.
Fortunately we anticipated this in our initial guidance last September and factored in the impact of sequestration as we believed it could be.
As a result we've already taken numerous actions and are well prepared for whatever happens in the next round of Congressional negotiations.
Now uncertainly like -- uncertainty like this which has persisted over the past 4 years and been a prominent part of the markets we serve both defense and commercial makes it challenging to both forecast performance and execute to those forecasts so it should come as no surprise that I'm extremely pleased with the performance in our first fiscal quarter.
Despite an expected decline in revenue we exceeded our internal expectations for EPS operating margins and cash flow.
We were able to do this largely because of the laser focus of our people on the things we can control even as the uncertainty of the market swirls around us.
These controllable items include our operating costs capital deployment investments and customer relationships.
For example our operating margins improved year-over-year by 20 basis points and almost 100 basis points above our guidance targets as a result of early restructuring benefits and an exemplary job of our shared services controlling costs.
We generated $63 million of positive cash flow in the first quarter again ahead of our expectations.
The strong start for cash generation was aided by lower incentive payouts in the period which was expected.
However we received an equivalent benefit from better working capital management through improvements in areas such as production inventory and advanced customer payments.
And with our strong balance sheet and ability to generate predictable cash flow we once again used those financial assets to return value to shareholders by repurchasing 4% of our stock in the quarter.
This brings the share reduction we've achieved just over the past 15 months to 11% as we've taken advantage of what we believe to be a relatively undervalued stock price.
Finally our investments in new products and technology along with the strong performance we've demonstrated delivering those products to our customers has yielded additional success winning programs that will add to our long-term growth prospects.
In the commercial market we announced a landmark win at Boeing to provide the display systems for their new 737 MAX.
And we broadened our international reach by winning a program to install Pro Line Fusion in the cockpit of the AgustaWestland's 609 tilt rotor aircraft.
We were also able to land 2 significant U.S.
government awards that will fuel growth over the next several years.
The Air Force awarded us the first production lot of the E-6B aircraft upgrade program and we also received orders for Low Rate Initial Production of the JTRS HMS Manpack program.
HMS production ramp-up is underway and we've already begun delivery of full function radios to the Army.
These programs add to the formidable existing list of development programs that we have won and have in various stages of development.
As I look out beyond this year of transition in 2013 I expect continued strength in commercial and greater visibility across our defense market.
While I can't predict the outcome I do expect the domestic defense budget outlook to eventually stabilize creating a much more manageable environment.
Increased clarity in those defense markets coupled with growth in our commercial markets from new platforms like the CSeries the A350 the Embraer Legacy 500 and Bombardier's Lear 85 all of which are expected to enter service next year should set us up well for accelerating growth over the next several years.
So with a plan accommodating many of the identified risk in the balance of this year I am increasingly confident in our ability to achieve continued performance improvements across our business and meet or exceed the financial targets we've set for the year.
So with that let me hand the call over to Patrick.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides and summarize our results for the first quarter of 2013.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company first quarter sales EPS net income and operating cash flow.
Total company sales for the quarter decreased $32 million or 3% compared to last year's sales while net income increased 2%.
The increase in earnings was primarily driven by a lower effective tax rate which went down from 33% to 30% driven by the implementation of some tax strategies in the U.K.
that allowed us to recognize some previously reserved net operating losses.
While net income increased by 2% earnings per share grew by 9% driven by our continued focus on returning capital to shareowners through share repurchases.
In the first quarter we deployed $333 million reducing the share cap by 4%.
Looking next to our operating cash flow for the first quarter we generated $63 million of cash compared to a use of $64 million last year.
The increased cash generation resulted from improved working capital management as well as lower employee incentive compensation payments as we traditionally pay the prior year's incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of the following year.
Turning to Slide 4.
We have the first quarter results of Commercial Systems which achieved revenue of $516 million in 2013 up 1% from $511 million in 2012.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $17 million or 6% to $282 million primarily resulting from increased deliveries for the Bombardier Global and Boeing 787 aircraft.
Meanwhile aftermarket sales decreased $14 million to $207 million due to the large sales of spares last year related to air transport aircraft deliveries special mission military aircraft programs and Chinese regional jets which did not recur this year.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased 5% to $106 million in 2013 with operating margins expanding from 19.8% to 20.5%.
The increase in operating earnings and margin was primarily due to lower company-funded R&amp;D expense as we shifted our development resources to preproduction engineering programs such as the Boeing 737 MAX and Bombardier CSeries and Global 7000/8000 programs.
Moving on to Slide 5.
Government Systems revenue decreased by 6% to $546 million in 2013 driven by the completion of development programs some of which are expected to transition to production and the anticipated reduction in GPS product sales.
These headwinds were partially offset by increased sales in areas such as tanker aircraft avionics network communications and targeting systems.
Looking specifically at our product categories.
Sales of Avionics decreased $9 million or 3% as headwinds from development programs transition into production were partially offset by increased sales on tanker aircraft programs.
Communication Products sales declined $11 million or 8% primarily due to fewer deliveries of legacy airborne and satellite communication products partially offset by increased deliveries of ground networking radios.
Surface Solutions sales decreased $10 million or 17% from the impact of completing multiple development programs partially offset by increased international sales of FireStorm targeting systems.
Finally sales of Navigation Products declined by $7 million or 13% resulting from fewer deliveries of our handheld GPS receivers.
Government Systems' first quarter operating earnings decreased $10 million to $107 million and operating margin of 19.6% compared to 20.1% last year.
The decreased operating earnings and margins resulted from lower sales volume which was partially offset by lower company-funded research and development as well as some benefit from cost reduction actions taken over the past year.
Moving to Slide 6.
We show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the first quarter compared to the end of last year.
In addition to $573 million of long-term debt we had $549 million of short-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.
The increase in short-term debt came from the issuance of commercial paper to fund share repurchases as well as the reclassification of long-term debt that is due within the next 12 months.
Now we ended the quarter with a debt-to-total capital ratio of 51% which is higher than we just have historically operated.
We have traditionally used debt-to-total capital as a metric to assess our financial health both internally and with investors.
We believe this metric is a bit misleading as equity is abnormally reduced by a large pension adjustment thus overinflating the percentage.
If you normalize debt to total capital for the pension-related adjustment as we do for our lenders the metric would be about 30%.
I believe a better metric of the health of our financial structure is debt to EBITDA as it's not affected by this adjustment equity.
At the end of 2012 we had debt to EBITDA of approximately 0.7.
With the issuance of commercial paper in the first quarter we're currently about 1.1.
I feel that this level of debt still provides us the necessary cost effective access to fund our capital needs.
I expect this ratio to come down over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally comes later in the year and we'll pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
Slide 7 provides us an update of the total R&amp;D investment through the first quarter of the year.
Total spend remained consistent at 21.4% of sales for the first quarter.
Customer and company-funded R&amp;D expense declined as we completed certain development programs and redirected the resources to preproduction engineering programs predominantly in the commercial markets.
Looking to the full year we still expect to spend approximately $1 billion in total R&amp;D.
The updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of the first quarter is detailed on Slide 8.
During the first quarter we repurchased 6 million shares at an average cost of $55.22 per share reducing the outstanding share cap by 4% since the beginning of the year and reducing it by 7% compared to the same period last year.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 82 million shares or $4 billion returned to shareowners through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was $147 million.
Now on to our final slide Slide 9 where we provide the details of our fiscal year 2013 financial guidance.
The American Taxpayers Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law in early January resulting in the retroactive application and extension of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit through December 31 2013.
The effect of this credit will reduce our full year tax rate from 32% to about 27%.
The change creates about a 30% improvement to the earnings per share of which about half of that benefit will go to fund increased employee incentive compensation costs.
That will result in a net $0.15 increase to earnings per share guidance resulting in a full year target range between $4.45 and $4.65 per share.
Now the second quarter tax rate will include 5 quarters of benefit related to the final 3 years of our fiscal year '12 and the first 2 years of our -- or first 2 quarters of our fiscal year '13.
As a result I expect the second quarter tax rate to be about 18% and to recognize about 75% of the $0.15 full year EPS increase in Q2.
Said a different way we should see lower taxes in the second quarter than we previously expected but also a corresponding increase to incentive compensation costs which will result in a reduction to our operating margins.
Just as a reminder our second quarter tax rate last year was also abnormally low at 24% due to the favorable adjustment stemming from the completion of prior year tax audits.
Excluding the impact of this tax change all other aspects of our financial guidance remain unchanged.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions].
Operator we're ready to open the line.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A quick one on the incentive comp and tax comment you just made Patrick.
Can you tell me exactly how the structure of that works? So the -- is the incentive comp payment based on EPS targets? Because the -- you said -- I think you said $0.15 of the $0.30 benefit was going to get eaten up by higher incentive comp payments that sounded like what you said.
So can you clarify how -- what the structure of those payments are? Sure let me just kind of review the bedding.
When we set up the incentive compensation program for this year we actually set it up at 75% of the target.
Usually we set it at about 100%.
And that target's based upon really 4 factors: sales EPS cash flow and I'll say a board evaluation of our strategic goals.
The 2 factors that this R&amp;D tax credit impacts positively are EPS and cash flow.
And although we haven't changed our cash flow guidance we've provided for that improvement in that $0.15.
So what you're seeing is actually an increase of our incentive compensation payment from that 75% level closer to actually to the more normal 100% and that'll be booked predominantly in our second quarter.
But let me add to that Carter also when we structured those 4 components we weight each one of them and the heaviest weighting that we put on each of those factors is predominantly EPS and cash flow consistent with our view of the turbulence in the market that these are things we can more likely control and that our people control through their actions as opposed to the sales volume which obviously is not factored into this.
So that's why you get an apparent disproportionate share with this tax windfall that we've received.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of USB (sic) [UBS].
Research Division</strong> Clay in Government Systems the business -- when you look back 2 3 years ago it looks like the business is down about 25% or so when you look at top line and you look at the operating income side.
Can you give us a sense on the cost-cutting side how much you've taken headcount down in that business and what else you think you can do in that business to take the cost structure down if we see additional pressure even beyond what we expect of sequestration? David I don't think I have at my command right now the exact number of personnel changes over that period of time so I can't give you that number.
But what I can say that the major point -- components of reductions have been personnel.
They've also been reductions of research and development which we've been very open about as we've not sort of needed that.
And then -- and I guess the third case is some restructuring actions that get to at least a contribution to the part of the reductions which are some facility reductions and some consolidations that we're doing most notably in our European operations a lot of which goes into Government Systems.
So I'd say those are the 3 big levers that we've used in the past.
And we've been able to both quickly and I'd say proportionately reduce that in Government Systems and more effectively in Government Systems because a great deal of those revenues are nonrecurring engineering or development costs that goes into the customer-funded R&amp;D line which is also booked as you know as sales and some profitability.
So if you look back over the last 2 years I think your number in reduction is about right but a great deal of that has been the elimination of development programs.
I think we've had 8 or 9 programs canceled the majority of which of those have been development programs and therefore you're able to both anticipate the stoppage by the government and then make your headcount adjustments attendant to that.
Second part of your question is how much more of that can we do.
I think we've got a good bit more of that on the personnel side if we have to.
A lot of that has already been anticipated in the restructuring action that we took in the fourth quarter of last year.
And if in fact what comes out of the Congressional negotiation is even deeper than what was accommodated in sequestration we certainly show an ability to make that move and we'll do what we have to do to balance that business to the realities of the world.
Our next question comes from Robert Spingarn of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Okay Patrick on the margin you did better in the margin in the quarter at slightly over 20% than we were anticipating based on comments that you all made about a month or so into the quarter.
So can you talk about -- a little bit about what improved in December and why we don't see higher margins overall in the guidance? Does this not continue? Is it just front-ended a little bit? And -- or is it just explained by the puts and takes with the incentive comp? And then lastly the further cadence on the buyback.
Sure.
As it relates to the margin and how -- why it's exceeded our expectations in the quarter I'd say it was really just the actions that were taken with our shared services controlling spending as well as I would say slightly a quicker benefit from the restructuring actions we took at the end of the fourth quarter.
I think both of those things surprised us to the positive and resulted in increased margin for the quarter.
Now do those benefits carry forward for the full year? Yes.
But you pointed out that margins are also going to be suppressed by that incremental incentive compensation particularly in the second quarter.
So on balance we're sticking to our margin guidance.
But those 2 are going to be -- are going to offset each other and actually I'd say the incentive compensation will be a little bit higher.
As it relates to share repurchases we obviously did a lot of share repurchases in the first quarter.
We viewed our stock as being attractively priced.
Obviously the cost of debt is very low.
We're going to continue doing share repurchases throughout the year probably not at the same pace you saw in the first quarter but we'll still be in the market through all 4 quarters of the year.
Research Division</strong> Is it fair to say that the balance between the quarters will be different then than last year? I would say I really don't want to comment on our quarterly plans.
Our next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Clay just to maybe follow up on the Government Systems and how you've effectively planned for sequestration I guess we're hearing more of that under sort of the recent measures to try and cut cost that some of the IDIQ contracts indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity could really be on the chopping block since there's no termination liability.
Can you sort of quantify your exposure there and maybe how you've sort of calibrated that into your plans this year? I mean are you more exposed to some of those contracts? No we're not.
We do have some.
A lot of those IDIQs are related to some of the OPTEMPO OCO work that's still being done in Afghanistan.
I'd say our total OCO exposure right now is less than $50 million out of the whole portfolio so I don't think that's a big one.
The other area I think a lot of people are looking at is service and support contracts which have the same kind of criteria around them that you suggest there.
Again we have some exposure there but it's fairly modest I would say in those areas.
But again what we try to do in the accommodation for sequestration is apply what the legislation says to the reductions that we think will be made to unobligated balances should the law go into effect.
And again we think that should give us enough headroom regardless to how they figure that out.
About the only thing that would happen that could maybe significantly change our estimates is if all of a sudden Congress decides to cut the same amount but give specific program leeway and the government goes in and maybe starts canceling whole programs that may be inordinately affecting us.
I think that's a lot to do in the time we have left and again we still have -- in fact we've specified it we have $120 million of sequestration impact baked into the back half of our year.
So we think we've planned as prudently as you can in this environment.
And I think we're ready for whatever is in front of us.
The difficulty is we're right where we were 4 5 months ago as nobody in the world knows how it's going to end but we think we're prepared.
And aren't we glad we made this assumption and took this action and we'll see how it goes.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> Clay I thought we'd kick off looking at maybe the aerospace aftermarket.
You mentioned you're increasingly confident about your ability to meet the financial expectations for the year.
I was wondering if your confidence about this shorter cycle end market had perhaps improved over the last 3 months.
What I would say is the aftermarket is rolling out about like we thought it would.
If you remember we pretty much forecasted this quarter that we would see some weakness specifically relative to spare part comparables almost across both markets.
And that really is the predominant causal for why our aftermarket is down in the first quarter.
I would just for historical reference relate to everybody what happened last year.
Last year we had 3 strong quarters and 1 weak quarter if you remember it was third quarter where everybody kind of got all crazy because we thought that the music had stopped.
The fact of the matter is this aftermarket is very lumpy.
There are a lot of different things that move in there that are short-term focused.
We have some visibility but others we just have to see how it goes.
And I would just advise everybody not to judge the aftermarket on the basis of 1 quarter.
And as we look forward for the rest of the year we see 3 big drivers.
We see the mandates that are coming in that we've talked about mostly European-based for collision avoidance and datalink requirements that we've already talked to our customers about doing.
We see improving comparables on spares as we had a weak second half and expect strength in that going forward.
And then we have a number of retrofits that we're already marketing out there.
We have a lot of this new technology that's going to go into especially business aviation because as that market stays weak we're seeing customers want to upgrade their existing aircraft.
So I wouldn't say we have perfect visibility but we have pretty good visibility of what's going to drive the aftermarket for the balance of the year and we still see it proceeding according to as we had planned it.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as a quick follow-up you mentioned business jet there.
Has there been any change in your view on in-production business jets versus what you said before? I would say not a lot of change Rob.
We went into the year not expecting any big recovery or any significant improvement and that's exactly how I see it today.
I don't think that there's a big order buildup.
I'd say still that the high end of the market is much stronger than the low end.
If I were to make any editorial comment of something that I may be watching more closely is that again the low end of the business jet market.
It has always been the most fragile.
I think it stays the most fragile.
And so we'll be watching waiting and working with our customers to see how those order fills are going but right now there's nothing that is encouraging.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Clay you had the inter-quarter presentation that went into some detail on some of your thoughts longer term.
I wanted to ask you specifically where you were talking about government growing again by 2015 and then that growth rate accelerating beyond that.
The basic question is just sort of how do you know or how do you have that confidence? What is it about the business that allows you to overcome all of the uncertainty about future defense spending how difficult this business has been to predict that allows you to have the confidence to sort of put out those reasonably official longer-term targets on government? Well Noah what I've learned is predicting the future is very difficult and -- but that's what you expect us to do and that's what our job is.
So I would say that's not a Pollyanna pie-in-the-sky gee I wish it was like that.
I think that's based on historical reference and some of our personal thinking that combines 2 things.
Number one what we believe the direction will be once this grand drama finally gets over with and we all hope it'll get over with in the government of deciding what defense spending is going to be going into the future.
And is there uncertainty to that? There's extraordinary uncertainty into that.
But my view is based on nothing goes down forever.
Actually if sequestration were to go into effect that would give me greater confidence that those projections I put out will happen because that means we'll not scab off we'll let it bleed a little while and then we'll reset it and go ahead.
If there's some accommodation of that that could bring into question whether we get quite back to flat by 2015 but I don't think I'm going to be off by 5% or 6%.
It's going to be in that neighborhood.
But the other side of the equation are the core programs that we have and the core business that we're planning to have.
It's kind of like a race to the bottom to reset.
We're sizing and shaping our defense business to be able to come out of this with the kind of core capabilities that we believe are right for the market at that time and we stated those very clearly.
If you're not buying new airplanes you're going to fix the one you have.
And our Avionics portfolio which is more than half of our business is going to be well positioned with a world of new commercial technologies to apply to governments that don't have much money and that applies here in the United States and beyond.
We know that as we soon as we get the DAGR comparable over in GPS products we're going to have a Modernized User Equipment.
The satellites are already up in the air and they're going to have to start cutting that in.
Our communication portfolio is inherently strong with legacy.
And hopefully if HMS stays alive we'll be good for that.
And then we're still focusing on international.
Our international business in defense grew 6% last year.
And so all those things that we control that we're positioning for is the other side of equation that gives me some confidence that we'll get back to that level.
Now could it be wrong? Yes.
And are we all worried about the way it's going to go? Sure.
But I don't think that is an unreasonable assumption based on what core products we have the programs we're on and what we hope the evolution of Congressional funding is going to be.
So we still stand by that.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful color.
Just on the international portion of that specifically are there larger programs you can identify yet to be won that we can watch for? Or is it a lot of smaller to medium-sized items going into that forecast? I'd say they're both of them.
I think things like aircraft retrofits and communication sales of our Talon or ARC-210 and other HF products are in the small -- we're working them a point at a time.
But there are larger programs that we are chasing in these developing markets.
Brazil has got some very large investment programs in both communication and homeland defense they're working on.
The Middle East there are a number of large programs we're looking at.
India and some of the areas that they're looking at could potentially be large in the longer term.
So I'd say it's a mix of both.
Our next question comes from Richard Safran of Buckingham Research.
Clay on your comments on international defense sales I wanted to know if this pursuit is going to drive you to pursue more joint ventures.
Maybe if you can assuming you are you could discuss how that might impact your business there.
I think almost certainly it will require us to partner and even up to define joint ventures with partner companies just because of the way business is done in some of these countries.
And so we've been working very hard internally to improve our capabilities in that area because that's not a big way of doing business in the United States but it is a much bigger way to do it over there.
For example we have a joint venture with Talus on a software-defined radio that we're jointly developing and taking across the world.
We've announced a joint venture work that we're doing with Tata in India.
We're realizing that partnerships in the Middle East are a must to make sure that there is value that's brought into that.
So I think yes that's the way of doing business internationally.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky of Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Clay you've guided to Government Systems being down 10% for the year.
You just did negative 6%.
Can you explain to us what has to happen in order for you to actually hit down 10%? Well yes sequestration has to happen.
Remember that's part of that.
We suggested that roughly half of the decline is going to be a result to -- of either sequestration or a full year continuing resolution.
I'd say either one of those would get us probably pretty close to that level.
As I said before Jason hell we don't know what's going to happen.
We're all over the place on this thing.
But something is going to happen isn't it? And one of those things is going to impact us in the balance of the year.
It's very difficult to predict on a program-by-program basis like we normally like to plan.
So we think whatever that is that's going to go that way.
I think a couple of pieces of color here.
One of the reasons we weren't down more in the first quarter honestly is because our Government Systems business did a grand job of going out there and trying to secure as many orders as they could before the music stops.
And so I think there was both a willingness on the Department of Defense to entertain those discussions and our folks worked real hard to bring some of those orders in that would normally have come in subsequent quarters.
So remember we're still waiting and seeing there.
I think you're going to begin to see some of the impacts that we predicted in things like transition programs.
Two of the biggest avionics programs we have which are the E-6 and the E-2 development programs will really be hit hard the next couple of quarters as we go through that transition from development into production.
I would expect as an example our largest business Avionics to be down 8% to 10% next quarter as a result of just those 2 programs almost alone.
So again we have some visibility I'd say half of it.
The other half we're planning for and that's what we factored into that overall 10% down.
Believe me I hope I'm wrong.
I hope it's better than that.
But at this point in time it would be imprudent to plan or suggest that to be the case.
Our next question comes from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Business jet part of the business -- the existing Hawker Beechcraft fleet is a pretty important source of aftermarket demand for you I imagine.
I'm just wondering to what extent the bankruptcy has changed customers' appetite for continuing to invest and upgrade that orphan brand and how we should think about the value of that fleet for you guys at this point.
I think it's probably too early to tell Yair the long-term impact of that.
What I would tell you is I think where there maybe some risks there there's also opportunity and you've seen that in the company Nextant taking a lot of the old Hawker 200 fleet and retrofitting it with our Pro Line cockpits and being very successful reselling that very good residual airplane with new electronics and updating it.
And so that's a very interesting example of how that has taken place.
If you look at the King Airs there's just a world of King Airs that are already out there and that's a terrific airplane for a lot of missions that are being used and you can't imagine the number of electronic and avionics configurations that exist out there that can improve the ability to fly that airplane but still retain the residual value in it.
And the Beechcraft company as they come out is going to make a special push to make sure those retrofits and upgrades are available and we're going to be helping them do that.
And so on the face of it if it's a good airplane and it's existing out there in the fleet somebody's going to take care of it and we believe there's going to be retrofit opportunities as a result.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> One quick question is on Slide 4 you talk about the year-over-year on Commercial Systems and you highlight the increased 787 production rates.
Have you come off the 4 per month? Or is that just a year ago you were at a lower rate? The latter.
Remember the -- remember we dropped down actually to 2 per month toward the latter part of last year or actually the beginning of last year and then we raised it up to the current 4 per month and we're still at 4 per month.
So it's just a comparable.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then somewhat related is in the aftermarket I know that you had a lot of 787 initial provisioning a year ago.
If you were to x out initial provisioning from both years what would the commercial aftermarket growth rate look like? Is it positive is it negative? Can you talk a little bit about that? Are you talking about for the quarter or for the year? LLC Research Division</strong> For the quarter.
I would say that it would probably be negative.
Because there were -- Sam what I would say is although there were a lot of 787 spares in that there were a lot of other airplanes that were being introduced from both Airbus and Boeing that also generate frankly a higher volume of spares just for the numbers that went out there.
So that's sort of an across-the-board spares comparable.
And the other thing I'd mention is there was quite a bit of sparing on the business jet side related to some Chinese regional aircraft as well as some special missions aircraft and that would also be a negative.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then if I can ask one last question.
$147 million of remaining authorization given the pace where you were in the first quarter is that something that you think can get you through the remainder of the year? Or is that something we should expect to see an extension of that? I would expect to see an extension at some point during the year.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
Clay just wanted to pursue the aftermarket a little bit more.
I mean to effectively get to your double-digit growth for the year I mean the rest of the year has got to average 15% or something.
I mean so are you comfortable that that's going to happen? That's what I said.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up Patrick.
On the cash flow question that Sam asked would you expect the same rate of buyback to occur the rest of the year or you're going to buy back less as you want the debt number to come down somewhat? Well as I indicated I think what you're going to see is you're going to see continued buybacks but probably not at the pace that we saw in the first quarter.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Clay you termed to the win on the 737 MAX display as a landmark win.
I was wondering if you could give us any details you're willing to share on the business case how big the ship set value is perhaps on then -- if not for the displays then maybe for the aircraft overall at this point.
Any -- it looks like you're going to be capitalizing the R&amp;D.
Is this a new product or is this an extension of an existing product line? Any other thoughts you have on that win? Well as is our custom Joe we don't give ship set values on that.
But we have disclosed and I'll remind you that we talked about just the initial win with the service and support over the life of at least the numbers of airplanes that we suggest in there.
I think we planned on about 4 500 airplanes.
We may be off a little bit on that actually may be light according to Boeing's projections.
But we're looking at about a $1.6 billion value for this program over its life with the service included.
Now I think the significance of the airplane you have to look at that display system which takes our market share on standard equipment SFE equipment from 15 1-5 percent to about 50 5-0 percent of the share that we'll have on that standard equipment and add to that our existing win rates on the airline selectable equipment or the BFE.
And when you combine those together we're looking at a value of this airplane of about $3.5 billion to $4 billion.
And so that makes it at or slightly above what the value we see over time of the 787.
And when you combine those 2 together that's pretty formidable.
Then you add the 350 to that that's a great legacy that these programs are going to leave for this company for years to come.
Relative to the investments you're correct.
We have put that into the deferred engineering amount.
Most of what we're doing here is reapplication not invention of the technology that will be going onto there.
That obviously is derived from the 787 extended on the KC-46 and the FedEx modification program of the 767s.
So it's yet one more product extension we've got into that initial development so it won't be near as high as the initial development but it'll be significant enough that we'll have a little work to do.
Research Division</strong> And those market share numbers that you gave the 15% to the 50% on the SFE that's the way you look at your share of the addressable market on that platform? That's correct.
Our next question comes from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Probably following in that line on R&amp;D is it still expected to be up on an expense basis in fiscal '13? Obviously trending a little light here in the first quarter.
And then secondly on preproduction I think you had previously talked about peaking kind of in fiscal '14 given the wins.
Does that push it out? Well on the first question if we look at the expense line it's going to be I'd say roughly flat for the year.
It may be down just a very few million dollars but just flattish to modestly down.
The big increase in R&amp;D this year is coming out of the deferred which is going from roughly $120 million up to about $200 million.
That's the big upper in terms of the way we account for that.
We'll probably see a little bit of decline from customer funded I'd say maybe $15 million to $20 million of decline there just as the -- mainly from military U.S.
DOD funding reductions.
But overall for the year as we've said before while our revenues are going to be down for the year our total R&amp;D is measured by all 3 of those components so it's actually going to be up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I read though for the rest of the year it looks like it's flat to slightly up for the remaining 3 quarters.
And then preproduction for fiscal '14 does that still peak? Or because of the wins you're looking that extending out a period of time? I'll let Pat...
I think you're going to continue to see the balance on the balance sheet grow for the next few years and then come down probably toward the end of our planning period which is 5 years.
But you're going to see it increasing at a decreasing rate.
So it'll begin to be a cash flow tailwind for us really starting next year.
Yes.
Depending on what peak you're talking about it is at least our belief that this year FY '13 will be the peak annual amount.
And as Pat said we'll see a declining amount of annual deferred added next year which is going to help us improve our cash flow.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But sorry just to clarify it won't be a tailwind to cash flow.
It'll still be a significant headwind to cash flow [indiscernible].
Well yes year-over-year it'll be a benefit.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Clay I can't ever recall seeing you talk about the A330 in your press release as being a big contributor to business.
Was there that and some other BFE wins that help the numbers? And could you sort of talk about some of your successes in the BFE market of late? Well I think that was probably just the mix this quarter.
We were citing it as a causal just because there was a favorable mix of customers that the A330 was delivered to.
And relative to successes we announced that GOL down in Brazil selected us so we had that one which is a new one in those area.
China Southern selected us this year and that wasn't A330.
So our commercial systems folks have just done an absolutely over-the-top job of maintaining strong customer relationships.
That's that component I talked about in our overview to continue our very high win rate of BFE.
And because they're typically one program at a time and a few airplanes at a time they may not be as incrementally noticeable as the 737 MAX but they sure are feeding the bulldog around here and I continue to be very pleased with the success we've had around the world on BFE.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment of Sterne Agee &amp; Leach.
Research Division</strong> Clay a lot of questions have been asked.
Can you talk a little bit about in particular I guess the Chinese market and the narrow-body? A lot of discussion about their intent to field HUDs for their narrow-bodies and whether that's kind of a potential opportunity for you in calendar 2013 or is this more '14? How do you see that developing? And any color you could give us that'd be great.
Well first I think it's much more of an opportunity beyond '13.
To me it's part of that opportunity beyond this transition year that we're going to get just because it's going to take a while for both the airlines themselves and the government that's defined this sort of HUD mandate to initiate it get it operable just some work to be done to sell it and to install them.
But in terms of an opportunity we stand by the fact that we think it's an exceptionally good opportunity now and I think that opportunity could even get better.
As you know we are the only HUD operable on all the Boeing airplanes the narrow-bodies.
We're not currently operable at Airbus and that's something we're working very hard to try to remedy and make sure that we get that opportunity in the future.
But we think the directive will probably go in place toward the latter -- I'd say mandate will be the latter part of this decade so it's going to take them a few years that they build toward that.
But over that I'd say the next 5 to 8 years we think it's going to be an excellent opportunity to expand our footprint our volume and improve revenue there.
Our next question comes from Ken Herbert of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up with a question on the aftermarket.
I can appreciate that the spares business would be pretty lumpy and you don't have necessarily great visibility there.
But can you comment on the backlog within the repair and overhaul side of that business? And what -- any trends you saw in the quarter and how the outlook looks specifically for that part of the aftermarket? Well the MRO part which is just slightly over half of our aftermarket piece it is remarkably predictable.
And typically it tracks pretty much toward flight hours flown.
I would say in this quarter it was down a little bit because flight hours were down.
However our projections and IATA's projections for the full year are traffic growth at around 5% and so we've laid in budgets that suggest that the basic service revenue is going to grow I'd say relatively consistent with that passenger growth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And just finally did you see any strengthening of that as you went through the fourth quarter? Or is that -- you typically don't see much volatility in that because of what you said the predictability and the correlation with flight hours? I'd say the latter.
It is a much more predicable component of the aftermarket compared to spares and retrofits.
And so I would say it operated according to its seasonal norms.
There is a little seasonality to it as they take airplanes in and out of service for these peak times.
But again we have very good parametric models that our folks have come up with that allow us to predict that fairly accurately.
Our next question comes from Carter Leake of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on how you're synced up on the 787 shipments? It's been a while since we've got an update.
How correlated are you to their production rates? We are running under their production rates right now.
As we said earlier we have stayed at 4 per month.
We are currently at 4 per month shipsets delivery.
And that synchronization we have always suggested is going to happen in the second half of the year.
We haven't gotten to the point right now where we -- or I can call it exactly.
But if I were sort of projecting where I think it's going to happen it's probably going to happen right around the beginning of our fourth quarter plus or minus maybe a month or so where we get the opportunity to accelerate.
Research Division</strong> And so is that synchronization in 4Q obviously that's in your estimates? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more is -- maybe you've answered this.
Is it possible that the large-format displays on the MAX is there any contemplation that that could be a retrofit option or is that not possible? It's very possible.
Research Division</strong> For a 73 -- so it is very possible.
Any color on that timing? Nothing right now but the fact that we have now secured this win on the MAX gives us the opportunity to start some planning not only ourselves but along with Boeing to be able to offer a product at some point in the future that would make that retrofit available.
And I think it's one of those things you got to get the baseline in play first.
So the first efforts are going to be putting it on the MAX.
But then very quickly making that operable in the aftermarket once people see the advantages of those large-format displays and the reliability improvements and the cost improvements and the ability to be more flexible in a NextGen-type air traffic environment I think over time is going to make that very attractive.
Research Division</strong> And the -- but the retrofit would definitely have -- it would come after the MAX is that right? Most probably.
Research Division</strong> It could not come before.
Okay.
Nothing's impossible but I think it's logical to assume that the market demand will follow after you get the initial equipment installed.
Our next question comes from Ronald Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Kristine Liwag calling in for Ron.
The last time Government Systems margins fell below 20% was in 2008.
So I was wondering how much of that margin contraction is attributed to the higher overhead because of lower sales versus pricing pressure from the customer? I'd say none of it is pricing pressure for the customer.
I think the contraction we saw this year is purely as a result of the volume reductions 6% volume reductions and the fact that the full impact of our restructuring actions have not yet been felt and we'll see that improve through the year.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And I guess another one for me.
So Garmin has been winning platforms in the light and business jet avionics market but your R&amp;D spend is declining Commercial Systems.
Are you still planning to compete in this segment of the market? Are you focusing on the large cabin and air transport wins like the 737 MAX you just did? Okay.
About everything you said except for Garmin winning some market share is wrong.
First of all our Commercial Systems R&amp;D is increasing dramatically if you include the deferred as well as the currently expensed.
Second thing we absolutely are going to continue to compete at all phases of the business jet market.
In fact I would contend we're the only avionics company that has positioned itself to do that.
And with our new Pro Line Fusion EDS the Embedded Display System we in fact have already had a competition and we won that competition head to head against Garmin.
So we're going to be there and I expect them to be there as well.
So if nothing else it will be a good fight.
Our last question comes from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Patrick you indicated that incentive comp would now be $100 million.
By my math the change from $75 million is about a $0.12 drag and yet the benefit of a 5-point drop in the tax rate is a $0.33 plus.
You only raised your guidance by $0.15.
What happened to the other $0.06? Is business -- are there really other things you have to overcome or is that just caution? Well what I would say is that I think you've overstated the benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit slightly and understated the benefit of the incentive compensation.
The way I look at it is it's about $0.30 -- if you want to get down to the penny it's about $0.32 impact of the R&amp;D tax credit offset by about $0.16 of incentive compensation when you factor in the cash flow impact and so we're talking about $0.16 versus $0.15.
LLC Research Division</strong> But it's like $25 million.
Well I didn't -- I think you may have misinterpreted.
I said we're getting to be around 100%.
I was -- we're getting to our payout to be around 100%.
So it's not exactly $25 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's more than $25 million is what you're saying? A little bit more yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And so you also mentioned there would be catch-up in the second quarter.
I assume the first quarter must have been $17 million $18 million since you do it ratably by as a percent of sales.
Help us understand a little bit better how you're going to -- are we going to have a full catch-ups in the second quarter? Yes the way we're going to account for it is if you think about the value of the R&amp;D tax credit it's 7 quarters of benefit 5 related to I'll say a cumulative catch-up through the second quarter.
So we're going to record 5/7 of the catch-up on the incentive compensation during that -- during the second quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually the question was on the incentive comp because you're going to 100%-plus is you get -- I assume the first quarter was at the lower of the $75 million run rate and so we really get a bigger step-up in the second quarter on the incentive comp.
Yes.
I'm sorry if I misspoke.
We're going to record 5/7 of the incentive compensation charge in the second quarter as well the catch-up.
LLC Research Division</strong> 5/7 of the catch-up? Okay.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> So the full year catch-up or just kind of true you up to where you would be for...
I would describe it as the full year catch-up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And just one last one.
Your wide-body IFE was up.
Why was it up? And what should we expect for the year? The second part you say expected to decline for the year and it was up because of a onetime sale of last time spare parts to one of our customers that's operating that IFE system.
So basically we gave them a onetime buy of spares that they'll need to operate the system until they take it off wing.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thank you Bonnie.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please review that document for additional disclosures.
I want to thank everybody for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins' Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Bonnie.
Good morning to all of you on the call.
With me this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected due to certain risks and uncertainties included but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll turn the call over to Clay Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
As you all may recall and when we established our 2013 guidance we made some assumptions that may have been perceived as questionable at the time like incorporating sequestration in our defense forecast and a lack of recovery for light and business jets in our commercial markets.
As I look at what happened through the first half of the year with only a few exceptions things played out pretty much as we thought they would.
So you can understand why I am pleased to report that for our second quarter in a row results are on track with our expectations.
Let's review some of the highlights.
Once again our balanced business proved beneficial as the headwinds in defense were partially offset by growth in Commercial Systems.
However through a continued focus on operating efficiency and returning capital to share owners we delivered a 7% increase in earnings per share and expanded our core operating margins by 100 basis points despite lower revenue.
Additionally our improved inventory performance along with lower compensation and tax payments contributed to an increase in operating cash flow of nearly 300%.
I believe these results demonstrate the financial management you've come to expect from Rockwell Collins even in dynamic market conditions.
In fact looking back over the first half of the year we were able to either anticipate accurately or where we did not compensate for some softness in the market to achieve these results.
I think that speaks to our focus on cutting costs early being watchful of headcount and driving operational efficiency through lean improvements.
These actions have delivered early operational benefits that should set us up for even more significant margin improvements in the second half.
Despite the uncertainties related to U.S.
defense budgets and low-end business jet market recovery over the balance of the year I remain confident we've accommodated them in our guidance.
And if circumstances go our way we may even have some opportunity to do a bit better.
We still anticipate second half revenue growth to improve compared to first half.
However based on these first half results we are forecasting a shift of about one point of growth between our 2 segments.
We now project Government Systems to be down approximately 9% while our Commercial Systems growth is expected to be 6%.
So let me describe the market dynamics that are driving those changes.
In defense particularly in the United States budgetary issues make it extremely difficult to forecast.
While we still lack full clarity into the U.S.
DoD's outlook we now have some visibility in the priorities with the President's fiscal year 2014 budget being released.
The request did provide some insight into areas that the administration has continued to support including avionics for tankers rotary wing fighters and transports.
We're also pleased to see JTRS funding for programs that we're involved with come in as expected along with a continued focus on GPS modernization and a higher quantity of JDAMs than we expected to replenish stocks used in Afghanistan.
As you recall we originally modeled $120 million in our original guidance last September as a projected impact from sequestration.
To date there have been no material impacts from sequestration in our results and most importantly we've experienced no program cancellations.
The expected second half sequestration impacts will likely come in areas like service and support delays in order timing and reductions to short-cycle products.
We'll have to wait and see how things play out for the balance of the year but I still believe we have ample headroom in the $120 million projection to accommodate sequestration impacts that may come our way.
Meanwhile we've seen a few areas actually strengthen across our military business specifically in international markets.
Surface Solutions have stabilized sooner than we would have thought as the benefits of our portfolio-shaping actions and international growth opportunities are now expected to deliver incremental growth in this portfolio over the remainder of the year.
Additionally we continue to see increased demand for international tanker and transport avionics products and increased scope on those programs.
The combination of these conditions support our somewhat improved outlook for Government Systems.
In Commercial Systems we expect revenue in the second half of the year to grow 8% led by mid-teen sales growth in the aftermarket resulting from favorable comparables for spares increased cockpit and cabin retrofits and initial mandate-related sales.
However as a result of more modest aircraft utilization in the first half across our commercial businesses we're revising our full year aftermarket guidance down to mid to high single digits and our total Commercial Systems revenues growth forecasts down one point to 6%.
Except for this MRO aftermarket component our expectations for Commercial Systems remain unchanged.
In air transport OEM backlogs are still robust.
The resulting increase in demand for aircraft production combined with new aircraft entering into service makes this the most stable market segment we serve.
Similarly the business and regional OE market is playing out much as we expected with some growth of larger long-range aircraft and not much happening at the light end.
With the first half of the year behind us I feel pretty good that we have seen results in line with our expectations during a period of very high uncertainty.
Our teams' continued focus on taking swift action to address these things within our control drove improved operating profits and set us up for improvements in the second half of the year.
I remain confident we can meet or exceed our full year guidance which positions us well to exit this year of transition and enjoy expanded opportunities ahead.
So with that let me now turn the call over to Patrick.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the second quarter of 2013.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company's second quarter sales EPS net income and shares.
Total company sales for the quarter decreased $30 million or 3% compared to last year's sales while net income remained flat at $161 million.
As a result of our continued focus on returning capital to share owners earnings per share in the quarter increased $0.08 to $1.17 even with the flat net income as a result of a 7% decrease in average diluted shares compared to the second quarter last year.
Net income and earnings per share for both fiscal years included benefit from tax-related items that essentially offset.
This quarter we realized the retroactive reinstatement of the Federal Research and Development Tax Credit of about $31 million.
But after you net out the incremental compensation cost of $12 million after tax this net benefit is offset by the absence of a favorable tax adjustment we recorded in the second quarter of last year relating to the completion of certain IRS tax audits.
Turning to Slide 4 we have the second quarter results of Commercial Systems which achieved revenue of $553 million in 2013 up 4% from $533 million in 2012.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $23 million or 8% to $312 million primarily from increased deliveries for the Boeing 787 and 737 and the Bombardier and Global -- Bombardier Global and Challenger aircraft.
Aftermarket sales increased $3 million to $223 million due to higher business jet retrofits partially offset by lower transport air transport service and support and the absence of spare sales that occurred last year as aircraft entered into service.
Commercial Systems' operating earnings increased 4% to $117 million in 2013 with operating margins expanding 20 basis points to 21.2%.
The increase in operating earnings and margin was primarily due to the higher sales volume.
Lower company-funded R&amp;D expense was offset by an increase in compensation costs that resulted from the Federal R&amp;D Tax Credit extension.
Moving on to Slide 5.
Government Systems revenue decreased by 8% to $578 million in 2013 driven by the completion of development programs lower fighter jet-related sales and the reduction in GPS product sales.
These headwinds were partially offset by increased sales in areas such as network communications and international sales.
Looking specifically at our product categories sales of Avionics decreased as expected $41 million or 11% driven by headwinds from development program's transition to production including the E-6 and lower sales for Eurofighter and helmet-mounted displays for fixed wing aircraft.
Communication Products declined $2 million or 1% primarily due to fewer deliveries of satellite communication products which was mostly offset by increased deliveries of JTRS Manpack radios.
Surface Solutions decreased $1 million or 2% as a result of completing multiple development programs almost entirely offset by increased international sales of FireStorm targeting systems.
Finally sales of Navigation Products declined by $6 million or 12% resulting from fewer deliveries of our handheld GPS receivers.
Government Systems' second quarter operating earnings decreased $16 million to $112 million resulting in operating margins of 19.4%.
The decrease in operating earnings resulted from lower sales volume the absence of a favorable warranty adjustment recorded in the prior year and higher employee-incentive compensation costs.
These headwinds were partially offset by lower company-funded research and development as well as the benefit from cost-reduction actions taken over the past year.
Looking next to Page 6 we show our year-to-date results for revenue net income earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Through the second quarter we generated $179 million of cash compared to $45 million last year.
The increased cash generation resulted from lower incentive compensation payments improved inventory performance and lower tax payments.
Moving to Slide 7.
We show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the second quarter compared to the end of last year.
In addition to $570 million long-term debt we had $588 million of short-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.
The increase in short-term debt came from the issuance of commercial paper to fund share repurchases as well as the reclassification of long-term debt that is due within the next 12 months.
We ended the quarter with a debt-to-total-capital ratio of 51% and debt-to-EBITDA of approximately 1.1.
I feel this level of debt still provides us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs and I expect it to come down over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally results later in the year and we pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
Slide 8 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the second quarter of the year.
Total spend remained consistent at 21.2% of sales.
Customer and company-funded R&amp;D expense declined as we completed certain development programs.
Meanwhile we increased our investment in preproduction engineering programs predominantly in the Commercial Systems business including the Boeing 737 MAX Bombardier CSeries and Airbus A350.
The updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of the second quarter is detailed on Slide 9.
During the second quarter we repurchased 1.4 million shares at an average cost of $59.72 per share and we have reduced the outstanding share count by 7% compared to the same period last year.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 84 million shares or $4.1 billion return to shareholders through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
During the quarter we announced an increase in our share repurchase authority of $500 million.
And as of the end of the quarter we have $564 million of total authorization remaining.
We expect this authorization to fund our repurchases for the rest of 2013 and into 2014.
Now under our final slide Slide 10 where we provided details of our fiscal year 2013 financial guidance.
As Clay outlined before we are holding our total sales guidance at $4.6 billion to $4.7 billion for the year but we now expect Commercial Systems to be up 6% and Government Systems to be down 9%.
Additionally we now expect total research and development investment to be at $950 million with most of the improvement coming in lower preproduction investments.
At the beginning of the year we've made certain assumptions regarding the successful capture and the approximate schedule of certain preproduction engineering programs.
As we have now updated and aligned our investment schedule for these programs we feel that the spend profile will increase at a slower pace and therefore have moved a portion of the capitalized cost forecast out of our fiscal year.
That guidance now reflects an expected increase in preproduction R&amp;D for 2013 of about $170 million.
All other aspects of our financial guidance remain unchanged.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Steve back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions] Bonnie we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert Spingarn of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on sequestration and you were one of the only companies to embed this in the guidance but what I wanted to ask you is given that that outlook is a little better or allowing for better Government Systems results and you're offsetting that a little bit on the Commercial side if sequestration comes to fruition it's possible that the full effect of it would be compressed into the back end of the government fiscal year which matches your fiscal year so might you not still see the full $120 million? That is possible.
We could see that Rob.
But the reason we -- I only adjusted the Government Systems one point is really because the first half of the year was a little stronger than we would have said.
Remember when we first gave guidance we thought that the average reduction in Government Systems sales would be about 10% a quarter and obviously we've done better than that in the first 2 quarters.
The back half of the year was loaded primarily with the sequestration impact that drove that back down as we're seeing lift from international programs and development programs that are actually picking up such as our Surface Solutions I mentioned earlier.
So the adjustment is just because of the first half results and we still are waiting to see what that back half guidance is.
So you are correct.
If we see the full $120 million impact we'll still be on our current guidance.
If we see less than that that's the improvement I alluded to that we possibly could see.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So a quick one.
You've said that R&amp;D is down $50 million but my number's about 3 -- $30 million of that is deferred engineering.
How much of the rest is company R&amp;D? And are you still looking -- because that was an offset to incentive comp are you still looking for $110 million of incentive comp for the year? What I would say Cai is that about $40 million of the $50 million drop is related to deferred engineering and the rest is a mix of company and customer funded.
And as for incentive compensation we really haven't changed our targeted payout this quarter because we haven't changed our guidance.
Our next question comes from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But anyhow to talk a little bit more about the R&amp;D programs could you sort of update us a little bit on the progress you've been making whether it's with the MAX or with the 78 and some of the other programs? Well most of them are on pretty much on track.
Where the 78 is concerned obviously we're pretty much through all the R&amp;D there.
We're in the production and we only expect just a sustaining level as Boeing looks to add any capability there.
We're obviously just beginning on the MAX on the other side of that.
So we're just doing some scope and scaling of that.
And some of the realignment that Patrick referred to was just -- now that we've gotten them into it and gotten the contract we've paced that with what the contract is saying versus what our expectation was at the beginning of the year when we did not have yet that contract.
So that is beginning to ramp up and we'll see much more activity over the balance of this year and into next year as we get that going.
And then everything else is in I'll say a sort of a transitory state of completion.
Obviously a lot of focus right now is on the A350 as we bring that close to first flight also a focus on the CSeries as we approach the first flight of that aircraft.
Both of those will happen as you know this summer.
And so a lot of activity to get the -- to help them get to the finish line there.
And then I guess the other thing that we're involved in that's a big-time effort around here is the completion of Pro Line Fusion EDS.
The fusion itself as you know has already been certified and we're working on applications of about 15 platforms there.
But we are working toward completing the EDS version Embedded Display System version of that which should be certified here within the next year.
So all those are going well.
And our folks especially in Commercial Systems where most of this discretionary development is going are doing just a superb job of managing those R&amp;D programs on cost and schedule.
Our next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> If I can looking at the second half growth forecast for aftermarket MRO Americas Conference was this week.
It seemed like there was a more -- definitely more cautious tone regarding growth expectations for the back half of the year.
The influx of surplus parts really creating some complications.
I mean can you sort of just discuss the puts and takes around your aftermarket growth? I mean right off the bat here it feels like it might be a little bit aggressive.
Yes Michael.
I'm actually glad you asked that question because I'd like to put some light on that in light of a lot of those reports I read from the conference last week which I think were all very good.
First let me remind you maybe every company likes to think I think we're different relative to the aftermarket compared to many other aerospace companies.
Most of the ones let's say the big engine companies which obviously where the big bucks are and many of you follow make an awful lot of their aftermarket revenue from just MRO.
And so as brake fix happens and as warranties run out that's the big component of theirs.
That's only half of our aftermarket.
The other half of our aftermarket are spares and retrofits and retrofits are the ones that make us unique because as electronic products go we have the opportunity because of the technology movement and the software base of so much of our product to insert these retrofits over the life of our product and usually at a much faster pace.
So when we break it down into I'll say the 3 segments there of MRO and then the 2 components of the rest of it spares and retrofit here's what we're seeing.
We are seeing -- we are definitely seeing that cautious tone or that slowdown that you alluded to in MRO.
And in fact the adjustment we made to Commercial Systems this year is specifically related into that.
In the first half we just did not see the traffic volume and the amount of returns to our service centers that we would have expected in a market that typically was going to -- expected to grow 5% in traffic.
And that's -- and the reason we didn't see it is it didn't grow 5% in worldwide traffic.
It was out about 1 point to 4%.
Moreover the other impact we saw is that the airlines are being far more efficient and load factors has -- have gone up about 1 to 2 points.
And that's another higher utilization of the existing airplanes and a lower overall utilization of time on the airplane.
And so as a result of that we were basically flat in the first half and we're only expecting very low single-digit growth of MRO in the second half.
So our expectations have been diminished and that's what affected our guidance change.
Now let's look at the other side.
In that case we're seeing a lot of benefit in the second half.
So on the second half as we mentioned you can compute about roughly mid-double-digit growth around 15% growth in the aftermarket all of which is really going to come in spares and retrofits.
And if you think about that growth rate it's really going to come in 3 sections.
The first and the largest group or about half of that growth is going to come from retrofits and upgrades.
And we have a cockpit retrofit that's just about to be certified where we have a host of orders that we're going to satisfy after that.
We have TV product.
We have Cabin Venue updates.
We have heads-up display programs all of which are known and in backlog which is going to be the biggest part of that growth.
About 1/4 of that growth is going to come from the mandates that we've been talking about mostly in Europe for data link and collision avoidance.
We've got about 1/3 of that growth already in backlog.
We do have to go close the balance of those orders.
But we talked to our customers and we know that they want to pre-prepare their fleets as they go into the 2015 mandate time for that initial order slugs.
So we have some good visibility there.
And then the balance the last quarter is really spares flying into a half of better comparability.
A year ago we had a real front-loaded 787 initial spares and almost nothing in the back end.
This year we're going to see that back-end comparability give us some tailwind.
So if you combine those 3 things that's the visibility we have into the aftermarket and that is the summary reason we feel good about that aftermarket growth in the second half.
Our next question comes from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess it's more for Pat.
But if your deferred engineering was going down by call it $40 million or so why are were aren't we seeing the operating cash flow number bumping up? Well I certainly think there's opportunity to the operating cash flow number.
And I -- what I would say is we're still halfway into the year.
We've only generated $180 million to date.
But if I was to -- to be honest with you I do think there's opportunity to cash flow for the balance of the year.
And likely we'll update our guidance in the end of the third quarter.
Our next question comes from David Strauss of UBS.
Research Division</strong> On the aftermarket Clay specifically 787 have you seen any change in the provisioning patterns you would have expected to see given that the plane's been down here for 4 months? And also can you just explain or flesh out exactly what's going on with 787 relative to your revenue growth you're seeing there as compared to your actual production rate? Because I know your production rate isn't growing but you're obviously still seeing what it looks like to be pretty good revenue growth out of the 87? Sure David.
First of all relative to your first question we're really seeing no change from the airlines relative to their spares provisioning because they're still anticipating they're going to get a slug of these airplanes hopefully when the -- a certification gets approved that we all hope today but very soon.
And I think Boeing has been very clear that they've got a plan to get those aircraft modified extremely quickly.
And when they do they realized -- they the airlines realized they're going to need those spares to operate the aircraft.
So there's been really no slowdown at all.
And in fact relative to 787 spares I think as we sit here halfway through the year we have all the orders we expect to get except one chipset.
So we're pretty much fully booked for the rest of the year there so we feel very confident we're going to get that.
Relative to what we're seeing our guys are scary good because we're seeing almost an exact 50-50 split between those airlines that are purchasing spares and those airlines that are selecting our Dispatch 100 or what you all mostly call power by the hour.
And even as we are already having conversations going into 2014 that's kind of how we see it next year as well.
So I think that's a good model to look at as the 787 begins to ramp up and build out that we're on track for that 50-50 split.
Relative to your question about the revenue rate we always have to remind ourselves again comparably when we go back to last year remember we were at a higher production rate about 2.5 going to 3 when there was that -- it was last year's glitch and we were actually reduced to 2 per month.
And so the reason you're seeing a year-over-year improvement in revenue for 787 is because we're comparing last year's 2 per month each quarter to this year's 4 per month even though 4 per month is stagnant.
So you're seeing not only an improvement year-over-year but a little bit of a sequential move because of that dip down last year.
We still believe the second half of the year is when we're going to ramp up from our current 4 up to 7.
We're anticipating that.
We're in discussions right now with Boeing as we synchronize our -- their inventory to our production rates.
So I believe we're pretty much on track to be able to see that either this quarter or next.
Just -- and right now I can't quite call it exactly.
But I would say that's on track for the second half as we've always said.
Our next question comes from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Clay I was wondering if we could drill down a little bit into the Avionics piece of Government.
I hear you on the improvement in the outlook mostly on Surface which really played to last year getting a little better and some things working out there.
Avionics as I'm sure as I know you expected that the year-on-year comps outlook are getting worse.
And I just -- I was wondering if you could drill down there and give us a better feel for what's ramping down.
I know as you've expected but still what's going down and where you are on the pieces that are going to be going up like tanker et cetera? Yes.
Well you're right.
It's kind of across-the-board thing Joe.
I would say the biggest component that is reducing that year-over-year revenue as what we talked about I think for several quarters now and have been very transparent on is this transition of production programs -- I'm sorry of development programs into production and the sort of gap year you always have when you're going through that transition.
Typically what happens is you spend all your money on R&amp;D and then they test the program for about a year and go through all the bureaucracy in the Pentagon to get it approved to go into production and it's that gap year that creates the downer.
And we have 2 programs -- we actually have like 4 programs going through that right now.
But the 2 big drivers are: the E-6 which is by far and away the biggest part of it I think we'd even quantify that as about $50 million of deficit this year; and also the E-2 program where we've got some simulation work that we're doing on it both on the avionics and the maintenance terminal is also going through that.
Those are by far and away the larger impacts.
Now there are other impacts too.
For example CH-47 as we're waiting for multiyear authorization we saw a dip down there because actually we delivered ahead on CH-47 and we had to slow down waiting for that.
Our JHMCS the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems that goes into airplanes like Eurofighter are seeing a reduction because Eurofighter is coming down.
I think we referred to that in there as well.
The Saudi F-15 program again that's a development program where we have done some predevelopment work for Boeing and now we're seeing that come down a little bit just as we're kind of approaching I'll say the end of that development program and then as we approach production here in a year or so.
Those I believe are the sort of largest ones that are the downer.
Now I think those will convert to tailwind beginning next year as we see E-6 E-2 move from this gap year to development as we see the Saudi programs go into production.
We're still getting good lift from the F-35 and it looks like the numbers of tails there have remained the same in the budget.
So we'll still get some helmet systems there.
So we do have some opportunities going forward but we do have -- the biggest issue is getting through this gap year.
Our next question comes from Carter Leake of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Clay I was wondering if you could help us out on the European mandates TCAS 7.2 and data link how we should look at that on a longer-term growth perspective.
Is it going to be lumpy? Will it be smooth? Will most of it be sort of in 15-and-out years? Any color would be helpful.
Yes.
Well first thing there will be some lumpiness to it because retrofit programs are always lumpy and it kind of depends on which airlines choose to do which mod in which quarter.
Also there's a business aviation component to that.
It's a smaller component but it's a component nevertheless.
What I would say as we build toward 2015 you'll see the volume ramp up almost deniably.
As much as we'd like to get some of these folks thinking ahead of the game which is what the lift we expect in the half of this year let's face it most people wait to study for the test the night before.
And I think you're still going to see an accelerating impact of this as we go into '14.
And then probably '15 there'll be a flurry of activity as we go toward that mandated date.
Now the couple of things we're watching for that also could diminish the opportunity and these things are typically legendary as an example some aircraft will get waivers to the modification because they can choose not to do this in certain instance where they're willing to pay the performance penalty.
So for example some older business jets where it doesn't make any sense to spend the money to do this because their service life is not very long we'll typically go in for a waiver and they'll be granted to not have to do it because it's not going to be around that long.
The other thing that'll happen -- that could happen is that this relies on the ground equipment to be in place to utilize these onboard units.
And if EUROCONTROL doesn't get all of that done in Europe in time they typically will slip the implementation.
And then as we go between now and '15 they'll say "Well we're just kidding about '15.
It's really '16 or '17." And in that case it could stretch us out a little bit.
So those are the dynamics that we're looking at.
But in general we expect this to be again a nice complement to our aftermarket revenue for the next 2 or 3 years.
Our next question comes from Jason Gursky of Citi Investment Research.
Stephen [ph] for Jason.
Just a question on your biz jet OE and specifically on light biz jets.
I know you would talk about being conservative on that not expecting much improvement at all this year really stagnation.
But what are your -- what's your commentary on Textron's -- on Textron cutting production rates this year on these lights? And how does that build into your expectations for this year and going forward? Well obviously we were disappointed in that announcement but we're not surprised by it.
We obviously build ahead to Cessna and we had seen the volumes declining even before the announcement yesterday because of that component of the supply chain that we're doing.
And in fact even though directionally all the business jets are on -- directionally on track to what we would project at the beginning of the year I'd say there is some tweaking.
What we have seen is that we've seen even more weakness than we expected at the light end.
I think that's what you saw -- heard yesterday from Textron.
But we -- that has been made up for by even better strength at the high end.
With the highs and the mids we're seeing surprising strength at the mid level especially with the CL300 at Bombardier and then the Globals have been selling very well.
And so if you think about it our strategy some years ago to more -- be more diversified across the business jets and to capture the Global and put more work into some of the mids like the 605 and the 300 are serving us extremely well right now.
And that's really compensating for this weakness at the low end.
We're obviously watching to see what Cessna is going to do now as they align their production rates to the rest of the year.
But what I can tell you -- I mean let's take an absolute worst-case scenario which by the way we don't think is going to happen.
And that is if Cessna were to shut down their entire production line for the balance of the year that would impact us at only about 1 point of growth in Commercial Systems or about 0.5 point of corporate growth.
Again let me reiterate I don't expect them to do that but that gives you a sense of the relative impact to our total business.
We're well diversified in that area and more importantly we're well positioned in the areas of growth.
Our next question comes from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Congratulations Clay on the transition.
I wanted to ask specifically about that.
So Kelly was named President late last year.
The transition will be a little bit less than a year.
And I know these things have sort of uncertain timelines and there's a lot that goes into the evaluation of when it's time or when the right time to make the handoff is.
And I wondered if you might speak to how that evaluation went and how you feel the company is positioned given not only the challenges you've come through over the past couple of years but some of the end-market uncertainties you face and how ultimately you came to the decision that now was the right time? Well Carter thanks for asking the question.
Again everybody wants to know about palace intrigue and how all these things happen.
And now that we know what's going to happen I can be a little bit more transparent on that.
Well first I would say that in terms of the process this has been an extraordinarily well-laid out well-orchestrated diligent process that I began with my board over 2 years ago.
I knew that it was going to be the time.
In my view a current CEO and our Board of Directors there's no more important job than they have that is to ensure seamless leadership transitions especially at the top and so we took that very seriously.
I think the process that we went through I want to give very high compliments to my board for the advice the counsel and the collaboration that they did with me to go through this process.
I would also say we're very fortunate in this company to have a number of candidates that we considered that were experienced well prepared and could have fit into this role.
I think we're very fortunate that Kelly Ortberg as the guy that's going to do it.
He's run Commercial businesses he's run Government business he won big programs.
He's been through some really tough market conditions and he's performed exemplary through that whole thing.
Our customers know him and he knows our customers.
He's been part of the system.
I expect a seamless transition.
And if there's any reason why and there's no rule book for how long this should last the reason we picked this time in July is because Kelly is so darn ready.
He's ready to go and I'm ready to get out of the way and let him do that but also I would say because of my confidence in the position of this company and the way ahead.
You obviously never want to leave a job until you feel the task is fairly well in hand and not only is your successor ready but the company is in really good shape.
And I think both conditions are in play here.
I think the work we've done through these very tough market environments the amount of market share we've won and the business I see ahead of us are going to set this company up for years and years of success and prosperity regardless to what the market conditions are.
And I think Kelly and the team around him here at Rockwell Collins is very well prepared to mine those opportunities and to provide the share owner returns that all of you expect over time.
I'm very confident of that.
And this allows Kelly to really move into 2014 with the annual operating plan and the guidance in hand that that will be his own.
So I feel really really good if not a little bittersweet I would tell you about stepping aside now but I believe it's time.
Our next question comes from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
My question is in the aftermarket for business jets you're actually up 8% year-over-year after being down in the first quarter and up sequentially like 11%.
Now is there anything more to read into that about your prior comments or it just reflects the strengthening in large end and the mid end and the low end doesn't matter as much to you? I think if you look at just that Q1 Q2 we had a little spares headwind in Q1 and then got a lot of retrofit growth that kicked in in Q2.
Remember it's always a little lumpy as I mentioned.
But there's another dynamic that I think I would point to that again gives us confidence for some of the strength in the aftermarket.
And that is typically in periods where we don't see a real rebound or robust OEM recovery we do usually see good aftermarket and retrofit uptick.
And it's a little bit like your house again.
If you're not going to sell your house and move into that new house you're going to maintain and upgrade and keep your current house as comfortable as you can.
And the same thing goes for these older aircraft that are not being replaced driving the upturn in the OE rate.
We're seeing them come in and use some of these efficiency improvements and safety improvements that we're now offering.
And fortunately we have a number of those that we've transitioned from our OE development programs that we've used to win share into a retrofit program now that can be used to improve the maintenance lower the cost of operation of the existing business jets.
So there's a macro dynamic help in this too.
Our next question comes from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Actually I have a quick follow-up on the preproduction engineering investment.
Is the reduction there tied to one specific program or is it several programs? And then is this a shift of spending for next year? And if so how should we see preproduction spending the balance going up or moving next year? Yes.
Well I would say it is several programs probably most notably the 737 MAX.
And we had just projected a slightly earlier start than we experienced.
And yes I think it is -- you can characterize it as a shift of spending from this year into next year.
And so what I've been saying is that our peak year of addition to the deferred engineering balance was going to be this year.
I still think that's true but I think it's going to be -- I think FY '13 or '14 it'd be much closer to flat than I would've previously indicated.
Our next question comes from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask with regard to the government segment and sort of the timing of sequestration.
Does the timing of the delay between authority and outlays make sequestration have more of a calendar '14 than calendar '13 impact on the industry in general? And then given your fiscal year end is September does sequestration have a greater impact on your '14 than what we're seeing in '13? How do you think about that? Well first thing Noah I would say that we're all waiting to answer that question.
We're a bit as curious as you are because it is -- that's part of the residual uncertainty that we're all not aware of.
Here we are sitting pretty close to the end of April sequestration has been known in effect here for over a month.
And while we're beginning to see some early indications of reductions that are coming through those areas I talked about service and support we're seeing some of those contracts be either diminished or reduced.
We're seeing some -- fewer flight hours affect some of our PBL contracts.
We're seeing delays in some time and material repairs we would've done.
We think some obligation of funds for certain new programs are being delayed.
So we're beginning to see it now but it's hard to say what the full manifestation of it is because we don't have the master playbook that DoD is going by.
So I would say that's why we're being a bit cautious about the balance of this year and I think it would be premature until we see that right now to really see what the effect is going to be next year.
But again I think if there's anything we can say that we feel good about in the midst of all that uncertainty is I still feel very confident we've accommodated it in these numbers.
So of all the things you all have to worry about I hope you're not worried about Rockwell Collins getting worse because of sequestration.
My guess is that's on your mind in a few other places but hopefully not here.
But we'll -- it's not a satisfying answer to you Noah but I don't have a good answer to exactly how it's going to play out.
Our next question comes from Ken Herbert of Imperial Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to Clay dig a little deeper into the Commercial aftermarket on the MRO side in particular.
Can you talk geographically if you're seeing surprisingly any areas of weakness or strength in the quarter relative to what you were expecting? And as you look out for the remainder of this year it sounds like you're talking about a sort of a relatively flat market there.
Do you see any risk to that? I mean any continuation maybe of some of the headwinds we've seen in the second quarter here perhaps continuing through the rest of the year? I think geographically the -- probably the biggest areas where we see that impact is North America and Europe which is not surprisingly.
In Europe because of economic conditions; in North America because of the efficiency by which the airlines are operating.
I saw a quick flash of the load factors of the U.S.
airlines just in March and I think the average is something like 83% 84%.
I mean these are unprecedented levels of efficient management of how they operate the airplanes.
So I think that those are the areas we're seeing it relative to the risk factor.
I really don't see a lot -- just given the trends we've seen so far.
We think we've got it pretty much determined.
In fact if there's anything I think there's more opportunity than risk because I -- but as I think everyone is already sort of factoring down and tightening up for their I'd say anxiety about the direction of the economy.
And so having pre-prepared for a sort of soft economy I think that's why they are where they are.
And we've been sort of taken the optimism out of what we would have thought 6 months ago and we put that now into our plan.
If anything if we see a little bit better traffic growth we see a little bit better economic improvement then we actually could see opportunity.
Our next question comes from Josh Sullivan of Sterne Agee &amp; Leach.
Research Division</strong> This is Josh for Peter.
Your outlook for the Government business flattens out or begins to flatten out by 2015.
How does that look if you break it into domestic versus international? And assuming there's an offset here what are you assuming for growth in the out-years for the international military? And does the domestic budget mirror what's going on? Well we've said Josh quite sometime ago that we're expecting higher growth in our international markets across-the-board and we've talked about specific programs that we've won and more that we're pursuing to do that.
In general what we've said over the 5-year period is the international component of the defense is going to grow about 6% and obviously it's very much higher than we're growing currently.
In fact I'd say we're at that rate right now.
We'll see our international business component Government Systems pick up about 6% this year and we think we can continue that with the programs we've got locked in.
I think the return to growth that we're -- return to stability that we're talking about in 2015 occurs as a result of the stabilization of the largest defense market we serve which is the United States.
And interestingly enough I think sequestration actually gives me more confidence we'll get to that point because it drives the reset to the lower budget levels which we think will occur this year and next.
It just depend on those obligations that Noah asked earlier and how they flop whether they're taken into this year and flat next year or whether they go down a little bit next year which is I think what most of us are assuming it's going to happen.
So for budgetary concerns next year could be the low watermark.
And then after that the savings from defense are reset and then the area under the curve is established.
And actually we'll -- we believe we'll see no further declines and maybe even growth via inflation if the curve works like it's supposed to.
I've said also that I think as a result of sequestration maybe I am being overly optimistic but I believe defense should be bulletproof now because of the roughly $2.3 trillion of savings that we've realized out of the budget action of sequestration.
$1 trillion of that is coming from defense.
So I think it's high time that we look at the real problems we have in the federal government which is the entitlement spending and start addressing that because I think defense gave at the office.
And so if that plays out that way that gives me confidence we'll be back to that flat by 2015.
Our next question comes from Robert Stallard of Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought I'd follow up on the same theme actually Clay.
If we do see some stability in the defense budget over the next couple of years is it your expectation we'll see some consolidation in the defense industry? I think in times of lower budgets especially kind of long-term lower budgets like this you will always see some consolidation Rob.
The difference in this versus the period we went through in the early 90s is in the Cold War as you'll see far less consolidation at the major prime level.
The Defense Department has made it abundantly clear they believe that to have any kind of competition they think they've got this sort of big 5 and the rough order prime capabilities where they need it.
And at least currently they're not very keen on either approving or even considering consolidation at level.
So what you're probably going to see is more at the second and third tier level.
And you may see that out of necessity because there are going to be some of these smaller companies that are probably either going to exit the business or go out of business because there's not enough there to sustain them.
And so I think that's more likely where you're going to see it.
LLC Research Division</strong> But do you see Rockwell Collins as potentially acquiring or disposing in this situation? I think that there's a time where we'll do both.
I think there are going to be a large amount of sort of rationalization of portfolios in this sort of austere period.
And a number of companies are probably looking hard at pieces of their business that were enjoying nice P/E multiples 2 3 years ago that are not doing so well.
And so I'd -- I have said that there's -- we're looking at taking a hard look at all of our portfolios to see if they really do fit in the Rockwell Collins 5 years from now.
And if we find that they're not then we can see ourselves exiting a couple of businesses.
But likewise I think there will be other companies that see that maybe that they're not getting full value and they maybe a better fit for Rockwell Collins.
What we've got to do is get to a period of stability in the industry where everybody at least knows what the future is going to be so they can rationally put together a business plan.
And one of the reasons you've seen so little M&amp;A in this sector over the last couple of years is because you can't do that.
I think that they could be coming sooner now that we hopefully have a little bit more visibility into the future.
Our next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> A follow-up.
You mentioned the strength in '15 to '17.
And you mentioned by '15 the defense business could be flattish kind of implying further decline probably at a lower rate next year.
And you've also seen 3 important programs the CSeries the Lear 85 and the Legacy have a 6 months slip so they'll still be there but they'll be there later.
And you're facing a higher tax rate next year.
Can you give us some notional sense as we look at next year? Is that another transitional year before we start to grow again at a nice clip in '15? Well Cai obviously we don't want to give too much granular guidance till we get to the point where we do.
But I think if you look at a macro level a lot of what you've laid out there is a reasonable scenario.
First of all we do think that -- we haven't called us being back to flat by '14 in defense so you can assume there still could be some decline especially as the residual impact of sequestration is what Noah mentioned before falls over into '14 if we're not sure about.
So I think that's not an unreasonable scenario.
And while I think our Commercial business will still be good next year as we've always said we're largely dependent on our customers and our OEMs finishing those development programs on time and getting them the market when we'd hope they would for us to realize that benefit.
We have no control over that so long as obviously our development is going according to plan and we project and expect it to.
And so we'll be watching very closely those schedules for things like the CSeries and the A350 both of which are flying here this year.
And hopefully we'll go and develop next year but we're not sure when they will.
I think we'll have a better look at that later in the year.
And so that could be the one anomaly that we have to watch that could potentially erode some of the opportunity we thought we would have had next year.
I would also say very quickly though that opportunity is not going to go away just as we will enjoy over the next 2 years finally the benefit of the 787 ramp-up.
Those things are going to happen.
It's just a matter of when.
And so we'll be looking very closely at that over the next few years.
And I know Kelly in his new role will work his magic to make sure that when we come out in September you'll know exactly what we think is going to happen.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thank you Bonnie.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
I want to thank you all for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins' Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Keena.
And good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clay Jones; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected due to certain risks and uncertainties including but not limited to those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that I will turn the call over to Clay.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
Late last year I characterized fiscal year 2013 as a year of transition.
And this quarter's performance illustrates our progress along that journey.
Our third quarter results once again demonstrate the kind of operating performance that this company is capable of delivering even as we wait for overall revenue growth to return.
So let's start by looking at the sales results.
Revenue came in as expected with 7% Commercial Systems growth or most notably our aftermarket increased 13%.
That growth was offset by the anticipated decline in Government Systems of 11% as the impact of sequestration particularly impacted some of our short-cycle products and order timing.
Now the net effect was a 3% decline in revenue which I believe will represent the low watermark in year-over-year percentage comparisons for both Government Systems and Rockwell Collins overall with improvements beginning in our Q4.
Segment operating margin performance was exceptional across both businesses expanding by 140 basis points up to 22.4% of sales.
In Commercial Systems operating margins were up 340 basis points to 23.4% the third best quarterly margin rate we have ever posted for this business rivaling the rates we saw in 2008.
In Government Systems operating margins were 21.4% down just 40 basis points despite a dramatic sales decline as the benefits of cost reduction actions were able to mostly offset the headwind from our lower revenue.
Our ability to manage through a very dynamic market environment further demonstrates the strength and resiliency of our company's unique and balanced business model.
Now that performance allowed us to increase operating earnings by 3%.
And with the benefits of our share repurchase program we increased earnings per share by 5% to $1.20 a share.
And as we've done throughout the year we had another good quarter with cash flow well ahead of last year.
As we have seen almost continuously over the last 4 or 5 years there are plenty of changes to note this quarter across our served markets.
And let's first look at business jets where at mid-quarter we updated our guidance to incorporate the lower-than-expected production rates assessment.
Even after incorporating these changes we expect our FY '13 business and regional jet OE revenue to increase mid-single digits.
Now that growth is really impressive considering our current expectations for overall business jet deliveries including turboprops is a 2% decline for 2013.
Our strategic efforts over the last decade to better position the company with long-range and midsized business jets is driving the OEM revenue growth even as the light end of the market remains very soft.
Another area that has experienced a lot of volatility this year is the Commercial aftermarket.
First I will remind you that our aftermarket is a bit unique as about 1/2 is non-discretionary maintenance repair and overhaul or MRO while the other 1/2 comes from discretionary activities like spares and retrofits.
At the beginning of the year we plan for a very strong revenue growth across all portions of the aftermarket.
Then last quarter we reduced our guidance for the aftermarket based on weaker-than-expected MRO revenue.
Even though the market has not performed to our original expectations we believe that we now have a better understanding of the factors affecting service and support and here's what we see.
Overall airline traffic is expected to be up about 4% this year at our estimate.
However the airlines are continuing to push the limits of efficiency with load factors running at historically high levels.
This performance coupled with an increasing quantity of new aircraft entering the market is resulting in more aircraft retirements than our original expectations.
We now expect over 500 aircraft retirements this year which is creating a headwind for service and support as the older out-of-warranty aircraft are replaced by newer in warranty.
Moreover some of these retired aircraft are relatively new and are being torn down and sold for spares and for MRO purposes.
This trend is clearly impacting our service and support revenue as well and we expect it to continue for some time into the future.
Now the good news in what is otherwise a negative development is that we have a business called Intertrade which deals exclusively in used aircraft components.
Our Intertrade business is expected to grow more than 10% this year providing some offset to the MRO trends I just described.
Now even with those MRO trends we continue to expect increases in our discretionary aftermarket specifically in spares mandates and retrofits which will drive the majority of the aftermarket growth for us this year.
Now I'd like to shift over to Government where the question on everybody's mind is the implication of sequestration.
About 1/3 of our revenue decline this quarter is because of the implementation of these cuts.
As you would expect we continue to assess order activity anticipated over the balance of the year and compare that against our original estimates for sequestration.
And the news is relatively good.
If you remember in our original guidance we projected approximately $120 million of sequestration impact this year.
Based on our most recent assessment we now believe that the impact will be closer to $70 million and now anticipate our defense revenue will be down 7% in FY '13 compared to our original guidance of 10%.
So based on our performance in the first 3 quarters we remain confident that we will meet or exceed the midpoint of our previous revenue guidance and have increased our expectations for both earnings and cash flow toward the top end of the respective ranges.
As we look ahead to the end of the year I believe we will have effectively navigated this year of transition and taken the steps necessary to position the company for long-term growth.
With that let me now hand the call over to Pat for a review of the financial results.
Thanks Clay and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through to today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the third quarter of 2013.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company third quarter sales EPS net income and shares.
Total company sales for the quarter decreased 3% compared to last year's sales while net income declined 1% to $164 million.
Improved operating performance and the continued focus on returning capital to shareowners earnings per share in the quarter increased $0.06 or 5% to $1.20.
Turning to Slide 4 we have the third quarter results of Commercial Systems which achieved revenue of $563 million in 2013 up 7% from $526 million in 2012.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $14 million or 5% to $309 million primarily resulted from increased deliveries for the Bombardier Global and Challenger aircraft a full quarter of production of Beechcraft King Air turboprops.
These were partially offset by fewer deliveries to Cessna.
Aftermarket sales increased $27 million or 13% to $235 million due to higher sales of spares in both the air transport and business jet markets and increased mandate revenue.
Commercial Systems had great earnings performance this quarter as its operating earnings increased 26% to $132 million with operating margins expanding 340 basis points to 23.4%.
The increase in operating earnings and margins were primarily due to higher sales volume and lower company-funded R&amp;D expense.
Moving on to Slide 5.
Government Systems revenues decreased by 11% to $602 million in 2013.
The reduction was due to the impacts of sequestration mostly in our communication products the completion of certain development programs lower fighter jet-related sales and the reduction in GPS product sales.
These headwinds were partially offset by increased sales in areas such as network communications and international sales.
Looking specifically at our product categories sales of avionics decreased as expected by $52 million or 13% driven by headwinds from development programs simulator award delays and lower sales for fighter aircraft.
Communication product sales declined $25 million or 14% primarily due to fewer deliveries of satellite communication and data link products partially offset by increased deliveries of JTRS Manpack radios.
Surface Solutions sales increased $12 million or 24% from increased international sales of FireStorm targeting systems.
And finally sales of navigation products declined by $12 million or 21% resulting from fewer deliveries of our handheld GPS receivers.
Government Systems' third quarter operating earnings decreased $19 million to $129 million resulting in operating margins of 21.4%.
The decreased operating earnings and margins resulted from lower sales volume which was partially offset by the benefit from cost-reduction actions taken over the past year.
Looking to Page 6 we show year-to-date results for revenue net income earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Through the third quarter we've generated $309 million of cash compared to $192 million last year.
The increased cash generation resulted from lower incentive compensation payments as well as improved inventory performance and lower tax payments.
Slide 7 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the third quarter of the year.
Total spend remained relatively consistent at 20.5% of sales.
Company-funded R&amp;D expense declined as we completed development efforts related to a certain next-generation business jet programs.
Meanwhile we increased investment in preproduction engineering programs predominantly related to the Boeing 737 Max program.
Moving to Slide 8 we show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the third quarter compared to the end of last year.
In addition to $563 million of long-term debt we had $602 million of short-term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter.
The increase in short-term debt came from the issuance of commercial paper to fund share repurchases as well as the reclassification of long-term debt that is due within the next 12 months.
Now we ended the quarter with a debt-to-capital ratio of 49% and debt-to-EBITDA of 1.1.
I feel that this level of debt continues to provide us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs.
And I do expect it to come down over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally results later in the year and we pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the third quarter is detailed on Slide 9.
During the quarter we repurchased 1.4 million shares at an average cost of $63.72 per share and we repurchased 7% of our outstanding shares over the past 12 months.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 85 million shares or $4.2 billion return to shareholders through maintaining an active share repurchase program.
As of the end of the quarter we have $473 million remaining and we expect this authorization to fund our repurchases for the balance of 2013 and into 2014.
I'd like to turn now to our final slide Slide 10 where we provide the details of our fiscal year 2013 financial guidance.
As Clay outlined before we are narrowing our guidance to the middle of our original sales guidance at $4.65 billion for the year and expect Commercial Systems to be up 5% but we've actually increased our expectations for Government Systems and it will only be down about 7%.
Based on operating cash performance to-date we are increasing earnings per share expectations toward the top end of our range to between $4.55 and $4.60 and our cash flow guidance to be about $600 million.
Finally we are slightly adjusting our expectations for capital spending for the year to $125 million from our original expectation of $140 million based on lower-than-expected spend through the first 3 quarters.
All other aspects of our financial guidance remain unchanged.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So I'd now like to turn it back -- turn the call back over to Clay for some closing remarks.
Thanks Pat.
Well as most of you know this is my last earnings call before I retire in just a few days.
At times like this it's hard not to think back to the beginning of our journey as a new public company which began 12 years ago this month.
For all of us at Rockwell Collins the summer of 2001 was filled with the excitement and optimism that usually accompanies an IPO.
However we had no idea how the world would change or impact our business starting just 10 weeks later on 9/11 and frankly extending over the balance of the decade.
I'll spare you the walk down memory lane and the associated war stories but suffice it to say these were interesting times that presented both opportunities and challenges that tested our company structure judgment leadership and resiliency.
Along the way we had great successes as well as a few disappointments.
And I'll leave it up to you and history to judge the overall result.
All I'll say is we did the best we could to serve all our stakeholders and position this company for success no matter what cards we were dealt.
So let me close with 2 final thoughts.
First I want to thank all of you who invested both your time and your treasure in our company along the way.
Unlike some CEOs I actually enjoyed all well almost all of my interactions with analysts and investors.
You've supported us challenged us made numerous suggestions and provided great insights all of which helped make us a better company.
And to those of you who have put your trust and money in Rockwell Collins we are profoundly grateful and we'll always work to retain that trust.
Which leads to my final thought.
I leave having never been more optimistic about the future of this company.
It has secured great market positions that will be in an annuity for years to come.
It is a financial stalwart with abundant flexibility to deploy capital in very value creating ways.
It has a value system that prizes the highest standards of integrity and has demonstrated the kind of focus that puts customers and investors above self.
And it is blessed with the quality of leadership that will ensure that we not only proceed full speed ahead through this transition but we'll meet the inevitable future challenges with experience and resolve.
I have every confidence that Kelly Ortberg and his talented experienced team will take Rockwell Collins to new heights and ensure it achieves its full potential.
Thank you all for your support over the years.
And with that I'd like to open the Q&amp;A session.
So operator we're now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess my question is on defense and I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit more about Government Systems in terms of why you believe this is the low watermark in terms of what gets better.
And related to it in the past at some of the conferences you've talked about the down 5% to 10% next year.
Now that you're going to end this year at a higher level is that still how you're thinking about next year? Well first thing I think the immediate fourth quarter is going to be better because of that 11% down I'd say about $25 million of it was surely order timing that didn't come in as we had expected it to this third quarter that we've already got the order and it's going to slip over into fourth quarter.
If you were to normalize that it would have been more like an equitable 7 7.
So we have a little benefit actually from the delay that's going to help us next quarter and that's what gives me confidence there.
Relative to next year obviously it's way too early to call that because we still have a lot yet to learn and know about what the Pentagon is doing relative to sequestration what both Houses of Congress are going to do relative to the '15 budget.
But I think all in well -- and I should say heck we call fourth quarter and I think that's pretty aggressive.
But I'd say all in what we do is we look at next year and I think the defense will still be down but it won't be down at the level we saw this year.
I really do believe that most of the lower-level supply chain folks Tier 1 Tier 2 have taken a brunt of the cut so far.
And eventually we're going to see some of the major OEM cuts come through to resolve the budgets they have there.
Now no question some of that will trickle down to us.
But I don't think it will be any worse than it was this year even if you calendarize it through the year.
The second thing that gives me even more confidence is remembering this year of transition we had probably about $100 million of headwind just from programs that are transitioning.
Those programs so far are all still alive and seemed to enjoy a lot of support and they'll be moving from this transitionary period of finishing development moving into production and we'll see actually a tailwind for some portion of that.
And so as I kind of look out to next year and frame it I see some uppers I see some natural downers.
And so we've estimated sequestration I think as accurate as anybody has this year.
And as we look at sort of what we think the general environment is for next year and what it's likely to be that is the -- I will say the macro view I'm basing that statement on.
So yes I think Government System will be down next year not as much as it was down this year.
Your next question comes from Myles Walton Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a bit about R&amp;D at a high level? Are we at the tail end of a long long investment cycle and this is kind of the benefits we're going to reap or is there something related to timing here? Because if I look just isolated to company spend it looks like the full year could be down $40 million year-on-year $35 million to $40 million year-on-year which is obviously better than you were anticipating at the start of the year.
So is this a headwind for '14 or is this more efficient use of R&amp;D? Well I got some guys scrambling around the room to look and see if we can confirm or deny your estimate on the year.
But while they're doing that let me say that in my view I think it's just a timing issue.
Specifically what we're seeing this quarter is a sort of a wind down of I'll say the product line Pro Line Fusion work.
It will still have a lot of R&amp;D going in the application of Pro Line Fusion to the roughly 15 platforms we're working on.
But that's a good portion of what the company funding is down.
However what we're seeing is a ramp-up of the Max funding.
But remember that's all deferred.
And so total R&amp;D spend this quarter actually went up but it's just in 2 different buckets because of the reduction in this company discretionary or expensed R&amp;D and the deferred R&amp;D that's going into the new projects.
I believe when you look at R&amp;D all in which is what we do R&amp;D will continue to be flat or a little bit increased if the company is successful.
If you look at the mix of R&amp;D you are seeing a decline in the discretionary portion and an increase this year and next in the deferred portion.
The other thing I'd add Myles is as we look kind of sequentially quarter-to-quarter we are expecting to see an uptick in R&amp;D on the Commercial side of the business just really due to the timing of certain programs.
Your next question comes from Richard Safran Buckingham Research.
I've got a question on sort of on opportunities.
So Boeing looks like it's set to launch the 777X later this year.
I want to know if you could possibly discuss here what you might see as the incremental opportunities for share gains? For example if Boeing were to go to an SFE model for the 777X would you see that as a possible benefit to you? I think it could be Rich.
It's probably premature for me to talk specifics about what the opportunities are but if you look at our last 2 or 3 runs in the air transport competitions we fared pretty well in picking up market share.
So I like our chances just based on historicals.
But on the 777 as I've said before on this call a lot of it depends on what Boeing chooses to do specifically with the avionics systems and there are 2 very distinct architectural approaches that they are studying and they could look at.
I think we have opportunities regardless of which architecture they pick but 1 architecture obviously pouring [ph] over the 787 components and the basic flight systems of 787 present a little bit higher opportunity for us.
So yes I would say net we have market share opportunity hard at this point until we get the architecture nailed down to say specifically what and how much.
Your next question comes from Joe Nadol JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> My question is on cash flow and what's changed.
It was really nice to see the guidance go up particularly in the operating cash flow side.
Patrick you mentioned the inventory's trend for the last couple of years had been going the other way.
So it's definitely nice to see that go up.
What's changed in the plan for the year? And as you look forward into next year how -- any initial sense on how we can think about conversion trends from earnings and cash flow? Joe what I would say is that the 2 biggest changes from the plan -- the original plan one is a lower deferred R&amp;D spending.
We talked about that probably for the last 2 quarters and specifically related to that 737 Max spending and the ramp-up of that.
The other area that we saw benefit on is in the R&amp;D tax credit.
We got the benefit of that not only the P&amp;L benefit but the cash flow benefit from the lower R&amp;D tax credit.
Now with that said I'd also say that we've pretty much hit our numbers with respect to working capital.
So we've been able to flow all of that good news to cash flow for the year.
Now as it relates to the trend for next year I would say there's a -- I would put the cash flow conversion pretty much at a par with this year.
And the big swinger is always pension contributions and deferred spending.
And as we see deferred spending next year it's going to be probably flat to slightly down.
And I wouldn't anticipate pension contributions to be much different than they were this year.
So I think our conversion for '14 will be about the same as this year and then improving thereafter as the deferred investment comes down.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just on Commercial OE 2 quick things.
First if you could talk about the flattish air transport growth there and how you expect that to trend as your new programs come online.
Of course there was a tough comp from last year.
And then going back to the 777X that Rich asked about I'm wondering if the 2 different architectures it looks like in both cases you increased share.
It seems like the difference would be a system that has your displays versus a system that has your displays and flight management just based on what we think we learned in Paris.
And so perhaps you could characterize what your content would look like under those scenarios versus your actual content on Max and 787.
Sure.
Well to your first question Rob that the -- I'll say the air transport OE was a little nonintuitive this year because there was very little growth there.
But there are a couple of 3 things coming on one of which you cited and that is the comparables from third and fourth quarter of last year were very high to try to get across.
But a couple of other things under the waterline.
First I would say we got virtually no material help from 787.
Remember we've always said the ramp-up to synchronize our production which was well ahead of Boeing's wouldn't really start occurring to this fourth quarter that we're in now.
And so we'll begin to see a little help in the fourth quarter and then more of it obviously as we get into next year so next year is going to be a much bigger contributor than we've seen this year.
So that's one thing.
And then the other 2 things going on there is that wouldn't be obvious is that typically we book any non-recurring engineering that we get from the OEMs into this OE line.
It's not a frequent occurrence but every once in a while when there are changes both Boeing and Airbus will give us non-recurring payment for making those changes that are out of scope.
Plus on top of that we had a lot of work that we were doing on the C919 specifically over in China.
Both the Boeing component of that and the Chinese component of that are down for the quarter and so that's having some impact of dampening the growth.
The second one we had which just gets into the real arcane is that our heads-up display product that comes out of our air -- is managed out of our air transport area is often sold on a product basis.
One of the great strengths of our company is selling commercial products in the military.
Well last year we had a number of HUD sales into 2Z 3Z 4Zs into military platforms that went away this year because of the funding.
So if you look at those 2 things alone and were to take away the NRE and the HUD sales our air transport OE would have been up 5% which I think is least directionally correct.
So that's what the dampening effect that we saw on that side.
Relative to your second question on 777 I'm going to go back and give the same answer.
It's premature to talk about any specific architectural decisions Boeing would make.
I have found over my few years here at Collins it never pays to get out ahead of your customer so we won't do that today.
But when they make that decision we have worked very closely with them.
I think we have -- very specifically what opportunities that would flow from either of those 2 opportunity sets.
And I'm not going to predispose what the answer might be here in public.
Your next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr Cowen &amp; Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Patrick incentive comp maybe give us some color.
You've had good numbers here.
Where was incentive comp in the quarter and what should we be thinking about for the entire year? What I'd say Cai is that our incentive comp plan remains on track.
I think I've talked to you we're around 100% payout actually a little bit below that.
And there were really no material adjustments to incentive comp this year.
Now interestingly enough year-over-year it was a pretty big headwind because we had almost no incentive compensation in the third quarter of last year because we were adjusting guidance down.
So there was about a $20 million headwind year-over-year on incentive compensation.
Fortunately we were able to offset that with a number of other I'll say employee-related costs that came down in the quarter but no material change to incentive compensation.
And I would expect the run rate to continue into the fourth quarter as well.
Your next question comes from David Strauss UBS.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the aftermarket I appreciate your comments.
What exactly is the aftermarket guidance now for the full year because I know it's bounced around a bit.
In my notes I still have mid- to high-single digits up which looks tough given the comp in the fourth quarter.
So maybe just talk about that.
And then specifically breaking it down on mandates and spares and MRO what you're seeing? And how far along are you on the mandate side and is that an upper as we head into '14? Yes.
Well we hadn't changed our guidance for aftermarket since the adjustment we made last quarter to MRO.
And I would say as I said in my prepared remarks we're not counting on any recovering MRO as we did in the fourth quarter.
So all the growth is going to be in that discretionary portion which are mandates retrofits and spares.
The way I would look at it this way I feel pretty good across the board on the mandates on the spares that we've got loaded in there and I'd say on most of the retrofits especially as they involve the air transport side things like the 767 display program at FedEx is locked and loaded we're going to get that I don't think there's any ambiguity to it.
There's one area of risk that we're looking at very closely and that's the discretionary retrofits related to business aviation.
Undeniably because of the -- just the overtone of biz jets especially at the light end there should be and historically has been a circumstance that when people aren't buying new business jets they upgrade their older business jets.
And so they're typically very lucrative in terms of upgrading display programs or efficiency upgrades.
And we saw that last year a lot we saw at the beginning of this year.
We are seeing some softening in that a lot of quote activity.
But the dealers that we deal with are struggling to close those quotes.
And so I think the biggest risk item we've got going into the fourth quarter is that segment alone.
And so we're working it really hard we're watching it very carefully.
We don't think it's severe enough that we're willing to come off our guidance right now.
But if there's any risk I think that's where it is.
Otherwise I feel pretty good about it.
Your next question comes from Carter Copeland Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Government Systems and the resiliency in the margin there.
I know you briefly commented on '14 and the natural uppers and downers.
And I wondered if you might kind of put that in context with what you've seen this year in terms of maybe mixed benefits or cost benefits.
Maybe just some color around how the margins have been so resilient in the face of the volume declines and what that means for what we should think about profitability levels next year? I'll be glad to Carter as best I can.
First let me say and I think it's undeniable the folks at Government Systems and the shared services have been working their butt off.
The good news is we saw this coming we didn't walk past the graveyard where sequestration's concerned.
We took the $60 million restructuring.
We all remember in the fourth quarter of last year.
And so the best thing we did is we were prepared for it and we acted early and often to try to get our costs down where we could and control what we could control.
I think far and away I could talk about all of the sub elements but far and away that's what's helped us.
We cut back on some R&amp;D as we've said.
But that should have been cut back because the opportunity set is not as great there and we are able to shift that over into our Commercial Systems.
We're also looking at bringing more Commercial Systems product over so we don't need that R&amp;D.
So that certainly helped out.
And I guess the last thing I would say is we have been a little lucky.
And the lucky part is that the cuts that we've been incurred have largely been through the development programs that come with naturally at lower margins.
And so our stable product the legacy products that we have have been hanging in there pretty tight and that's where most of our margin come because a lot of it is commercially-based.
It's derived from what we have in the commercial so it commands those margin.
And then the final thing I'd say that we're beginning to get traction on and I think it's going to be the bigger contributor as we go out the next few years is our international sales.
FireStorm is a great example of that.
Surface was the terrible portfolio over the last 2 years now it's the jewel in the crown because it has been able to reset itself quickly and capitalize on this product that's very attractive in the international markets.
As we begin to get more of that kind of opportunity set coming in I think that will help us as well.
Your next question comes from John Godyn Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> From your vantage point are you seeing any changes in the marketplace on the back of the Cessna production cuts? And Clay given your experience in the industry just a best guess as to when we'll see a true inflection in demand for new jets? No I'm not seeing a lot of industry change at the low end as a result of that.
I think environment in business aviation really hasn't changed over the years.
I think the disappointment there for all of us is that we had expected some improvement and in fact we haven't seen that we've seen about steady-state to the high end and we've seen it worsen at the low end.
As I mentioned in my remarks we're expecting to be about 2% down for business aviation because of the irrelatively higher quantities at the low end that's in deliveries.
And we would have thought it to be maybe flat or up when we started the year.
And I think -- but the conditions that brought that on and I'm sure that Scott talked about it a lot yesterday so I won't add much to that.
But it's just the general economic conditions that are not favorable for people making this particular capital purchase at this particular time.
And I think until we see that recovery I have often said things in the largest market in the United States I think over 3% GDP growth.
And I think we need some government regulation resolutions on taxes and health care that will restore general economic confidence.
And when that happens then I think businesses start to reinvest in everything not just in business aviation but certainly that will come along as well.
So it's hard to call I think any of us would be unwise to do it.
But I would say we probably shouldn't expect any meaningful change over the next year.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky Citi Investment Research.
And Jason has withdrawn his question.
Your next question comes from Robert Stallard Royal Bank of Canada.
LLC Research Division</strong> I thought I maybe ask a question on the buyback.
Given your comments about debt repayments in the fourth quarter and the overall leverage of the company at this point do you think it's fair to assume that the buy back going forward will be fairly more modest? Well we've been talking about that the entire year.
We did have a fairly large slug of shares in the first half particularly in the first quarter.
And I said we continue to buy back shares but at a lower rate.
So I think that trend will continue for the balance of the year.
The other thing to point out is that fourth quarter by far is our largest cash flow quarter every year.
And so we are going to be generating a lot of cash flow we will use some of it for share repurchases and some of it to pay down that short-term debt.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do you expect to take fourth quarter repayments to maybe be similar to what we saw in the third quarter because it's pretty modest in the third quarter right? I don't want to speculate as to the exact amount.
But on that order of magnitude yes.
Your next question comes from Yair Reiner Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Patrick just a follow-up question on that.
You have $600 million of short-term debt some of it is bond some of it is bank debt.
Kind of where would you like to be? How much of that do you want to term out? And if we kind of look ahead 12 months what do you want the balance sheet to look like? What I would say is that we'll be terming out a portion of that short-term debt.
Exactly how much I think depends on a couple of different things.
First of all we're still putting our plan together for next year and there is always variability around cash flow both for this year and next year.
So I would say we'll definitely refinance the $200 million of long-term debt that's coming due.
And then another slug of that commercial paper will probably go long term as well.
I just don't know how much at this point in time.
Your next question comes from Noah Poponak Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about fiscal '14 I guess from a total company perspective.
If you knew nothing about the financial model I think the reference to '13 as a transition year would sort of imply '14 looks much better.
And so I know you don't want to get too far ahead of September but how are you thinking about that? Does revenue grow much more than flat on a total company basis? Is there anything much different next year in the segment incremental margins than you normally see and anything below the line worth noting? It seems to me that the answer to all of that is really no and that everything looks fairly similar to '13? And so given the reference to '13 as a transition year just want to make sure there isn't something much different than what I'm expecting.
Well no the last thing I want to do as I leave is to steal Kelly Ortberg's thunder.
So as we typically do in September we'll come out with all the answers to every question that you just ask to try to provide the color that ultimately you're going to want to know on what '14 looks like.
The only thing I would do is reiterate what I've already said.
I do believe this quarter will be sort of -- we'll look back historically and say this is sort of a low watermark.
I think it might be lumpy as it goes.
Nothing in this life is a straight line as we all learn especially given the market conditions.
But I just have a feeling right now and having done it for a while I guess that I'm entitled to a feeling.
I have a feeling right now that it isn't all peaches and cream in the future but it's going to get better than it has been.
Because the last 2 or 3 years have been pretty darn hard.
And I just think we're getting to that point of stabilization.
If you heard my presentations over the last year that's what we're looking for.
We're looking for that stabilization where we become more predictable.
I absolutely believe as bad as it still is that Government Systems is approaching that stability.
And I've said by this time next year that market will be as stable as it ever has.
I mean there'll be uncertainties but we'll be back to a point where sequestration will be baked in we'll have a strategy out of the Pentagon we'll have a '15 budget and a sense of what the priorities are.
And we'll be much easier able to call it.
And as I said before I don't think it's going to be as far down as it was this year.
In Commercial Systems it completely relies on things outside of my control.
What's the economy going to be to help start facilitating a business jet upper on the light end I think the long range will hang in there.
The air transport production rates are locked and loaded.
And then as we lace in these market share improvements we rely totally on our OEMs to get that total development job done.
And hopefully again we'll do our portion of it.
But when they get that job done there's an annuity there that is undeniable.
We're going to see 787 A350 CSeries MRJ a whole host of new business jets coming in over the next 3 to 4 years.
And what quarter that happens? Yes I guess we'd like to call it but it won't matter.
That's going to happen.
And that's the undeniable part of this transition I talk about.
So that's why I feel good about where this company is.
And if you're not in it you better get in it.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro Shapiro Research.
Patrick I wanted to pursue a little bit a question you answered to Cai.
You said employee costs were down offsetting some of the roughly $20 million headwind for comp.
Can you quantify how much it was down? And whether it was allocated the normal way across the different sectors because the incremental margin in Commercial was very high and obviously were even higher whatever the negatives were here.
I would say this George it did distribute kind of as you would expect based on the employee base it's across the board.
It offset most of that headwind that I talked about from an incentive compensation perspective.
And the thing that's going to be hard to predict a little bit is next quarter we've got -- we'll definitely have more headwind on incentive compensation.
The question is are some of these employee costs particularly we saw some very favorable medical spending the question is whether that favorable trend will continue.
That tends to be pretty lumpy and harder to predict.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky Citi Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> I did want to ask a question on the rarely asked topic which is in-flight entertainment.
Not just the wide-body stuff of course I'd like to get a little bit of color on your expectations on that wind down and whether these higher rates of retirement of aircraft you're going to have an accelerating impact on wide-body IFE.
But I'd be curious to know how the product development cycle is going on with IFE and whether there are some opportunities for you in other areas narrow-bodies in particular and how that is going to impact the outlook for your transport OE and biz jet OE over the next 12 to 18 months? Right.
Well first relative to wide-body IFE I think the trends are very clearly -- there is a wind down business.
We're really producing no hardware for that it's basically a service and support type business as long as they stay on wing.
But what I would say even though it's a declining sales revenue it's very profitable now which that business hasn't been over the majority of its life.
So we're not in a good place relative to growth nor do we expect to but it is a good profit and cash generator as it winds down.
And I don't think -- I think we properly sized the relative rate of decline.
I mean it's been going down about $0.20 or $0.25 a year as I recall.
I don't think it's going to continue to kind of atrophy at about those levels until it goes away.
The good news over time it will just become a footnote in a more declining sense of a drag on Commercial Systems as the size decreases.
Relative to everything else well which is what we call cabin management we're actually very bullish on that.
We're introducing a whole new product line of what we call a client-centric product that significantly reduces the costs and improves the reliability of the narrow-body product and provides in-seat capability at a much lower cost which we think is going to be an extremely attractive product for the narrow-body world as we go.
We should get that product certified I want to say by early next year.
And so as we go into '14 that's one of the opportunity sets for growth that we see in Commercial Systems probably more to the back half of the year.
But going forward beyond that if you go past the like 12-month period I think yes that would be a very good contributor.
And then our biz jet cabin work continues to be good.
Our Venue product is selling extremely well really for the same reason highly reliable lower-cost system flexible as it go into all cabin sizes.
So that is a good business for us now.
We think that there are some product introductions coming out that will provide us even more growth.
Your next question comes from Howard Rubel Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow-up on one of the R&amp;D things that you talked about.
You had some programs that ended and could you elaborate on them? And also talk about the KC-46 and your integral to that and it sounds like it's making real progress? Yes.
The -- I'd say the biggest effort there that we had that's winding down is the Pro Line Fusion basic product development.
As you know it is sort of 2 different kind of element the basic product line and then we have application costs which is certification and tailoring it to the specific OEM.
And it's the application costs that will be going on as a steady-state and in some cases ramping up but the product line cost is the big kahuna.
And that's begun to wind down Howard.
So that's probably the biggest tailwind that we're getting out of R&amp;D.
And then the rest of them are just small I would say a lot of BFE product upgrades that are finishing.
I've mentioned some of the cabin management stuff.
We're in the certification work now and not basic product development.
So that's what's bringing that down.
In terms of KC-46 the program is going very well from our perspective.
Obviously the application of a lot of the commercial products is something we know how to do and that's proceeding apace.
And so everything I see or know of in the KC-46 is favorable.
Your next question comes from Kevin Ciabattoni KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> It's actually Michael Ciarmoli.
One area of focus just on the margins for Commercial obviously very good in the quarter.
How do we think about the sustainability there maybe over the next 6 to 9 months as you rethink with the 787 I mean is that going to be sort of a dilutive event to both the corporate margin or the commercial margins and the incremental margins? Michael it's Patrick.
What I'd say is if you look at the margin performance for the quarter there are 2 -- kind of 2 key things.
One is there was about a 46% incremental flow before research and development.
That is probably a little richer than it's been over the past few quarters because we had such a good performance in our aftermarket.
And as you know aftermarket tends to be a little bit higher profitability than the OEM.
The second thing is lower R&amp;D.
I think year-over-year we're down about $10 million in research and development.
What I'd say about both of those things is the product mix is going to vary quarter-by-quarter but obviously as 787 starts to ramp-up it will come in at a lower margin so discreetly that 787 is going to be dilutive to the incremental margin.
The other thing is regarding R&amp;D as I indicated earlier we're expecting R&amp;D to go up a little bit from third quarter to fourth quarter.
So I don't think it will be as much of a tailwind over the course of the next few quarters as it was this quarter.
Your next question comes from Michael Derchin CRT Capital Group.
Research Division</strong> Clay you mentioned something that's relatively new phenomena which is the parting out of relatively new aircraft by the airlines.
I'm wondering if you could expand upon that.
And also you mentioned a business that you're in I wasn't familiar with that Intertrade can you expand on that also? Sure.
Well I think it's a phenomena that's being talked about a lot more lately because there are a lot more participants in it.
In essence as I said in my opening statements what you're seeing is some of these retirements which are accelerating are relatively new and especially if they're in the 737 next generation and A320 families where there's a lot of proliferation of those aircraft but also where the parts have some utility.
And what we're seeing there is a lot of the used parts are particularly attractive to airlines who have aircraft who's maybe service life is somewhat finite 5 to 6 years when they know that a refurbished used part will serve them very well and reliably and don't need to go buy a brand new part.
And that I think is the phenomena that we're seeing.
It's always existed but not in the scale that we're seeing now.
So it's a combination of the more availability of these aircraft being retired and the airlines trying to run their operation very efficiently.
I want to reiterate these are very safe parts they're certified they're backed by certification just like anything else is.
But we're just seeing a higher quantity of them.
Interesting enough we bought this Intertrade business over 10 years ago essentially to help us broker avionics equipment that we would take as trade in as used.
It's grown far beyond that.
And now we're even in some of the engine business brokering now.
So we provide an airline just about any part they'd want whether it's an Avionics or Rockwell Collins part or anyone else.
And as I said it's been very lucrative for us over the last year as we participated in this phenomena.
Your final question comes from Joe Nadol JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a follow-up on cash deployment.
Clay you did mention during your opening comments just on the opportunities here for Rockwell Collins to deploy the balance sheet in very value accretive ways.
You guys obviously have been really focused on the buyback even adding a little bit of debt the last couple of years to buy back all that stock.
Today we're at $0.70 so it's the highest it's been since precrisis.
And I'm just wondering when you look at your stock when you look at the M&amp;A opportunities out there both Commercial and Defense if changing valuations of all types have had any impact on the way you're thinking about deploying capital? What I would say about that Joe is that our basic look at capital deployment has not changed in the period that I've been the CEO.
We don't keep a lot of cash laying around because we're a good cash machine we can get it when we need it.
We've got a lot of good backstops so we dominated the risk there.
And will you see what the opportunity set is out there value creative strategic acquisitions is always our first priority if we can help grow the business.
The environment for that hasn't been all that good in the last 2 or 3 years because of the inability to value some of these properties in a way that's reasonable.
As those opportunities come up then we'll continue to take a hard look at that.
If they make sense and they pass all of our financial gates then we'll do one.
If not then we'll return that cash to the shareowners as we have.
As Patrick mentioned we've returned over $4 billion and significantly reduced our share count over this period when we haven't been doing acquisitions.
But both apply and we've been very clear about that in our capital deployment discussions we've had with all investors.
I would expect you would see that same strategy laid out under Kelly's leadership here.
Patrick obviously will still be here helping him do that.
And so I would say no big changes where that's concerned.
But we're ever mindful of the conditions out there to ensure that what we do is creating value.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Beusing for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
I wanted to thank everyone for joining us today and participating in the conference call.
Thank you.
This concludes today's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Financial Results Conference.
You may now disconnect your line.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Steve Buesing.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen; the incoming Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
So with that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Well thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Well today marks my first official earnings call since I took over as CEO at the beginning of August.
And at that time I said it's full speed ahead for our company because I fundamentally believe in our overall strategy and that we're headed in the right direction.
We're well positioned in our markets.
Our customer relationships are strong thanks to a history of delivering on our commitments.
We've had a unique and differentiating business model that leverages common investments and resources across commercial and government businesses.
And we are very solidly -- we're very solid financially with strong operating margins and cash flow as well as a balance sheet that gives us the flexibility to make investments where we see good returns.
And we have a seasoned management team and dedicated employees who are committed to our success and know what it takes to win.
And these are just a few of the reasons I'm so confident about the future of Rockwell Collins.
But like any business we're not without challenges.
Our end markets in defense and the light end of business aviation remain near the bottom of their cycles.
We've seen continued delays in new aircraft entering into service that have extended beyond any of our original expectations.
And the political environment in the U.S.
is making it increasingly difficult to plan our business as no one knows what the next round in negotiations will yield.
As a result we've struggled to generate top line growth for several years despite what I feel have been well-laid plans.
That's why when I took the helm I also indicated that my #1 priority was to accelerate our company's return to growth and we would achieve that growth by focusing our effort in 3 key areas: First increasing our international business; second enhancing and expanding our core capabilities; and third building on our strong commitment to innovation and I believe we're making progress on all fronts.
So let me review a few of the highlights in each of these key areas.
On the international front we continue to expand business in the Middle East with sales of our FireStorm targeting system and in Brazil with equipment on the KC-390 aircraft.
In Europe AgustaWestland selected our HeliSure Synthetic Vision and Terrain Awareness and Warning System for 4 of their helicopter platforms.
And just yesterday we announced that China Sichuan Airlines will be the launch customer of our PAVES on demand in-flight entertainment system for their narrow-body aircraft.
And in the next few weeks you'll hear more about our international progress through announcements at the upcoming Seoul and Dubai Airshows.
We made significant steps to expand our positions in our core markets this year.
For example we secured the large-format displays on the 737 MAX and grew our content on the A350.
We accomplished our 787 ramp to support 7 aircraft a month.
And we're on track to ramp up to full-scale production of 10 aircraft a month by the end of the calendar year.
In business and regional aviation we experienced sales growth from Bombardier's Challenger and Global programs as well as Beechcraft's King Airs.
In fact over the last 3 years our business in regional OEM sales have increased by over 30% from $466 million to $612 million in a market that's been relatively -- seen relatively little growth.
This growth was due to our strong market share capture particularly at Bombardier and Gulfstream.
And our strategy to diversify upmarket has helped us withstand the turbulence at the light end.
Our ongoing commitment to innovation was on display this week at the NBAA Convention in Las Vegas where we announced several new innovations for both cabin and flight deck.
Among these was our EVS-3000 Enhanced Vision System which uses a new proprietary multispectral sensor developed by our engineers to significantly improve the detection of outside terrain hazards and obstacles in low-visibility weather conditions.
And earlier this month the F-35 Joint Program Office announced it will focus exclusively on maturing the Helmet Mounted Display system codeveloped by Rockwell Collins and Elbit Systems of America which leverages tremendous innovation and advanced technology to provide unprecedented situational awareness capabilities in support of that F-35 program.
These are all examples of our focus on executing our strategies to drive performance accelerate our return to growth and ultimately increase shareowner value.
We effectively sized the risk related to sequestration and incorporated it into our plan not only the negative revenue impact but also ensuring we rightsize the company to maintain the level of operating margins we expect out of our business.
And in the end we're seeing the results.
We achieved our guidance range across the board and exceeded our guidance for both earnings per share and cash flow.
More specifically we generated over 21% total operating margins grew earnings per share by 10% and improved cash flow by 16%.
This performance was a testament to our commitment of our 19 000 employees around the world.
Now as we look to 2014 we proactively planned for the realities of the market.
I believe we're well positioned to deliver strong operating earnings and cash flow.
Our Commercial Systems business is poised for growth driven by 787 and A350 volume as well as higher aftermarket demand.
I do believe we've derisked the 2014 plan by baking in the realities of the recycling impact to our air transport MRO business along with the effects of the delayed business jet recovery.
In addition our Government Systems business will see much the same conditions in 2014 that we saw in 2013.
We believe sequestration is here to stay and we've planned our fiscal 2014 just as we did in 2013.
And we should also experience a full year of savings from the restructuring activity undertaken in fiscal year 2013 which is expected to allow us to once again generate operating margins greater than 20% despite these declining revenues.
As I look beyond 2014 our market share gains are expected to pay off driven by our Commercial Systems business where we expect double-digit growth for our air transport OEM sales supported by continued growth from the 787 A350 and the CSeries.
We anticipate air transport aftermarket revenues will be fueled by regulatory mandates and spares provisioning for new aircraft.
In business and regional we see a path to OEM growth as a number of new aircraft where we've gained market share will enter production specifically the Embraer Legacy and the Lear 85 as well as some yet to be announced platforms.
Business and regional aftermarket revenues are expected to continue to grow through retrofits utilizing new product introductions such as GPS-guided landing and cabin upgrades for larger aircraft.
In Government Systems our return to growth after 2014 is based on the assumption that the U.S.
spending will bottom out in 2014 and then stabilize in 2015.
We also expect a number of programs will ramp up production such as the KC-10 and the E-6B aircraft updates as well as the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System and the F-35 helmets.
In addition the international sales will be a key element of our growth strategy in Government Systems as we continue to penetrate markets and execute on these new programs.
So to summarize we continue to improve efficiency to maintain our strong operating performance and we've sustained our investment in R&amp;D to support our long-term growth objectives.
2014 will be an important year in accelerating the growth trajectory of Rockwell Collins with increased production of new aircraft across our businesses.
And we're entering a period of significant number of new aircraft where we'll be entering service most of which will include increased Rockwell Collins content.
And I'm confident that with our proven operating model we'll convert these market positions into long-term profitable growth and drive increasing shareowner value for years to come.
Well with that very strong foundation we're about to add a very important growth platform accelerator through the acquisition of ARINC.
This acquisition will advance our vision of becoming the leader in aviation information management.
We have both an integration team and a synergy capture team doing the detailed planning and identifying opportunities right now.
And while there's still a lot of work to do I can tell you I'm really excited about what I see on both fronts.
Let me give you an example of the type of synergies we see with this acquisition.
Today in business aviation flight departments they have to use multiple services from multiple suppliers with multiple invoicing if they want the best in flight support services.
Our Ascend International Trip Support is already a market leader.
Now we can match it with ARINC Direct's online regional trip support tools which are widely regarded as best in the industry.
Add in ARINC's connectivity services and our flight operation system's scheduling and dispatch software and operators will have a one-stop shop for the best flight planning and operational services.
Plus these tools can all be integrated to share information and work together making it easier to use saving them time and reducing their operating costs all from one source with one invoice.
And this is just one example of the many synergies that we're expecting to result from this acquisition to help drive growth for the long-term future.
Now from a financial perspective we should start seeing the benefits of cost synergies almost immediately.
I expect to see this business grow its EBITDA margins to greater than 20% over the 5-year outlook.
As we bring in some of the revenue synergies I expect additional margin expansion along with double-digit revenue growth.
Now I know you're all starving for more detailed disclosure on ARINC but the fact of the matter is we don't own them yet.
The government shutdown has delayed the timing of the close of the transaction but we're still hopeful we will see the necessary approvals by the end of the quarter.
At that time we plan to update our 2014 guidance and we're planning an investor conference to give you more details on ARINC as well as provide a broader update on the longer-term outlook for Rockwell Collins overall.
I look forward to that opportunity.
So with that let me turn the call over to Patrick for some additional details on our financial information.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
Let's get started by first reviewing our results for the total company that are shown on Slide 3.
Total company sales for the quarter came in at $1.25 billion a 1% decrease from last year.
Net income increased 15%.
While earnings per share increased 21%.
Fourth quarter fiscal year 2013 earnings per share increased to $1.28 compared to $1.06 the same quarter last year as the company continued to execute its capital deployment strategy through its share repurchase program the fourth quarter of 2013 benefited from the absence of a restructuring and asset impairment charge in 2012 and that was partially offset by higher employee incentive compensation costs in 2013.
Turning to Slide 4.
We have the fourth quarter results for Commercial Systems which reported revenues of $583 million up 3% from last year.
Aftermarket revenue grew $15 million or 6% to $254 million driven primarily by retrofits related to regulatory mandate upgrades.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $3 million or 1% to $310 million.
Sales to business and regional OEMs increased from higher deliveries for the Bombardier Global and Challenger aircraft partially offset by fewer deliveries for Cessna business jets.
Sales to air transport OEMs declined due to lower military HUD sales and lower engineering billings partially offset by increases in 787 hardware deliveries.
Now Commercial Systems operating earnings were $122 million or 20.9% of sales compared to operating earnings of $122 million or 21.6% of sales in the fourth quarter last year.
Operating margins decreased 70 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2013 as the benefit from higher sales volume was more than offset by higher employee incentive compensation costs and higher company-funded research and development expense.
Excluding the impact of these items incremental margins were greater than 50% for the quarter.
On Slide 5 Government Systems revenue declined 5% to $669 million.
Avionics sales increased $10 million or 3% primarily due to higher international tanker transport hardware sales partially offset by lower -- the impact of lower simulator sales.
Communication products sales declined $28 million or 16% resulting from lower satellite and secured communication product sales partially offset by increased deliveries in JTRS Manpack radios.
Surface Solutions sales increased $5 million or 9% from higher international FireStorm targeting system sales.
Finally Navigation Products sales were down 26% to $54 million driven by lower deliveries of airborne and ground navigation products as a result of the withdrawal in Afghanistan and Iraq.
Government Systems fourth quarter operating earnings were $151 million or 22.6% of sales compared to $175 million or 25% last year.
The lower operating earnings were primarily due to lower sales and the impact of higher employee incentive compensation costs.
On Slide 6 we have full year total company financial results for sales net income earnings per share and operating cash flow.
In 2013 sales decreased by 2% as the headwinds in Government Systems were mostly offset by -- with growth in Commercial Systems.
Our year-to-date operating cash flow of $617 million is $83 million or 16% higher than last year due to lower cash payments for income taxes and employee incentive pay partially offset by other changes in working capital.
Slide 7 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment for the year.
Total spend remained relatively consistent at 20% of sales.
Company-funded R&amp;D expense declined as we completed development efforts related to certain next-generation business jet programs.
Customer-funded R&amp;D expense decreased primarily due to the wind down of a number of development programs in Government Systems such as E-6 and E-2D.
Meanwhile we increased investment in preproduction engineering programs mostly related to the Boeing 737 Max program.
Moving to Slide 8.
We show the status of our capital structure.
As of the end of 2013 we had total debt outstanding of $999 million compared to $779 million at the end of 2012.
The increase in short-term debt came from the issuance of commercial paper to fund share repurchases as well as the reclassification of long-term debt that is due in December.
Our current intent is to refinance a portion of our maturing debts in the near term.
We ended the quarter with a debt to total capital ratio of 38% and a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of about 0.9.
As a reminder pending the acquisition of ARINC will further increase our debt leverage but we expect to retain our investment-grade credit rating which will provide us the necessary access to liquidity in a cost-effective manner.
The funded status of our pension plans improved to $585 million over the last year as discount rates came in 92 basis points higher than last year.
Our pension plan assets benefited from strong market returns and the $122 million in contributions we made during the year all contributed to that improvement.
In October subsequent to our year end we made a voluntary contribution to our pension plan of $55 million.
No further contributions are expected or required for the remainder of 2014.
If you turn to Slide 9 we've provided details related to the updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of 2013.
During the year we repurchased 9.8 million shares of stock at an average cost of $58.38 per share and reduced outstanding shares by 5%.
That brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to 86 million shares or $4.3 billion return to shareowners through maintaining an active share repurchase program and we have reduced our outstanding share count by 27%.
Currently our available authorization is $411 million.
Now on to our final slide Slide 10 where we provide details of our fiscal year 2014 financial guidance which is unchanged from when we originally provided it last month.
We expect total sales of $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion with Commercial Systems sales increasing mid-single digits.
We anticipate this growth will come from higher Boeing 787 production regulatory mandates increased business jet cockpit upgrades and air transport spares for 787 and A350 aircraft.
In Government Systems we forecast revenue to decline mid to high single digits.
The decline is primarily due to an anticipated $200 million impact from a full year of sequestration.
The sequestration impact is expected to be partially offset by an increase in international defense sales and increased production in Avionics including the KC-10 and E-6B aircraft upgrades as well as higher deliveries for the JHMCS and JSF helmets.
Full year operating margins are expected to be in the range of 21% to 22% with Government Systems' operating margin stable above 20% and Commercial Systems' operating margins expanding about 50 basis points.
Earnings before income taxes year-over-year is expected to be relatively flat and earnings per share of $4.30 to $4.50 reflects a 300 basis point increase in our tax rate over 2013 due to the anticipated expiration of the R&amp;D tax credit in December.
Cash flow from operations is expected to be $550 million to $650 million.
Now that completes my review of the financial results and projections.
But before we go to Steve for the Q&amp;A section I wanted to hand it back to Kelly for one final comment.
Well thanks Pat.
I want to acknowledge a transition that will be taking place in our investor relations function.
You likely saw an announcement earlier this week that Steve Buesing is moving on to be our Vice President and Controller of our Commercial Systems business.
And I've received a lot of feedback from many of you about the very professional job that Steve has done over the past 3 years.
And I'd like to publicly acknowledge his great work on behalf of our company and our shareowners.
Our new Investor Relations lead will be Ryan Miller.
Ryan comes out of our finance organization where he's held a number of leadership positions over the last 10 years.
And Ryan and Steve have been working together very closely over the last month.
And my expectation is that we won't miss a beat in terms of providing the kind of service that you all expect from our company.
So Steve thank you very much.
And Ryan welcome aboard and good luck.
With that Steve we can move to the Q&amp;A.
Well thanks Kelly.
I appreciate the kind words and I really will miss the interactions with all of you.
[Operator Instructions] So Shannon we're ready for you to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Sam Pearlstein of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit more about the R&amp;D? It looked like you came in less than the $950 million target for the year and then also the growth in preproduction was less than expected.
So what accounted for the change? And then does that push it into '14 where '14 ends up coming in a little bit higher? Sam the answer is yes.
The change in deferred production engineering compared to our expectations was largely a shift from '13 into '14.
And due to I'll say delays in our anticipated start in programs like the 737 MAX I did a little bit of -- C-series that shifted from '13 into '14.
So the aggregate spend hasn't changed.
And what you're going to see whereas -- when we started the year I would have anticipated a pretty significant decline from '13 to '14.
I think it's going to be closer to flat to maybe even slightly up as a result of those delays.
Our next question is from Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I wondered if you might talk a little bit about the Commercial Systems aftermarket and what that may have looked like x the regulatory mandate sales just trends you're seeing there.
It seemed like that might be a little bit light of what you were expecting.
I wonder if you could just discuss the moving pieces a little bit for us.
Yes.
Let me characterize the aftermarket in CS because I think that's an area where it certainly didn't play out as we had originally anticipated as we came into the year.
I'd say there's 2 areas where we saw things different than we expected.
One is in the air transport MRO where we saw the effect of recycling of parts as they were retiring aircraft.
And I think we pretty well predicted the retirements where we had not anticipated was the amount of recycling of equipment.
We saw that early in the year and went -- and updated our models.
And I will tell you that I think we've got that well understood now and we've got that incorporated into our fiscal year '14 guidance.
So I don't think you're going to see that any longer as a headwind.
I think we've understood it and forecasted it going forward.
The second area that has been good is the air transport spares as well as the updated mandates.
We did see what we expected with TCAS and data-link mandates start to drive some revenue in the second half of next year and we're anticipating that will continue to accelerate here in 2014 as well.
So that's kind of our air transport.
In business aviation we first of all always had a kind of a back half loaded plan in business aviation.
We've seen very good takeup in cabin systems upgrades particularly with VVIP-type aircraft so that market's doing quite well.
We have not met our expectations in some of the modifications avionics mods.
The market is growing just not quite as fast as we had anticipated.
We had a pretty aggressive plan this year.
And I'll tell you that like we did with the MRO I've dialed that back to more of a conservative forecast going forward to reflect what we've seen this year.
So I think we've got a good handle on our overall Commercial Systems aftermarket and we derisked the areas that we saw in '13 in our '14 guidance.
Our next question is from Robert Stallard of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Kelly on the ARINC deal I understand you can't give us that much more information.
But I thought one of the things you might be able to get a handle on is the potential deal costs that you are likely to incur.
I was wondering if you could give us any steer on that.
Rob this is Patrick.
Let me give you maybe a little bit more detail.
As we talked in September we were looking at a situation where we were going to be slightly to somewhat dilutive because of the deal costs and because of the integration costs.
We've been working that pretty heavily.
And I would say this if I adjust our results for both ARINC and the impending sale of KOSI I think the net impact of those 2 things are going to be neutral to somewhat accretive to earnings.
So we've improved the results since the last time we talked.
The deal costs I think are going to be in the range of $10 million to $15 million.
Unfortunately they're going up because of the delay in the HSR filing so we've gotten a little bit more legal costs.
But we're seeing those transaction costs kind of in the $10 million to $15 million range.
And I would also tell you from a cash flow perspective as I look at the first 12 months of cash flow coming out of ARINC it's going to add roughly -- probably about 10% to our operating cash flow.
So it's going to be cash flow accretive it's not going to be significantly dilutive to our earnings over the course of the next year and I share Kelly's excitement with respect to the transaction.
Our next question is from Noah Poponak of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about the business jet forecast that's embedded in the '14 outlook.
I guess you provided your '14 outlook in September and cited pressures at Cessna specifically offsetting strength elsewhere.
Then Cessna reported in October and took the Cessna number down again and I guess spoke to even more pressure in the market for them.
Can you just walk us through the dynamics or the math of how that is or it's not fully embedded in your outlook? That would be helpful.
Yes.
So we've seen Cessna come down with rates throughout the year.
When -- we had advanced notice of what Cessna just released when we put together our '14 guidance.
Their -- they've reduced their production rates to almost a de minimis level here going into fiscal '14 and we factored that into our forecast and that's in our guidance.
So we're not anticipating any recovery at Cessna for production rates.
Now what we will see and that's what driving our year-on-year comp is that they've come down throughout the year and so we're going to see a full year next year at that lower rate.
Our next question is from Cai Von Rumohr of Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have to ask ARINC so if it's going to be it and KOSI sale are going to be neutral or slightly positive.
Is essentially the profit on KOSI an offset to the deal costs and integration costs? I think that's a good way to think about it.
I would describe it as a partial offset.
And then the remaining offset of the deal and integration costs would be the earnings from ARINC.
Our next question is from George Shapiro of Shapiro Research.
LLC</strong> I'm going to try to make it in 2 questions.
But one do you -- Kelly the commercial OE was down 1% in the quarter.
I mean virtually everybody else is up near growth of 10%.
So if you could get a little more color on what's happened there and why it's still going to be double -- low double-digit growth in '14.
And just a simple one for you Patrick.
Was incentive comp in the quarter up around $20 million versus last year? Yes.
Let me take the ATS fourth quarter OEM.
We had a muddy comp in the fourth quarter.
The decline is as -- was discussed in the prepared remarks really military HUDs that we delivered last year that created a comp headwind.
And we also had a bunch of cleanup of non-recurring 787 activity at the end of last year.
If you took that out we would have grown at mid-single digit and we did see sequential growth of about 3%.
So the 787 ramp has happened per our plan.
And I think you're going to see us come out of the shoots in '14 comparable to what we guided in terms of OEM growth there in air transport.
So I would look at the fourth quarter as kind of just a muddy comp.
And George to answer your second question the year-over-year it was actually a little bit higher than $20 million but yes about $20 million -- between $20 million and $25 million.
Our next question is from Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Patrick can you tell us a bit about the KOSI sale? Is there any loss of earnings that we have to think about associated with that? There is a -- I would say there's a very modest -- it's not going to change our guidance with respect to Government Systems' operating earnings or operating margin for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kelly back to your kind of opening comment about repositioning the company for growth you gave us kind of the 3 pillars that you're focused on.
One of those that wasn't focused on M&amp;A but clearly you've done a big deal with ARINC.
I'm just curious is ARINC an exemption to your growth strategy or is it an indication that you're thinking about being more acquisitive on a go-forward basis beyond ARINC? Well I talked about expanding our core market and that's -- acquisitions clearly fit in that category for us.
So we were addressing this information management space through both organic development as well as inorganic development before ARINC with the purchase of Air Routing and our flight operations system.
So I see this as just an expansion -- a highly accelerated expansion into our core markets and some relative of close adjacencies that were associated with that.
As I look forward we'll continue to look for those opportunities particularly opportunities that can help us further cement the glue between the Rockwell Collins capabilities and the ARINC capabilities going forward to create further synergies for the business.
Our next question is from Robert Spingarn of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I wanted to look at the biz jet market at a high level structurally.
Just coming out of NBAA and your comments earlier about how -- yes we all know the light jet market is near the bottom.
I wanted to ask if you think there's actually some vulnerability or exposure in the heavy jet market and then overall talk about maybe a switch toward an upgrade-driven opportunity set where the attractiveness of aircraft in the used fleet given their pricing their availability is perhaps driving people away from new aircraft buys.
And so would that be a more interesting part of the market going forward given what's been going on in the new aircraft demand environment? Well a lot of questions there.
Let me address a couple of them.
No we don't see major weakness at the high end of the market so no change in our outlook there.
Nothing coming out of NBAA gives me any pause there.
I also have heard nothing coming out of NBAA that gives me any confidence that the light end is -- that we've got any upside on the light end.
I think it's still pretty soft.
The aftermarket has always been an area where we've been focused.
And we've seen growth this year and we're anticipating growth next year with cabin and flight deck upgrades.
One thing that was announced which is really good news is Nextant announced that they're going to upgrade another -- up to 50 aircraft Hawker 400 upgrades and those are big Pro Line 2 to Pro -- or Pro Line 4 to Pro Line 21 upgrades a very good opportunity for us in the aftermarket.
So yes I think that we're going to continue -- while we're down in the new-build we're going to continue to exploit that aftermarket and we're bringing new products into the market.
We've done that this year and we'll continue to do that going forward to help stimulate some of that demand.
A couple of big announcements we made at NBAA I mentioned we launched our new compact HUD and our EVS sensor with a launch customer down at Embraer.
And we also launched a new -- the first 3D moving map which we think is going to have a lot of good uptake in the aftermarket enhanced wireless capability with our Venue Cabin System.
So these are all the types of things we're doing to help stimulate demand while the new aircraft buys are depressed.
Our next question is from Howard Rubel of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I want to sort of look at last year's numbers for a comp for a second Patrick.
If I'm not mistaken it was a $26 million charge in the year ago.
And I think you talked about $75 million of benefit that should accrue to the company.
And I guess some of it's hard to do because revenues have changed and there's -- nothing's ever perfect.
But can you sort of do a little bit of a walk in how effective you've been at capturing the restructuring benefits that you're talking about? Yes.
We've tracked those restructuring benefits.
Actually on a monthly basis we reported out to Clay and now Kelly.
And I would tell that we have exceeded our expectations with respect to savings slightly but -- so we have tracked it and we have gotten -- we have captured those savings.
I would tell you that the savings are partially in 2013 and will have a full -- the full benefit in 2014.
And you're right you're not going to see it necessarily as margin dilution because some of it had to occur just to stave off the natural margin effects of lower volume.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just a follow-up on that.
So I mean is that why your incrementals -- you can -- you're capturing are on the order of 50%? That's certainly part of it yes.
Our next question is from Ronald Epstein of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So just a really big picture question for you Kelly.
I think we've had a lot of detail so far.
As you've gotten into this new role and taken over this new role as you look forward what do you see as the 1 or 2 or 3 biggest challenges confronting you as the new leadership of the company? Well as I said I think our strategic direction is very sound.
I feel really good about the long-term prospects.
We've won a lot of positions.
We don't have to go win a whole lot of things.
Keeping our team focused at the light at the end of the tunnel in defense is always a challenge.
As they're battling they've done a remarkable job of managing through this defense cycle.
And keeping them focused on those opportunities and they're doing a good job at that.
Executing our business is absolutely critical.
It's one thing to win but we've got to go execute the business.
And we've seen case studies of where if we don't execute what that can -- what can happen.
And so we're very focused on executing delivering on time creating that long-term opportunity and making sure we meet the margin performance of all these new products we're bringing into market.
So we're spending a lot of time focused on that.
But I feel pretty good about the opportunities there.
And I think we're on track to deliver that shareowner value with that market share gain that we've captured.
Research Division</strong> I guess more specifically is there any 1 or 2 things you're currently spending more time on that's kind of key focus of your day now? Well obviously a key part of it is ARINC.
Making sure we integrate ARINC is -- and integrate it right get the cost synergies and put in place the processes and procedures to capture the revenue synergies across our businesses are key priorities for me.
And I'm spending a lot of time with our teams getting prepared for that.
I mean we're going to do that one right.
It's a big one.
It's going to create a lot of value and so that's going to take some energy from our management team to make sure we do that.
Our next question is from David Strauss of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Kelly wanted to follow-up on the business jet and RJ side of the business.
Obviously a little bit surprising that that business is going to be down in its entirety this year given some of the programs you have ramping up C-Series Lear 85 Legacy 500.
Could you talk about where we are with those programs because it doesn't seem like they're helping a lot this year? And I was just going to throw try and slide another one into Patrick real quick.
I just want to know Patrick inventory x preproduction what does inventory do this year? Well we've long said that the real growth there's not going to be a lot of growth in the business aviation market beyond the new aircraft entries.
And as I said in my prepared remarks we've seen very good growth 30% over the last 3 years.
And it's all driven by new aircraft entry.
Unfortunately in 2014 we don't have a lot of tailwind of new entries.
We've got the Lear and the Legacys but they come in pretty late in the year not enough to offset the decline in production.
I mean it's a dramatic decline in production at Cessna.
And unfortunately until we get those airplanes and get a full year of production for the new entries we're just not going to be able to offset that.
And from an inventory perspective we saw a little bit of growth this year.
I would describe most of it as being more timing related than anything else.
As I look at the plan for '14 I think inventories are going to be flat to slightly down in the current -- with our current plan.
Our next question is from Yair Reiner of Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up on the MRO aftermarket.
Can you give us a sense quantitatively has that business been flat? Is it down is it up a bit? And then in your plan for the next year do you anticipate it again being flat or do you expect it to come down a bit? And then just in terms of modeling for next year can you just give us some sense of the quarterly pace of revenue since there are a lot of moving parts these days? Yair the way I'd describe it is the MRO piece of our aftermarket has been up slightly I would say in the low single digits.
And we're projecting pretty much the same environment next year.
A little bit more growth in the air transport side than on the business jet side but we're looking at that kind of low to mid single digit growth on -- in the MRO piece of the aftermarket.
Now that's going to be off compared to the -- what I'll call the discretionary aftermarket where we're going to see better growth in that area in both business jet and in air transport.
Research Division</strong> And then in terms of the quarterly pacing of revenues next year? I think it's going to be pretty much what you saw this year.
I don't -- there isn't going to be a lot of variation at least as we see it today in the growth in Commercial Systems or in the decline in the Government Systems.
The only thing I'd say is you have to -- you always have to watch it -- watch for the aftermarket because that tends to be the lumpiest piece of the business and particularly the discretionary aftermarket.
Our next question is from Richard Safran of Buckingham Research.
Just a very quick question here I know a lot has been asked.
On the $170 million in preproduction engineering costs I know you said it was driven by the MAX and business jets.
I wanted to know if there was any 777X in there.
If you think that Boeing launches the 777X in November if you think there's any upside to that number in 2014 or do you think that probably rolls in in '15? Well there is no 777X in there yet.
We haven't -- Boeing hasn't made any decisions in our commodity areas on the 777X.
And we are actively doing some trade study work with them but that's very low level from an expense perspective.
We would expect that they'll be running competitions over the next 6 months.
And so we wouldn't start any material development in our commodity scheme on 777X in fiscal '14.
It will probably be more in '15.
Our next question is from Jason Gursky of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I wanted to ask you on the IFE.
You mentioned that in your prepared remarks and you had a press release earlier this week with just [ph] -- and you've got a launch customer for it.
Can you just kind of update us now that it's out there on what your expectations are with regard to the size of the market potential growth there what the pipeline looks like and then maybe just lastly what the product looks like? I noticed that in its initial one you've got some in-seat IFE and some overhead IFE that's going on.
And just kind of what your expectations are going forward with the mix in that product and what you think you're going to be selling? Well first of all there's no change in our overall strategy of focusing on single-aisle in-flight entertainment and exiting and not focusing on the twin aisle.
The PAVES product is -- has been a very successful product in the single-aisle market and that market is going through a transition.
Historically it's been an overhead with drop-down displays not in-seat displays in the single-aisle market.
We're seeing that move to an in-seat primarily at least initially that in-seat will be more in the front end of the airplane in the first class.
But over the long term we would expect to see in-seat video capability across the single-aisle market.
And that's why we've introduced this new product which is an in-seat video capability.
And the neat thing is technology is allowing us to do that in a much more efficient way than in the past and provide a much more reliable solution.
So we actually see that as both a good growth opportunity for positions with the narrow-body production for a bit but also as potential retrofit opportunities going forward.
Our next question is from Michael Ciarmoli of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Kelly just to actually stay on that topic we're actually seeing part of a move in this IFE kind of market especially on the narrow-body with either portable displays kind of iPad -- iPods-like iPad-like I mean or bring your own device.
How did that PAVES kind of fit into that market? Well I think it's -- that those decisions are kind of on a customer-by-customer basis.
Some view that the iPads and -- are going to provide the service that they want.
I think that the airlines that are focused on using the IFE system to sell product don't want to rely on someone else to bring it into the airplane.
And so you're going to see them use that as a venue to upsell in -- to their end customers.
We -- again we think that initially you'll see the in-seat capability go into most single-aisle aircraft going forward in the business and first class and then maybe a split market in terms of the overhead versus in-seat for coach going forward.
Now you will see continued focus on connectivity and providing connectivity capability so that people can bring their mobile devices on the airplane.
I don't think anybody's going to stop doing that.
But I think we'll still see take-up in in-seat capability as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And Patrick if I could slip one more.
Incremental margins on the 787 will those still be a drag as you guys get to kind of the 10 per month.
How should we think about that? It's going to be a drag to the incremental margins slightly just a little bit.
I mean it's going to be well in excess of our operating margins but a little bit lower than our traditional incremental margins for the next year or so.
Our next question is from Joe Nadol of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I'd like to dig in -- or Patrick dig in a little bit to the defense outlook that you guys are I guess down mid to high is what you're saying this year.
In the past you've said -- or Clay has said I believe that this was hoped -- you guys were hoping this would be a trough year.
I was wondering if you still believe that or if you think there might be more pressure in '15.
A lot of the bigger primes seems likely that 2015 is going to be a down year just on -- due to the late cycle versus early cycle nature of their businesses.
And then just within '14 looking in defense what are the moving parts that you're looking at? How big is international now? What are the risks there that things slipped out of your plan? And then what are the big competitions? I know the Manpack competition is probably a big one for you guys.
What else is in there that you're looking at? Well yes.
So let me characterize the -- maybe 2014.
So we put sequestration into the plan.
We've focused that at about -- or forecasted that at about $200 million.
And then we've guided in the mid to high single digit.
As I look at that first of all our business is much different than the large OEMs.
We go into the year with roughly 30% of our sales for that particular year anticipated or not in backlog so we're much shorter cycle business.
And we've seen the impact of these budget cuts faster than the OEMs.
But the good news is as we're coming out of that they'll be burning off prior year money while we'll be focused on current year money.
And we'll come out of that growth a little faster than them.
As I look at our next year's plan again we've put sequestration into it.
If you look at 2013 we actually performed a little bit better.
We ended up about $70 million versus $120 million.
I think there's one causal there is that DOD did spend a lot of prior year unallocated funds to offset some of the sequester.
And I don't think we're going to see that in 2014.
But I think as you look at it we've got it pretty well sized.
And if I look at what the risks and opportunities are there's a couple of big programs that I'm watching.
You mentioned one HMS.
Our plan is that we will go to an additional low rate initial production award for '14 and go to full-scale competition for important deliveries that will happen in '15.
That award is not yet made and the Army is debating as to whether they want to combine production or low rate initial production.
So that's one that we're really watching and could have some implications to the year.
The other is the KC-10 program.
And you've probably seen some press where the Air Force is considering whether they retire the KC -- accelerate the retirement of the KC-10 fleet.
We've just completed the development of the CNS/ATM upgrade for the KC-10s.
And in fiscal '14 we'll start the production and modification.
And if they would either delay that or cancel that program that would have some implications to our plan.
So as I kind of think of that I'd say if we get hit with those programs and they don't happen we'll probably be more to the high side of our guidance.
If those programs continue to go forward as we currently plan then we'll probably be more to the low side of the guidance in defense.
And I think it's fair to say that we still view 2014 as being the trough here for defense where I think it's going to flatten out in '15.
Now there's a lot of -- there's still a lot of uncertainty to the environment.
But I think it is fair to say that we are a shorter-cycle business so I think we're going to feel the pain earlier and hopefully get out of it quicker.
Our next question is from John Godyn of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Patrick I certainly can appreciate how ARINC is going to be a bit of a headwind to your capital returns to shareholders but you sort of mentioned how accretive it's going to be on a cash flow basis.
And of course there's a good slide in the presentation here on how important repurchases have been over the years for Collins.
So I was hoping that you could just sort of give us an update both on your philosophy as well as any metrics leverage or liquidity that are top of mind when just think about scaling your repurchase your capital returns in a kind of a post-ARINC world.
Yes I would say that first of all our capital deployment philosophy hasn't changed.
We've always said that we want to grow the business and absent growth opportunities want to make sure we return capital to our shareowners.
And we've played that out over -- since I've been in this role.
Obviously the one difference is we had a significant acquisition opportunity in ARINC.
And therefore it had a fairly significant call on our capital.
As I look forward about -- with respect to our capital structure we've said that we are committed to paying off the commercial paper portion of the ARINC deal over a short period of time.
I look at it as being about 2 years.
How much of that is it's about $500 million of the total acquisition.
So we're just going to still have a small budget for share repurchases over the next couple of years.
And then I would say as we get out of that period you'll see -- absent other acquisition opportunities you'll see us step up share repurchases beyond that.
Our next question is from Peter Arment of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I know this will probably be addressed in your investor conference but I wanted to ask about ARINC.
The original discussion I think discussion was this was going to be a real great kind of revenue synergy story.
But it sounds like you've -- talking about cost synergies and getting EBITDA margins up into -- above 20%.
Could you maybe at a high level kind of discuss maybe what's -- whether you've identified some significant cost synergies and how that kind of paces out over that 5-year plan? Well the cost synergies come in earlier than the revenue synergies.
So that's the real focus.
I would say don't misinterpret my words here.
We still see a lot of revenue growth synergy opportunity but we also see those cost synergies.
They're primarily around integration of the corporate functions.
Integrating them into our business model will provide us real quick savings.
And combining some of what they're doing in their business aviation market with ARINC Direct and what we're doing in the business aviation with Ascend will provide us some pretty quick synergy opportunities going forward.
So those are the things.
As I look we put out the pro forma 2012 EBITDA to give you some indication of where they are.
You got to kind of project that through 2013.
The cost synergies will hit real soon.
And then we do have a few real immediate revenue synergies that we'll be banging on right away but most of those take a little time.
We may have to develop some products or some software to bring those in.
And those will feather in and provide that incremental growth in the out years.
Our last question is from Ken Herbert of Canaccord.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to follow-up on the 2014 guidance specifically within commercial transport on the spare parts side.
I know initial provisioning seems like it's been a lot slower for the last couple of years than expected.
Can you just talk about the assumptions in '14 for spare parts sales specifically in support of provisioning and then maybe just provide a little more granularity on Intertrade? And specifically Kelly you talked about some of your -- won't be a headwind in '14 because you've adjusted -- it's reflected in guidance on the recycled parts side.
But maybe what are those assumptions and how do you see that playing out over the course of the year? Well the air transport spares will be driven by new aircraft entering to service.
And we've got 787 spares in the plan that's been a growth driver for us.
It's probably about the same.
It's driven by the number of new customers that Boeing has that really drives the initial provisioning.
And the new customers in '14 are about the same as what we saw in 2013.
We will probably get our first new customer provisioning for the A350 at the end of the year.
So we're looking towards that going forward.
I'm sorry the second part of your question? Intertrade.
Our Intertrade business is growing.
We're on the other side of this recycling phenomenon with our Intertrade business.
And we're buying aircraft doing teardown of those aircraft and moving those parts into the marketplace and we're seeing good growth.
We saw growth in 2013 there and we're projecting similar growth going forward in '14.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Steve Buesing for any closing remarks.
Thanks Shannon.
We plan to file our Form 10-K in a few weeks so please see that document for additional notes and disclosures.
I wanted to thank all of you for joining us and participating on the conference call today.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thanks for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins First Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Candace and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we'll be presenting today on the website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Well this has been a productive and exciting quarter in which we made significant progress in accelerating our return to growth both in our core business as well as by expanding in emerging high-growth areas of focus for Rockwell Collins.
And while there were quite a few highlights across our business 3 really stand out in my mind: First we closed on our acquisition of ARINC on December 23 serving as a catalyst for creation of our new Information Management Services business segment and I'll outline that further for you here today.
Second as you know we included the impact of sequestration in our original guidance for the year.
We now expect the recent budget agreement will reduce this impact resulting in an improved 2014 outlook for our Government Systems business.
And third as anticipated the successful ramp-up in production rates for the 787 has resulted in strong air transport OEM and aftermarket performance.
And I think all 3 of these developments provide increased momentum for accelerating our return to growth.
As for our first quarter financial performance our results were in line with our expectations as we generated modest top line sales growth and maintained 20% total segment operating margins in spite of revenue declines in our Government Systems business and the continued lack of recovery in business aviation.
Looking specifically at our Government Systems business we continue to manage the impact of the overall U.S.
DoD budget cuts.
However as I mentioned our outlook is improving in light of the current budgetary environment.
The Murray-Ryan Bipartisan Budget Act signed late last month sets total federal discretionary spending above the sequestration level.
And as a result defense spending in the U.S.
will rise about $22 billion in 2014 and about another $9 billion in 2015 from the anticipated sequester level.
And as a result we've increased our fiscal 2014 Government Systems outlook to now be down mid-single digits an improvement from the mid- to high-single-digit decline we previously anticipated.
This also further reinforces our belief that our Government business will be flat in 2015 before returning to some modest level of growth.
Turning now to Commercial Systems.
We realized the strength in air transport OEM sales primarily on the higher hardware delivery rates for the Boeing 787.
Unfortunately this was largely offset by the expected headwinds in the light end of biz jets where OEM sales continue to struggle.
As I look forward on OEM we expect overall air transport revenue growth to remain robust with Boeing now producing 10 787s per month and A350 beginning to come online later this year.
On the other hand we don't see a biz jet recovery in the near term with OEM sales expected to be down by low single digits for the year.
We do expect to return to OEM growth in 2015 when we'll see an increased cadence of new aircraft equipped with our Pro Line Fusion avionics beginning to enter their entry into service including the Lear 85 and the Legacy 450 and 500 aircraft.
And I might add that we've recently expanded our content at Embraer with the selection of our Head-up Guidance System and Enhanced Vision System sensors options on both the Legacy 450 and 500 aircraft.
Turning now to commercial aftermarket.
We saw strong growth driven primarily by retrofit and spares where we saw higher sales from regulatory mandates cabin updates and delivery of spares to support the 787 entry into service.
We do expect the aftermarket sales growth to taper off to the mid-single digits as the effect of the lumpy 787 spares give way to a more sustained growth level.
Now let me now shift to what I'm sure many of you are looking forward to and that's our outlook on ARINC.
Well first of all let me remind you why we bought ARINC.
We have a vision of becoming a leader in the fast-growing aviation information management space and ARINC substantially accelerates that vision.
This deal brings together 2 great companies with complementary capabilities that when combined will allow us to provide a broader complement of services to our customers.
With the close of ARINC we've now formed our new Information Management Service business which we'll refer to as IMS which combines ARINC and our flight services business that was formally a part of Commercial Systems.
Together this new business provides the industry's broadest range of information management services and let me characterize this a little bit for you.
First in the commercial aviation or airline market our business consists primarily of voice and data communication services between the air and the ground.
This data link service is called GLOBALink and it's used by many airlines throughout the world.
The catalyst for growth in GLOBALink business is number one the growing installed base of aircraft but more importantly the enhanced data demand of the new modern aircraft.
We also provide airline-to-airline ground messaging services called AviNet and that will also increase in revenue as passengers' traffic grows.
The second area is in business aviation and our business here includes global flight planning trip support cockpit and cabin voice and data communications flight tracking weather information and ground support services and is made up of our Ascend flight services business and ARINC Direct which are industry leaders in international and regional trip support services.
The third area is airports including communication and information systems designed to ease congestion and improve airport efficiency through passenger check-in baggage boarding and access control solutions.
And then finally the fourth area is transportation and security which includes train dispatching information systems as well as mission-critical security systems for nuclear power plants and defense-related facilities.
So for the 9 months that we'll own ARINC in fiscal 2014 we expect sales in the range of $400 million to $430 million.
We also expect IMS to deliver EBITDA margins of about 20% in fiscal 2014.
The commercial and the business aviation those first 2 sections that I talked about will collectively make up about 2/3 of the Information Management Services revenues and 75% to 80% of the EBITDA.
It's also the highest growth area which is organically growing double digits.
The combination of our airports transportation and security fill in the remaining 1/3 of the business and it's growing a little slower but still a respectable mid-single digit.
All in we see the IMS business before synergies growing in high single digits.
And as I stated previously we expect that overall growth to increase to double digits based on a number of revenue synergies that we've already started working on.
Early on these synergies will primarily be in those first 2 areas in commercial aviation and business aviation and I'm expecting the revenues to be about $10 million annually beginning in 2015 so pretty quickly ramping up to greater than $50 million per year by the end of our 5-year outlook.
Now that we've closed and had a chance to get our teams together and engage in a closer look at the business I'm even more confident in our ability to expand our Information Management Services business.
We do plan to roll out more details of this new business segment and where we expect to capture these revenue synergies at our Investor Day on March 6 and Ryan is going to talk a little bit more about the Investor Day at the end of the call here today.
So let me bring this all back together.
When we issued our guidance late last year we accommodated for the potential headwinds that we saw.
Since then we've not seen any significant additional risks.
And as I outlined today there's reason to be more optimistic.
As a result I'm pleased to report that we've increased our full year fiscal guidance for fiscal 2014 based on the improved outlook for Government Systems and inclusion of ARINC in our estimate.
This revised guidance includes sales in the range of $4.95 billion to $5.05 billion an increase of $450 million from the previous guidance of $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion and that's an increase of 7% to 10% from fiscal year '13.
So in summary I'm excited about the opportunities that our new Information Management Service business will bring.
We continue to make progress on our international growth strategy and we see stability coming in Government Systems.
And in Commercial Systems the air transport market continues to be an area of strong growth and it's only a matter of time before business aviation recovers.
So I'm seeing tangible evidence that gives me confidence in the long-term growth of this company.
With that let me turn it over to Patrick to take you through the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the first quarter of 2014.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company first quarter sales earnings per share net income and operating cash flow.
Total company sales for the quarter increased $9 million or 1% compared to first quarter 2013 sales.
Our first quarter sales included $6 million of inorganic ARINC revenue.
Net income was about flat for the quarter as a lower effective tax rate driven by a tax planning strategy and a gain on the sale of Kaiser Optical Systems were offset by ARINC transaction costs.
Earnings per share increased $0.02 to $0.96 due primarily to our share repurchase program.
Looking next to our operating cash flow for the first quarter we used $38 million of cash compared to cash flow generation of $63 million during the same period last year.
The lower cash flow for the quarter was due primarily to $60 million of higher employee incentive pay and $37 million of higher income tax payments.
As we turn to Slide 4 note that we've reclassified sales related to our flight services business previously included in Commercial Systems to our new Information Management Services or IMS segment.
Sales related to flight services were about $10 million in the first quarter of last year.
With that said Commercial Systems achieved revenue of $521 million in the quarter up 3% from $506 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $4 million or 1% to $286 million primarily due to increased deliveries for the Boeing 787 aircraft which was mostly offset by lower deliveries at the light end of business jets.
Aftermarket sales increased $19 million or 10% to $216 million due to higher air transport retrofits regulatory airspace mandates spares and service and support.
Commercial Systems' operating earnings increased 6% to $111 million in 2014 with operating margins expanding 50 basis points from 20.8% to 21.3%.
The increase in operating earnings and margin was primarily due to the higher sales.
Now moving on to Slide 5.
Government Systems' revenue decreased by 3% to $532 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2014 driven by the wind down of development programs as well as lower sales due to troop withdrawals in the Middle East.
These headwinds were partially offset by increased hardware deliveries on both domestic and international programs.
Now looking specifically at our product categories.
Sales of avionics increased $2 million or 1% from higher deliveries for the E-6B aircraft upgrade program as well as increases from a number of international programs.
However these increases were mostly offset by lower KC-46 and KC-10 development program sales.
Communication product sales declined $15 million or 11% primarily due to lower satellite and secure communication product and service sales resulting from the troop drawdown partially offset by higher JTRS Manpack radios.
Surface solution sales increased $8 million or 16% from higher international FireStorm targeting system sales partially offset by a reduction of effort on the Common Range Integrated Instrumentation Systems development program.
Finally sales of navigation products declined by $9 million or 19% resulting from fewer deliveries of our handheld GPS receivers.
Government Systems' first quarter operating earnings decreased $6 million to $101 million resulting in an operating margin of 19% compared to 19.6% in the first quarter of last year.
The decreased operating earnings and margin resulted from the lower sales volume.
Turning to Slide 6.
You see our new segment Information Management Services which includes ARINC as well as our flight services business.
During the first quarter ARINC contributed $6 million of revenue which represented a partial week of revenue since the date of acquisition.
All remaining revenues are related to the legacy Rockwell Collins flight service business.
Slide 7 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the first quarter of the year.
Total spend decreased from 21.4% of sales to 20.4% due primarily to lower customer-funded R&amp;D as certain development programs in Government Systems wind down.
During the quarter company-funded R&amp;D spend decreased $6 million and preproduction engineering spend increased $7 million as more effort was incurred on deferred programs such as the 737 MAX and CSeries.
Looking to the full year we still expect to spend approximately $950 million in total R&amp;D.
Now moving to Slide 8.
We show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the first quarter compared to the end of last year.
During the quarter we issued $1.1 billion of long-term debt.
Approximately $900 million of the long-term debt issuance was used for the ARINC acquisition and the remainder was used to refinance $200 million of debt that matured in December.
The balance of the ARINC acquisition was funded with commercial paper and we plan to pay down the commercial paper balance over the course of the next few years.
At the end of fiscal 2013 we had debt-to-EBITDA of approximately 0.9.
With the issuance of long-term debt and the incremental commercial paper in the first quarter to fund the ARINC acquisition we are currently at about 2.4.
I believe this level of debt still provides us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs and I expect it to improve over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally comes later in the year and we pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
The updated status of our share repurchase program as of the end of the first quarter is detailed on Slide 9.
During the first quarter we repurchased 235 000 shares at an average cost of $71.48 which brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 86 million shares or a $4.3 billion return to share owners.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was about $395 million.
So now I'll go over our fiscal year 2014 expectations for ARINC on Slide 10.
As we previously disclosed we plan to divest ARINC's Aerospace Systems Engineering and Support business also called ASES which provides military integration and modification services.
The results of ASES are treated as a discontinued operation.
I also want to remind you that these financial projections are subject to change as we complete the purchase price allocation for ARINC.
However we did want to provide you visibility into the expected impact of this acquisition on our fiscal '14 financial guidance.
We expect ARINC sales for fiscal 2014 which includes the period from December 23 2013 to September 30 2014 to be in the range of $400 million to $430 million which is about a 7% increase over sales from the same period last year for ARINC.
We expect adjusted EBITDA margins for ARINC to be about 20% in fiscal 2014 or about $85 million.
Compared to the same period last year this represents roughly a 10% growth in adjusted EBITDA.
From an earnings per share perspective we expect the combined impact of transaction-related items for ARINC the gain on the sale of KOSI along with the income from operations to ARINC will be slightly accretive to total company results.
We are also expecting about $50 million of incremental operating cash flow from ARINC in fiscal year '14.
Looking ahead to 2015 we expect that ARINC will be increasingly accretive to earnings per share and drive stable cash flows along with top line sales growth in the high single digits.
As we have previously disclosed we believe that taking into account longer-term revenue synergies we can sustain double-digit sales growth and EBITDA margins in excess of 20%.
We also expect incremental margins for ARINC to rival those of our commercial business because ARINC's [indiscernible] have ample capacity to grow revenue with relatively minor capital investments.
Now I'd like to turn to our final slide Slide 11 where we provide the details of our updated fiscal year 2014 financial guidance.
Sales are now expected to be in the range of $4.95 billion to $5.05 billion an increase of $450 million from the previous guidance range of $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion.
As I mentioned previously ARINC's sales are estimated to be in the range of $400 million to $430 million.
In addition expectations for Government System sales have improved due to the passage of the Murray-Ryan Bipartisan Budget Act.
We now expect Government System sales to be down mid-single digits compared to the prior guidance of being down mid- to high-single digits.
We've revised total segment operating margins from a range of 21% to 22% to a range of 20% to 21%.
This reduction is due to the inclusion of ARINC.
ARINC's operating margins are expected to be 9% to 10% in fiscal year 2014 and will be negatively impacted by intangible asset amortization and integration costs.
Our outlook for earnings per share is now expected to be in the range of $4.35 to $4.55 primarily due to the improved Government Systems outlook.
Our outlook for operating cash flow has increased by $50 million and is now expected to be in the range of $600 million to $700 million primarily due to the incremental operating cash flows from ARINC.
Capital expenditures have increased $20 million to $160 million due to the inclusion of ARINC in our guidance.
And that completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we are now ready to open the line.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The first one I had I guess is on ARINC and the 20% EBITDA margins.
I think back in 2012 the stand-alone business that you now have may have been somewhere closer to 23% or 24%.
And so I'm just curious what has happened since then? Did it need to be reinvested in or something else as it applies to the accounting? And then the other question similarly is do you have a ballpark estimate for proceeds on the divestiture of the 15%? Yes let me take that Myles.
This is Patrick.
As it relates to the difference between what you saw in FY '12 and what you're seeing today I would characterize the difference as being mainly due to 2 things: One is their accounting process and practices are a little bit different than ours.
They had had some accounting changes that benefited 2012 that were non-recurring.
And so some of it is just accounting.
That's about half of it.
The other half of it relates to the fact that there are certain shared costs between our continuing business and our discontinued business that we'll need to take out over time.
That's reflected in some of the cost synergies that we have talked about in the past.
And so I would anticipate that reflected as future EBITDA improvement.
So it really doesn't reflect any incremental investment on our behalf but more of those 2 factors.
As it relates to proceeds from the sale of the ASES business we're way too preliminary in the process to speculate on that.
As you can see in the press release and you'll see in the Q later today -- or tomorrow actually we're holding the net book value at about $74 million but that's no indication of where our expected proceeds are going to be.
And your next question comes from Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> On ARINC Kelly just to take a step back on sales growth looking at mid to high I guess single-digit growth this year then accelerating with some of the synergies I know you don't want to get too far in front of this because you have your investor meeting coming up but could you help flesh out exactly what is driving the top line growth? Because it doesn't look like it's been growing at that rate in the past several years.
Is it market growth is it market share gains you're expecting sell-through to customers new services et cetera? Well it really is market growth.
What we're seeing particularly as I mentioned in the data comm area is the newer airplanes are coming into service and they're consuming a lot more data capability because they've got the onboard systems to communicate with the ground.
So really what we're seeing is the lift in just the new airplanes coming in the market driving that initially.
And again we see that as high-single-digit growth just with that organic business.
Research Division</strong> Has it been growing at that rate at the last several years? Or is this an acceleration? The -- certainly as we're looking at 2013 to 2014 we're seeing growth.
Part of the growth is masked I think.
And I don't know what data you're looking at Joe but part of it is masked by the fact that the ASES business which has almost entirely defense exposure has been declining during that same time period.
So if you take that and treat that separately I think you'll see the underlying core growth of the ARINC commercial business is growing pretty nicely.
But Joe let me answer that question specifically.
Yes it is growing and we're very pleased with the results this past year.
So that core business is currently growing and we expect it to continue to grow.
And your next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a question around the government -- the Government Systems margins.
At 19% it's obviously at the lower end of where we've been in the past couple of quarters.
But I wondered if you can kind of walk us through maybe some of the moving pieces there if it was related to mix or how the headwinds and incentive comp may have disproportionately hit that segment and the R&amp;D helping Commercial Systems.
So any color you can help give us there into what drove that number would be helpful.
Yes Carter I think if you look at the margins quarter-over-quarter this year to last year first quarter is obviously always our lowest margin quarter just because of the volume.
But if you couple that with higher incentive compensation expense because we had that cumulative catch-up in the second quarter of last year if you normalize for that that would add about 0.5 points of margin to our first quarter results.
So the underlying operating performance year-over-year was pretty pretty stable for the Government Systems business.
Research Division</strong> No real differences in mix? No.
And your next question comes from Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Just wanted to focus just for a moment here on your better outlook on defense.
Could you be a little bit more specific? Your improved outlook what actually got better as a result of Murray-Ryan? What specifically where -- maybe if you could talk about what programs were impacted et cetera? Well let me remind you how we put our guidance together.
We did a top-level macro analysis assuming that sequestration was going to be implemented in this fiscal year just like we had done the prior fiscal year.
And from that analysis we determined the top-level impact that we then discounted out of our forecast.
This has improved from that.
So we do not have the program-level detail yet.
That's coming out and we're combing through that.
But what we've just done is adjusted in the same way we established that discount to begin with.
We now have adjusted that based on a top-level analysis of these new budget numbers.
And your next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I have an accounting question Patrick.
It's sort of related to ARINC.
If I sum the goodwill and intangibles it appears to exceed the purchase price of ARINC.
Could you walk through that? And then related to this as you now have a new business segment how can you -- can you spend any funds really adding to it externally? Or is it all going to be internal growth? I would say this.
With respect to the reconciliation of the ARINC purchase price I would say yes we do have almost kind of net asset -- net tangible assets of 0.
So it's a pretty asset-light business and not a very working capital-intensive business.
I think the fact that it's in information technology heavily service oriented sort of leads to that sort of thing.
So yes we're going to end up with a disproportionate amount of the purchase price allocated towards goodwill and intangible assets.
And as it relates to the second part of your question -- what was the second part of your question Howard? Research Division</strong> I mean typically as you've sort of created a new business segment you've not only grown internally but Patrick you've clearly added externally.
How you're going to weigh that versus sort of the constraints that Moody's has put on your credit rating? Well I would say this.
We -- when we met with Moody's we indicated that we still had an appetite for doing acquisitions and they understood that.
I would tell you this.
I think that right now the -- our focus is on the synergies that we can drive between ARINC and Rockwell Collins right now.
However there's certainly -- it certainly does provide a platform for additional acquisitions.
And in our 5-year plan we have accommodated some level of acquisition obviously not to the dollar level of the ARINC acquisition more in accordance with kind of our past practices of niche acquisitions.
And your next question comes from Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to switch to the aftermarket.
Kelly could you talk or parse out a little bit the aftermarket growth in air transport? Obviously 787 spares were important there but you also talked about retrofits and mandates.
Yes.
So first of all let me start with MRO because as you recall we saw the effect last year of some tear downs and parts going back into the system that had some impact on us and we forecasted that that was going to continue.
And I would say our MRO has performed based on our model pretty well as we expected.
So I still think that's going to be low-single-digit growth.
I think that's about the right way to look at our MRO.
The 787 spares are always lumpy and they're big -- usually big dollars.
And so that's why I mentioned we got some spares that actually came in a little faster than we anticipated.
We had them in our plan but we had them later in the year.
So we'll see that continue to be lumpy as we go forward.
And then we'll probably get our initial tranche of spares on the A350 right towards the end of our fiscal year as that airplane moves into service.
In terms of retrofit it's all around the mandates.
We're seeing strong demand for the TCAS and Link 2000 activity.
That's [indiscernible].
Research Division</strong> So if you -- Kelly if you took out the 787 is the growth rate in that high -- mid- to high-single-digit range for everything else? Or that's the wrong way to look about it -- look at it? I think the MRO is a little lower and the retrofits and spares is around that level.
And your next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Kelly so on Government Systems does this budget deal -- I think you guys had expected flat next year and then we grow beyond that.
Does the budget deal change your view of that? And then as a follow-up can you talk about where you are on CSeries with Bombardier pushing the program out to the right? Yes.
Well let me address the first one.
The -- as far as the budget deal as I said in my prepared remarks this gives us more confidence that we'll get to flat in 2015 as the budget environment is better than what we had previously forecasted.
So yes I'm more bullish that we'll be able to get to flat and get this government business starting to return to growth.
So incrementally we're still dealing with the overall budget environment.
But again incrementally it's better than what we had forecasted with sequester.
As far as CSeries development delays on new aircraft programs are not a new phenomenon for any of us.
We're focused on getting our work done and supporting Bombardier and I can tell you we're aligned with their revised schedule.
You'll have to talk about Bombardier about what the critical path is because they did not disclose that activity and why they've moved the schedule but we're working with them to ensure that we mature our systems so that entry into service goes as good as possible.
I might also add David I don't see any material impact to our spend in 2014 associated with the CSeries delay.
We had some of that delay baked into our plan going forward.
Where we'll see it is more in the revenue impact and that will be 2015 where we'll have to take a close look at the CSeries revenue depending on the status of the program.
And your next question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee &amp; Leach.
Research Division</strong> Just Kelly here's a quick one on the business jet aftermarket.
We've seen obviously that market has been slow to recover at the low end.
When do you expect to see I guess -- you've described I guess the turn where you've got some selected new models coming online but the broader activity that we could see the aftermarket activity overall returning to higher single-digit growth? Well we're actually seeing pretty nice growth right now in cabin upgrades our new Venue system which is a digital high-definition audio-video system particularly in VVIP kind of aircraft and we expect that to continue.
In terms of major avionics mods that's been pretty soft.
I'm looking for increases in the second half of this fiscal year.
The next [indiscernible] purchase of additional Hawker 400s is a good example of a retrofit opportunity because that's a Pro Line 21 upgrade which will drive some growth into the second half of the year.
And your next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on ARINC.
And as you're looking out over the next several years I'd just be curious to know if there are any regulatory changes on the horizon that would lead to an acceleration of revenue growth at ARINC.
Well the whole next-gen activity or CSAR activity in Europe will drive additional digital communication between air and the ground.
And that communication will go over the ARINC and SITA networks.
So yes we see those activities driving additional growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a quick follow-up question.
Do you have any updated thoughts on -- you mentioned briefly some initial thoughts on the biz jet recovery and that it will eventually happen.
But as you're looking at that market today in light of some recent consolidation there has your opinion at all kind changed of over the last 3 or 4 months here on where we are in that recovery and the potential inflection point on it? No.
I'd say there is really no news from the OEMs.
So still pretty sluggish -- a pretty sluggish environment at the low end.
So we're just going to have to wait it out and see when we start to see a recovery.
I'll also say that we'll start to see that recovery or the OEMs will be reporting that recovery in terms of new order outlook.
It's going to take a while for that backlog increase to turn into rate increases.
I would suspect they'd want a healthy backlog before they start increasing rates.
So again we aren't calling for a snapback in this.
What we're calling for is some growth in 2015 mostly driven by new platform entries not existing rate increases.
And your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Did you change the capitalized preproduction engineering in terms of your assumptions for the remainder of the year? Just because if I look at this first quarter run rate obviously annually it gets you slightly above the $170 million.
I'm just trying to think about it is it -- should we look at it as similar in every quarter? Does it ramp up and then peak somewhere in the beginning -- in the middle of the year and then start to ramp down? Patrick I don't know if you can help with that.
Yes.
Sam we haven't changed our overall forecast for deferred preproduction engineering.
I would say there has been some variability around our ability to predict that.
And yes it'll change from quarter to quarter based upon the relative mix of what our engineering workforce is working on whether they're working on company-funded customer-funded or deferred engineering-type projects.
So you will see some variability around the amount we need to capitalize on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
So we're sticking to our $170 million forecast for deferred engineering.
Is there some variation around that? I think quite possibly.
And your next question comes from Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So your company-funded R&amp;D was down $6 million in the quarter and yet your full year you're looking for the total R&amp;D spend up $30 million to $950 million.
At one point I think you were looking for company R&amp;D to be about flat.
Can you give us some sense follow-up to Sam's question if in fact you're still looking for deferred engineering where it was? Are we going to see any pickup -- or are we still looking for flat in terms of customer R&amp;D and company R&amp;D? Short answer is yes we are expecting that.
And what I would say is what you're going to see on a quarter-to-quarter basis Cai is you're going to see some mix shift between company-funded and deferred R&amp;D.
And so in the coming quarters what you're going to see is that company-funded R&amp;D is going to grow in aggregate whereas the deferred R&amp;D is going to be flat to slightly down.
And your next question comes from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping -- first is there anything that you can tell us to help bound or provide a framework for the commercial aftermarket opportunity as a result of the regulatory mandates? It seems like that's becoming a bigger positive.
And then just a clarification separately.
Patrick I think you mentioned that incremental margins at ARINC could rival the commercial business.
Is that a temporary phenomenon because of the benefits of synergies margin expansion because of that? Or was that a normalized comment? Let me take the first part of your question or the last part of your question first with respect to ARINC and the margins.
That was a -- I'll say that was a more normalized comment.
We view the sales increase on ARINC particularly in that 2/3 of the business that Kelly identified as being associated with commercial aviation business aviation as having similar margin characteristics as our commercial business.
And therefore we think we'll be able to drive incremental margins with those sales.
Now in the short term you can couple that with some cost synergies that we'll be taking out over the course of let's say the next 1 to 2 years.
So there'll be some additional margin opportunity with that.
But from a normalized perspective we do see pretty high incremental margins.
Let me talk a little bit about the mandate question.
So we don't break out specifically the revenues around the mandates but let me help you think about that.
The mandates are really driven by 2 changes: a TCAS change and a data link change.
We are seeing as we anticipated the airlines getting in line particularly the larger airlines to get those mods done as a part of their normal maintenance so they don't get in a situation of having to take an airplane out of service to incorporate the mod.
The -- we expect that to accelerate throughout the year.
Our first quarter performance indicates that I think we've got that sized about right.
And your next question comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
With the D&amp;A at ARINC the D&amp;A of what you're projecting like $15 million a quarter does that continue for the foreseeable future? Or when does the amortization part of it stop? Well certainly there'll be some level of intangible asset amortization for the foreseeable future.
I'll tell you for the first couple of years we're going to see relatively higher amortization.
I'm going to say the amortization related to the acquisition is going to be about $27 million in 2014 about $38 million in 2015.
And then toward the end of our planning period in '17 '18 you'll see that coming down as some of the shorter-lived intangibles like backlog get burned off.
But probably steady-state run rate of $25 million $27 million.
And that's just -- and just to be clear George that's just the incremental amortization related to the acquisition not their total D&amp;A.
And your next question comes from Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on biz jet.
One on the Learjet 85 to what extent was the delay there anticipated in your guidance for the year? And is there any risk associated with that? And then second the acquisition of Beechcraft by Textron to what extent is that an opportunity for you to maybe gain a bit more share back at Cessna? Or to what extent is it maybe a risk? Well the Lear 85 is exactly per our plan so there's no impact associated with that in fiscal '14.
We had anticipated that.
As far as the Cessna and Beechcraft combination first of all we think that's very positive.
It provides a much stronger financial backing for Beechcraft for the long run.
And as you know they're an important customer to us.
But so is Cessna.
Cessna is a very important customer.
Let me remind you that we have lost share at Cessna and it's because we did not have a product in time for some of the upgrades that they were doing.
We now do have that product available.
And so we're excited that this new combination will give us upside opportunity to look for new opportunities with the combined entity.
Your next question comes from Robert Stallard with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Patrick couple of debt-related questions.
I was wondering if you could give us an idea of what your sort of quarterly run rate will be for interest going forward from here now that ARINC has closed.
And also what do you expect the debt paydown schedule to be roughly over the next couple of years? Sure Rob.
I would say that the quarterly run rates is going to be around $50 million a quarter.
As for the debt paydown a lot of it will depend upon our cash flow.
But our hope is to get the bulk of the commercial paper paid back over about a 2-year period.
And your next question comes from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Patrick is it possible to walk through the difference between the $50 million at-the-midpoint increase in the cash flow outlook and the $85 million of EBITDA you've highlighted for the year for ARINC? Or in other words what's -- of the non-recurring ARINC what's cash? And is there any change to the projection for the legacy business on [indiscernible]? Yes I would say -- Noah I'd say that there's really 2 main impacts of -- well actually 3 main impacts of -- related to the cash.
The first is we've got some -- the transaction costs.
The second thing is integration costs.
Both of those we took out of our EBITDA estimate to come to normalized EBITDA.
And the third is the taxes of course on the -- well interest and taxes on the acquisition.
Research Division</strong> So nothing from the legacy business? There may be some slight incremental cash flow opportunity resulting from the Government Systems' increased outlook but not significant probably in the range of $5 million to $10 million.
Your next question comes from Ken Herbert with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I can appreciate the better outlook here for Government Systems here in the United States.
Can you comment on any changes you've seen internationally over the last few months within Government Systems specifically in terms of maybe any opportunities accelerating or getting pushed to the right? And specifically what would you highlight as maybe 2 or 3 of the key programs that perhaps internationally again represent perhaps the most opportunity for upside within that segment in '14 or into '15? Well so we're in some cases riding the OEMs' tail on some international pursuits.
So we're seeing good demand from Boeing as they sell things like P-3s into these new countries and that's driving some opportunities.
We've got C-130 upgrades small fleet upgrades happening throughout the regions.
We will see opportunities in the Middle East for follow-on targeting systems.
As Patrick outlined this quarter we had pretty good revenue growth in our surface portfolio driven by those targeting systems and we've got some follow-on business associated with that.
So I'd highlight those as the key drivers for us going forward.
And your next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just one on the 787.
Where are you guys currently at in terms of your production rate? And where are -- are the incremental margins on that platform still a bit of a drag? And if so when do you think you can get to sort of in-line incrementals on that with your legacy commercial business? Michael I'd say 2 things.
First of all I think we're fully synced up with Boeing at this point.
So our production rate matches theirs at roughly 10 a month.
And in terms of incremental margins as we had talked about in the past the Boeing 787 for the next -- I'd probably say the next couple of years is going to come at lower margins than our typical incremental margins.
Now that said still pretty healthy margins well in excess of our -- of the Commercial Systems' overall operating margins but less than the incremental margins.
And I would expect that condition to continue probably through 2015 and begin to abate in 2016.
Your next question comes from Kristine Liwag with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> If I ask Carter's earlier question on Government Systems' margins a different way what needs to happen for the segment margins to go back to the 20% range? Is it just timing better pricing reduction of cost structure? And when do you think you'll get back to those levels? I think sales growth is probably the biggest thing.
I mean I think once we start returning to growth I think you'll start seeing the segment operating margins begin to expand.
Now that said 20% is not far from where we are today.
I wouldn't be surprised if we hit 20% sometime this year.
So I think we're in the ballpark right now.
I'm very happy with the margin performance of the Government Systems business over the course of the last few years as sales have been declining.
But if we get a little uplift from sales I would think that we'll get back up to that 20% level very quickly.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of follow-ups.
Kelly the first one is just to continue on the aftermarket discussion.
We've been hearing that used aircraft are seeing some more lease extensions here and that the part activity may be swelling a little bit.
Are you seeing this yet at all in competition from surplus parts? We are not.
I'm hopeful that we will start seeing.
I've been reading that myself.
But no we are not yet seeing that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- so it sounds like that could come possibly.
Two quick ones Patrick.
R&amp;D at ARINC I think your guidance held static for the company despite the inclusion of ARINC.
So does that tell us anything about R&amp;D spend at ARINC? And then quickly on the tax rate cadence for the year given that the first quarter here looked a little bit low.
Yes.
As ARINC's R&amp;D what -- I would tell you this.
We haven't gone through the process of looking at how they account for research and development versus how we do.
So I think the jury is still out as to exactly how much ARINC R&amp;D is.
What I'd tell you is regardless of how much it is it's not going to change the round -- well around $950 million in total spend.
That's not -- I don't think that's going to change.
But I couldn't tell you today sitting here right now exactly how much R&amp;D is at ARINC.
They tend to charge most of their R&amp;D to programs that don't break it out separately.
And so we may have a little bit of an accounting change to do.
As it relates to the tax rate cadence we were low this quarter.
We've forecasted a tax rate of about 30%.
And so what that implies obviously is that we're going to see an increased tax rate over the course of the next 3 quarters.
And I wouldn't say I don't think -- I don't -- I'm not looking at a big lump in any one quarter going forward so I would just kind of smooth it out from here going forward.
Research Division</strong> Did you say previously that you had expected 1 quarter with some help? Was with that this quarter? Or is that some other quarter? Well there were really 2 events.
This tax planning idea we weren't sure which quarter it was going to hit in so we didn't really commit to the quarter.
But it turns out it was first quarter.
The other thing that's going to hit us is the settlement of some outstanding [ph] tax years.
We anticipate that some of them will occur either next quarter or the third quarter.
We're not sure yet but just depending upon the timing of how negotiations go.
And that could provide a modest benefit but will not be as significant as this tax planning strategy we had in the first quarter.
And your next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
Kelly maybe if you could just update us on these unannounced wins that have been hanging out there for a while kind of current -- how many current status when we might hear something? And then also on the A350 there I think there was a comment in your 10-K about you picked up some share on the A350 over the course of the last year.
Could you just maybe comment on what exactly that relates to and how much of a share pickup it represents? Yes the share gain is for a system called the rudder/break pedal assembly.
This is the mechanical structure electric mechanical structure.
If you recall we entered that market on the 787 where we provide the whole pilot controls.
The 787 also includes a yoke and steering wheel column.
The Airbus aircraft do not.
So we penetrated now Airbus with our mechanical systems business and that's an increase in content a modest increase in content for us on the A350 going forward.
I'm sorry what was your...
Research Division</strong> Your unannounced wins how many.
And any update on timing there? Well as you know the timing is really not driven by us.
I was hopeful that we'd see some of those announced here already.
We'll have to look towards EBACE and NBAA as the timing opportunities.
That's typically when we see these come out.
And there's no change in the number of platforms that we've pursued or won since the last time.
There's been really no new activity in new airplanes at the -- in business aviation.
And your last question is from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 quick follow-ups.
One was for Patrick.
Patrick did the comp expense accrual for the year tick up on the guidance? I just don't know how that would work with ARINC being folded in.
And then for Kelly could you remind us where we are on JTRS for this year? What's kind of in the guidance? Is it opportunity or risk specifically as it relates to the Manpack? Yes.
Myles as it relates to the incentive compensation it did tick up just a hair as a result of the increase but not significantly.
And the JTRS comment for fiscal '14 we have production of existing contract activity for low rate Lot 1 and we also have production starting in the back half of the year and deliveries starting for the low rate initial production Lot 2.
That was one -- Lot 2 was an award that we did -- just recently got.
So we firmed up all of our JTRS backlog for our fiscal '14 sales.
And there are no further questions.
I'll turn the call back to our presenters.
Thanks Candace.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q tomorrow so please review that document for additional disclosures.
Also let me remind you that we're planning an Investor Day in New York on March 6 and look for more information on that in the near future.
Thank you for joining us and participating in today's conference call.
And this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Simon and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we'll be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and our reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Well I’m pleased to report that for the second quarter of our fiscal year 2014.
We delivered strong financial results growing our top line sales by 12% with the addition of ARINC and delivering total segment operating earnings of 20%.
And for those of you who participated in our Investor Conference last month these results are inline with the strategies that we laid out.
And let me give you just a brief recap of those strategies.
As we look to accelerate growth and increase share owner value of the Company we are focusing our efforts in four primary areas; the first is leveraging our new Information Management Services growth platform.
The second capitalizing on market share gains with new OEM platforms entering service.
Third expanding our international business and fourth positioning our government business for the new defense environment.
And I’m pleased to say that for this quarter we’ve made progress in all fronts.
As you know one of our biggest growth drivers is our acquisition of ARINC.
And we came out of the shoots really strong with 13% year-over-year revenue growth and 20% EBTIDA margins for the quarter.
Our integration plan is on track and I remain encouraged by this synergy capture opportunities we are seeing that will help us to lever the accelerated levels of growth we expect from this business in terms of sales earnings and cash flows.
And while we are on the subject of Information Management I want to take a moment to highlight this significant agreement we’ve recently signed with the Inmarsat to provide Ka-broadband service to the commercial aviation markets.
This agreement will allow Rockwell Collins to continue to build-out our broad offering of connectivity services to meet our customers growing information needs.
This deal would not have been possible without ARINC and it’s just one example of the way this acquisition is already paying off.
During the quarter we also achieved a number of important milestones on new OEM programs in both our commercial and government markets.
For example the A350 program continues to progress towards entry into service and our equipment is performing very well in the flight test and that supports our plan to begin deliveries later this year.
At Embraer we deliver the first Pro Line Fusion systems for the Brazilian Air Force KC-390 program and we’re finishing up the flight test program on the Legacy 500 business jet.
I’m pleased to say that our avionics are in good shape to support the Legacy 500s entry into service later this summer.
Again this supports our plan to see some benefit from deliveries yet in our fourth quarter.
We also achieve certification of the Avionics onboard the AgustaWestland’s AW189 helicopter including our new HeliSure family of situation awareness products.
Again this supports our plan for full scale production deliveries in the second half of this fiscal year.
And just last week Bombardier achieved the first flight of the Lear 85 equipped with a full suite of our Pro Line Fusion avionics.
This is just one of more than a dozen new aircraft equipped with Pro Line Fusion scheduled to enter service over the next five years and while this critical milestone did occur a little later than we all had hoped.
It’s an important indicator that the program continues to make progress and it will be an important growth engine for us in the out years of our plan.
It’s very encouraging to see all these investments we’ve made in these programs beginning to payoff.
While it’s taken a little longer than we have planed in a few cases I remained confident that our strong positions on these and other programs will continue to fuel growth in the years ahead.
Now on the International front we continue to make good progress against our goal of growing our International business to 50% of our overall revenues in the next five years.
Highlights for the quarter include the selection of our Flight2 avionics systems with the Mexican Air Force C-130 upgrade program selection of our latest Fixed Site Ground radio for the Indian Air Force and we delivered our first HF radios to Helibras down in Brazil marking first radios that we manufactured and delivered out of our Brazilian facility and this is a part of our overall strategy that increased our footprint in this growing market.
In addition our Information Management Services team signed a five year contract to place our Common Use Passenger Processing Systems in all four common use terminals at the London Heathrow airport.
This is a significant win for us in one of the world’s busiest airports.
Earlier this month I was in China where we broke ground on our new facility as part of our commercial flight simulation joint venture with Beijing Bluesky Aviation Technology that JV is called ACCEL and it’s targeted at the growing China simulation market.
We also have the grand opening of our communication and navigation joint venture with CETC Avionics which is initially focused on the COMAC C919 aircraft but we’re also expand to address additional opportunities in China.
These JVs will play a critical role in allowing us to continue to grow our business in this emerging China aerospace market and it’s fundamental to our overall growth strategy in our international port upfront.
Now before I turn the call over to Patrick to walk through the financials.
Let me briefly address what’s going on in our end markets.
We now had time to come through the details of the U.S.
defense budget and I’m pleased to say that our programs have faired pretty well.
While some have been funded at lower levels than originally anticipated there has been no outright program cancellations and you may recall that one of our watch items was the KC-10 upgrade program.
And I’m pleased that this program was funded and we’re now working to finalize the contract to support the balance of our fiscal 2014 sales plan.
The other watch item was the JTRS Manpack radios and that also appears to be well supported in the budget.
In business aviation as expected we had a soft quarter as the rate reductions we saw in the latter half of last year continue to play through particularly at the low-end.
And then finally the air transport market continues to remain strong with good OEM growth driven by delivery to the 787.
In addition our Buyer Furnished Equipment capture rates are in line with our long-term plans.
And was supported by some recent awards from American Airlines AirAsia and SilkAir for our new MultiScan ThreatTrack weather radar which we just introduced.
I’m really pleased to see that take up in the market.
We had another other airline avionics awards that will continue to support our growth in that region.
And overall our commercial aftermarket continues to track to our mid-single digit guidance.
So in summary this was a solid quarter for us demonstrating that our teams are executing to our plans to accelerate growth and increase shareholder value.
And just as important I like the way we’re doing it.
In March we were recognized by Ethisphere Institute as one of 2014’s Most Ethical Company.
The award recognizes organizations that continue to raise the bar in ethical leadership and corporate behavior.
And this is the fifth consecutive year we’ve been recognized for this award.
We were one of only three companies in A&amp;D space to be honored this year.
I think it demonstrates the integrity and dedication of our people and our management team and is yet another reason why I’m confident about the future of Rockwell Collins So with that let me turn the call over to Patrick to take you through the financial details of the quarter.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I’d now like to walk you through today’s presentation slides that summarize our results of the second quarter of 2014.
I’ll begin on Slide 3 but we highlight our total company’s second quarter sales earnings per share income from continuing operations and shares outstanding.
Total company’s sales for the quarter increased to $141 million or 12% compared to second quarter of 2013 sales.
The second quarter sales do include $137 million of ARINC revenue.
Although income from continuing operations and earnings per share both declined compared to second quarter last year.
The decrease resulted from differences in the availability of the Federal Research &amp; Development Tax Credit.
Prior year results included a $31 million benefit or $0.22 per share but in the retroactive reinstatement of the Federal R&amp;D Tax Credit which once again expired on December 31 2013.
Excluding the difference in the tax rate year-on-year earnings per share would’ve increased 9%.
As we turn to Slide 4 note that we have reclassified sales leading to our legacy flight services business previously included in commercial systems to our new information management services segment.
Sales related to our flight services were about $11 million in the second quarter of last year.
With that said personal systems achieved revenue of $536 million in the quarter up 3% from $542 million in the second quarter of 2013.
Aftermarket sales increased $9 million or 4% to $221 million due to higher services to support sales and regulatory Airspace mandates.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $5 million or 2% to $317 million primarily due to increased leverage for Boeing 787 aircraft partially offset by lower deliveries of light business jets.
Now Commercial Systems operating earnings increased 9% to $127 million in the second quarter of 2014 with operating margins expand to go 140 basis points from 21.4% to 22.8%.
The increase in operating earnings and margins was due to higher sales lower R&amp;D expenses and cost saving initiatives.
Moving to Slide 5 Government Systems revenues decreased by 2% to $567 million in the second quarter driven by lower satellite communication sales as troop deployments wind down in the Middle East as well as lower development program sales.
These headwinds were partially offset by increased hardware deliveries on both domestic and international programs.
Now looking specifically at our product categories.
Sales of Avionics $9 million or 3% from higher deliveries of the E-6B aircraft upgrade program as well as increases from a number of international programs.
However these increases were partially offset by lower KC-46 and KC-10 development program sales.
Communication Product sales declined $20 million or 13% primarily due to lower satellite communication sales as fewer terminals were delivered and service revenues declined due to troop deployments winding down in the Middle East.
Surface Solutions and Navigation Product sales were about flat in the second quarter of 2014 compared to the same period last year.
Government Systems second quarter operating earnings decreased $3 million to $109 million resulting in an operating margin of 19.2% compared to the 19.4% in the second quarter of last year.
The decreased operating earnings and margin resulted to the lower sales volume.
Now turning to Slide 6 you see our new segment Information Management Services which include ARINC as well as our legacy flight services business.
During the second quarter ARINC contributed $137 million of revenue and the flight services business contributed $12 million of revenue.
On a pro forma basis Information Management Services sales increased 13% driven by strong growth in commercial and business aviation sales.
Operating earnings for Information Management Services were 12.1% in the second quarter.
And ARINC’s standalone adjusted EBITDA margin during the quarter was 20% consistent with the guidance we provided in our first quarter earnings release.
Looking next to Slide 7 we show our year-to-date results for revenue income from continuing operations earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Through the second quarter we generated $63 million of operating cash flow compared to $179 million last year.
The decreased cash generation resulted from $69 million in higher income tax payments $60 million in higher employee incentive compensation pay and other working capital changes partially offset by $54 million in lower pension plan contributions.
Slide 8 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the second quarter of the year.
During the first six months of the year total spend decreased from $464 million to $451 million.
Company funded R&amp;D declined $10 million due to reduction in R&amp;D efforts on various next-generation business jet avionics development programs.
Customer funded R&amp;D declined $16 million due to development programs winding down in Government Systems.
Pre-production engineering investment on the other hand increased due to higher spend on the Boeing 737MAX and Bombardier C-Series and Global 7000/8000 development programs.
Looking to the full year we still expect to spend approximately $950 million in total R&amp;D.
Moving to Slide 9 we show the status of our capital structure as of the second quarter compared to the end of last year.
The first quarter we issued a $1.1 billion of long-term debt approximately $900 million of which was used for the ARINC acquisition and the remainder was used to refinance $200 million of our debt that matured in December.
The balance of the ARINC acquisition was funded with commercial paper and we currently plan to pay down the bulk of that commercial paper balance over the course of the next couple of years.
At the end of fiscal 2013 we had a debt to EBITDA ratio of approximately 0.9%.
With the issuance of long-term debt and the incremental commercial paper in the first quarter to fund the acquisition we are currently at about 2.3%.
I believe this level of debt still allows us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs and I expect it to improve over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally results later in the year and we pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the second quarter is detailed on Slide 10.
During the second quarter we repurchased 475 000 shares at an average cost of $81.57 which brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 87 million shares or $4.3 billion to share owners.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was $356 million.
Now on to Slide 11 where we’ve provided the details of our updated fiscal year 2014 financial guidance.
We have updated our earnings per share guidance to be in the range of $4.40 to $4.55 per share from the previous range of $4.35 to $4.55.
The improvement at the bottom end of the range is due to lower than previously estimated intangible asset amortization for ARINC.
Based on this improvement we now expect ARINC’s operating margin to be in the range of 11% to 12% up from the previously guided range of 9% to 10%.
We continue to estimate ARINC’s adjusted EBITDA margin to be about 20% of sales.
All other areas of the financial guidance for fiscal year 2014 are unadjusted from amounts previously provided in our first quarter earnings call.
Sales are expected to be in the range of $4.95 billion to $5.05 billion with ARINC sales in the range of $400 million to $430 million.
Total segment operating margins are estimated to be in the range of 20% to 21%.
Our outlook for operating cash flow continues to be $600 million to $700 million and total R&amp;D investment is estimated $950 million and capital expenditures are estimated at $160 million.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
In order to give everyone the opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit your questions to one per caller.
If you have further question simply reinsert yourself into the queue and we’ll answer those additional questions as time permits.
Operator we are now ready to open the line.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
You’ve talked about some of the progress you’ve made in ARINC Kelly could you elaborate a little bit more? I mean clearly the Inmarsat win is one example.
What other initiatives do you have underway? Are there some apps or some other items you might be able to talk about?  Well Howard we talked about kind of short-term and long-term synergies when we had our Investor Day.
We’re making good progress in some of the short-term which if you recall are really just leveraging our channel bringing Rockwell Collins and ARINC capability and we’ve seen new tails or new customers added to both our ARINC Direct and our Ascend flight support services in business aviation.
So I feel really good about that.
I’ll also tell you that we’ve got a number of new pursuits and proposals that are going in to provide integrated solutions with our equipment and connectivity.
So I’m feeling very very good about that.
Now as far as the longer term synergies those are the things that are going to take some time and we’re in the project definition phase on some of those to define what applications and what development work needs to be done.
So those will take a little bit longer but I’m really encouraged with the short-term nature of it and obviously the first quarter results are encouraging here too because it came out pretty strong without those synergies.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong> Yes.
So your R&amp;D sort of run rate was lower than the $950 million you talked of for the year.
You said about $950 million in the guide.
I mean it kind of looks like you would come in towards the lower end of that and also particularly commercial R&amp;D kind of looks like it’s running at a lower rate.
Where would you expect that to come in for the year because it kind of looks like it’s going to be down a fair amount? What I’d say Cai is I think the trends for R&amp;D are that we’re going to be accelerating our company-funded R&amp;D in the back half of the year particularly in the commercial area as development programs progress.
I think right now we’re forecasting right in the neighborhood of $950 million.
We maybe a few million short of that but it’s not going to be significantly short of $950 million.
LLC</strong>  And what does that assume about 777X? Not a lot of spending this year on 777X.
We’re currently in the process of figuring out what content we’ll have on that and I don’t anticipate a lot of engineering effort this fiscal year.
LLC</strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Rober Stallard with RBC.
Your line is open.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Question on the guidance.
It seems that you have quite a lot to do to hit your cash flow guidance your free cash flow guidance for the full year and also your defense margin guidance.
I was wondering what gives you the confidence you can get there and perhaps some of the risks that are still potentially threatening this number? Well Rob as you know our cash flow is very heavily weighted towards the back half of the year particularly the fourth quarter.
So I always share your concerns with respect to cash flow but it always comes in.
There is nothing I can see today that puts our cash flow at risk.
I think we’re going to hit that range of $600 million to $700 million.
As for the government margins again government margins are depended somewhat on volume.
The volume is going to pick up in the back half of the year and that should contribute to higher margins and will end up in that kind of 20% to 21% range.
Rob the only thing I’d add to that is the government margins are right in line with our plans.
So we’re not seeing anything that surprises us in terms of the operating performance there.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hey thanks for taking my question.
Pat I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about this amortization change impacting ARINC and specifically also how it affected the guidance revision.
I guess I would have sort of thought that there would be a parallel shift up.
It seems like it only affected the low end.
I’m not sure why it didn’t affect the high end of guidance.
If you could just sort of also offer some clarity on what it takes to hit the high-end versus the low-end and just to elaborate on that would be helpful to thanks?  The amortization expense for ARINC is really just the case of us working towards finalizing the valuation of those intangibles.
And as we look at it we see a very large intangible associated with customer relationships.
ARINC has long-term customer relationships and as a result those customer relationships are amortized over a longer period of time and that resulted in a reduction in the guidance.
As it relates to the kind of the mechanics of the guidance range that reduction in amortization was about $5 million or around $0.03 a share.
So the best way for us to incorporate that $0.03 was just to narrow our guidance range a little bit.
And that’s how we got from a what is the midpoint of $4.45 to $4.48.
And in terms of what it takes to hit that top end of the range I’d tell you probably I think if ARINC continues to perform the way it performed in this quarter and if Government Systems surprises us on their top line I think we can get to the top end of the range.
Really helpful thanks a lot.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Kelly you’ve mentioned that you guys were basically paging through the defense budget and while some programs were reduced in funding nothing was canceled.
I was just wondering if you could can you give a couple of examples wondering if there is any more color you could provide and really very specifically as we look into next year.
You guys have been saying for a while that you expect this to be the last down year for government sales and next year to be flat is that still what you anticipate?  Yes that’s what I still anticipate nothing in the budget submission that we’ve gone through takes us away from that target.
I would say the only other thing maybe to mention that where we did see cuts that impact us are around the WIN-T program the Army’s network modernization that’s up quite a few cuts.
And that effects our Milsatcom business and our military comm portfolio.
I think we’d spike that out it’s an area that’s been heavily impacted by the withdrawal from the Iraq and Afghanistan as well as the army.
So that’s a little bit of a disappointment for us but I think overall the rest of the portfolio certainly our avionics core comm and nav programs all look pretty good.
So I think we’ve forecasted it pretty well and we are sticking with flat in 2015.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Kelly just sticking with the military and the comms you are only down about 2% on the revenue side in the first half of this year guiding to a higher decline or a greater decline for the full year.
How do we think about the second half in terms of Government Systems revenue growth or rather decline? Well we’ve got some programmatic timing that’s going to impact us in the second half.
One of the big challenges we have is that if you recall the Manpack radio production Lot 2 award was delayed.
We got that award but we got it much later than anticipated which created a production break for us in the second half.
So we’ll be building Manpacks but in the third and a little bit of the fourth quarter we’ll go through a revenue decline on those as we deal with that.
And then we are seeing some just some non-recurring timing from our tanker development programs coming down and a little bit of decline in the E-6 because we had a pretty strong fourth quarter last year in E-6 deliveries.
So it’s really just a kind of programmatic timing.
So was it double-digit decline 10%-12% possible in H2?  No I think that’s a little – that’d be a little hot in terms of the decline.
Okay so your revenue guidance here – you’re probably going to comment at the better end of what you are talking about? Well I’m hopeful that certainly our government performance year-to-date is encouraging so I’m hopeful that there is some opportunity yet here as Pat kind of talked about in terms of getting to the top end of our guidance I’m hopeful we’ll see some continued good news the challenge we have is getting this stuff through their procurement cycle now.
A good example is that KC-10 is funded I don’t have the contract yet.
Guys are working hard to get the contract where you got sales in the fourth quarter with that.
So we just got to get that stuff push through if we are pretty successful then I think we’ve got some upside opportunity on our government revenues.
Okay and then just on the aftermarket in commercial you’ve talked a mid-single digit can you parse that out between the spares and upgrades or mandates? In terms of spares versus upgrades and mandates I think there is probably not much growth related to this sparing activity in the quarter.
I think when you look at your transport piece of the business.
It’s largely driven by upgrades in mandates to a lesser extend.
And business jets we didn’t see a lot of growth although we saw a nice sequential growth in the aftermarket.
I’d say that the issue with the business jet aftermarket growth was largely year-over-year comps because we had some pretty significant spares sales in the second quarter of last year.
Right right thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning it’s actually Jon Raviv on for Jason thanks for taking the question.
Just following up on Rob’s question on aftermarket as one of you could parse the expected cadence out of those various aftermarket end market specifically business jet upgrades in the second half perhaps air space mandates in FY15.
How do you see that flowing you could receive better aftermarket perhaps next year as some of those regulations come online?  Well we’re not going to guide aftermarket right now for 2015 but I would expect to see that we’ll have accelerating mandate related aftermarket in 2015.
The one area that it’s still pretty lumpy and questionable as the discretionary updates in the business aviation.
We’re seeing quite a bit a quoting activity but as we’ve said in previous calls that’s not really converting as much as we would like so we’re going to keep an eye.
If there is any area of risk it’s around that discretionary business aviation upgrade.
And right now the way we’re looking at it is business jet aftermarket is going to be strong relatively stronger in the second half.
And actually air transport from a year-over-year perspective is going to be a little bit softer than we saw in the first half just more due to comparables than anything else? And then remember that once we get A350 ramping up we’ll have all the entry into service of spares and service revenues that will provide some growth here in 2015 as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Noah.
I’m staying in business jet and going off of that last comment were you mentioned you’re seeing a decent amount of quoting but it’s not converting as much as you’d like.
Can you tell how much of that is competition winning those quotes versus – the quotes just ultimately not happening?   Yes.
It’s not our competition.
In fact most of the quoting there is no competitive it’s like displaying up or updating one of our existing systems with a new capability or a new feature.
So it’s truly our decision of do I want to put more money into the aircraft right now.
And I would say no for that the smaller the airplane the softer the activity.
Okay.
And then in that smaller market when does that legacy revenue that was a headwind in the quarter when does that bottom-out and then are you hearing anything from the customer the original equipment customer or seeing anything in the market to make you feel like that is starting to get a little better or not? Well the legacy headwind is primarily Cessna and that will abate over the third and fourth quarter here.
So the first two quarters were the big headwinds because that’s when they did their rate adjustments.
And what we’re hearing from the OEMs is that they are seeing a little activity it’s mostly around their new entry into service new platforms as you recall at Cessna particularly we’re not on those the N2 program is an example.
So we’re not seeing anything that gives us any change in our view about the recovery of the low-end of business aviation is still pretty soft and I don’t see any change in rates for legacy products here soon.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong>  Good morning.
Hi Sam.
LLC</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more just about commercial systems in total and that maybe you can help me understand how you can have a quarter even with the restatement of sales up about $14 million and profits up about $11 million? What's the driver of that high incremental margin and I think an answer to a question earlier you talked about R&amp;D company funded R&amp;D picking up in the second half and I’m wondering how much of a driver that was in net incremental margin? Sam.
The way that I look at it is our R&amp;D year-over-year Commercial Systems for the quarter was down about $4 million if you adjust that piece of it out we get right back to that about 30% incremental flow that we normally talk about.
So the R&amp;D was about four of the causal and then the remainder was really good flow on incremental sales.
LLC</strong> There is no one time kind of initial provision expires or any short of shipment like that that’s affecting it.
No no nothing significant.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Hey good morning guys.
Hi Carter.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick kind of clarification on your comments around the procurement process Kelly I just want to compass this out and see if there is any difference in contracting activity relative to what you expected you called out a couple of those programs but I wonder if you might just kind of characterize what that environment is like right now with the contracting officers and then the DoD compared to what you expect it to be at this time?  It’s definitely improving.
So this BBA and now that we’ve got a budget they’re seeing what’s going to be funded and so the paralysis of not knowing what is going to be funded </strong> wondering what’s going to be happen with that and so there was no procurement action moving forward for this to move to production to this mod.
Now that is funded that’s moving forward.
So I think the overall environment is improving.
We just got some work to do to deal with the last six months of uncertainty now of becoming certain and pushing it through and there is a lot of work to be done by a limited number of people within the procurement organization.
So we are doing everything we can do to help them be efficient.
Inc.</strong>  Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong>  Hi Kelly Patrick Ryan good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</strong>  I just have a very quick question here on deferred engineering and your $170 million goal here.
Just wanted to ask if I've done the math right it looks like you have to – given the pace of what you had the first two quarters it looks like you have to have a meaningful drop in the second half.
Just wanted to make sure that was consistent and you're on track for the $170 million.
I would say yes your math is correct Rich and yes we are anticipating a slowdown in the differed spending and a shift to company funded R&amp;D at the back-half of the year could we end up a little bit higher than $170 million yes we could but I don’t think it’s going to be significant.
Inc.</strong>  Thanks very much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
LLC</strong>  Yes Patrick just based on what you are saying for the commercial margin adjusting for R&amp;D so I make the assumption at the incentive comp was comparable to last year I figured around $39 million or so?  What I would say George is that incentive compensation for the company was about $12 million lower this year than last year but that was largely offset unfortunately by other employee benefit costs particularly medical costs which we saw as higher than anticipated medical costs in this year’s quarter which largely offset that benefit unfortunately.
LLC</strong> So if I look specifically at the incrementals in commercial I should adjust assume that the commercial lower incentive comp and commercial was offset by higher medical so the incremental you just make the adjustment for R&amp;D like you did and you come out with about 50%? Yes that’s right.
LLC</strong>  Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning and Kelly I just wanted to do go back to the Inmarsat agreement and maybe tease a little bit with it seems like an awfully big pipe to be sending health and maintenance over.
Just kind of curious on that front.
Both miles and as you look into the future the bigger the pipe you have the more information you will move off it.
Now that we are not going to move safety critical information.
This is not a safety certified link.
So it would be non-critical which would be cabin related things.
But also operational related information that could go over this broadband link.
So what I think you had a view at it is this is going to be complementary to our portfolio.
We’ll continue to have all the air to ground safety service connectivity.
Now we’ll be able to add a new broader band link which I think is going to be heavily utilized in the future.
So it’s important to us.
Okay and then one other one on that front carriers could be on it’s Malaysian 370 and as you’ve seen in the past or observed in the past any thoughts on potential regulatory moves on data offloading and timing of that or if there is any thoughts around that area? Yes they will identify the team that they selected to participate in that Task Force and that what that Task Force will do is will kind of vet through all the potential solutions to this problem and come up with some recommendation.
So I do see move upward to some sort of a mandated change here.
And I hope to be a part of that Task Force where we certainly have to think we’ve got some good things to offer.
Okay great thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning Hi David Hey hi Kelly.
So in terms of Government Systems your forecast for the plan on next year in terms of sales.
Can you give us some color how bookings are running year-to-date relative no I guess on the year-over-year basis that back packs the view that you can get flattened next year.
Yes kind of related to the question around procurement activity.
If I step back overall our bookings in our Government business were actually a little ahead of our forecast so I’m pretty pleased with what the teams are doing now recognize that’s both domestic and international bookings but there is nothing I see in terms of our pursuit node of capture.
We are winning the programs that we need to win our capture rates or right in line with where we want them to be.
So again I think that the business is there and we’re capturing it to support that flat in 2015.
Okay and Patrick.
Product inventory there was another increase there.
Can you talk about what’s going on there and if you expect that would strengthen your cash flow guidance if that actually comes down the back half of the year and where we are on the E-6 sale process.
Thanks? As we reached the production inventory we typically have our production inventory build in the first half of the year just due to kind of the timing of our sales volume we tend to level out the factory.
And so we tend to have a buildup in the first couple of quarters and then a pretty rapid burn down in the back half particularly in the fourth quarter where we expect that pattern to continue and we expect production inventory to be relatively flat year-over-year when all is said and done.
As it relates to the ASES divestiture I would say that the process continues we hope to close on that before the end of our fiscal year and certainly anticipate that we’ll be able to meet that timing.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert with Canaccord.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong>  Hi good morning.
Hi Ken good morning.
Inc.</strong>  Hi Kelly just wanted to follow-up on one of your very first comments regarding international push there and it seems like you had a number of nice BFE announcements within the commercial transport sides specifically with Asian carriers I just wondered if you can provide any more color on how you see the runway specifically within Asia those fleets continue to expand and this maybe the beginning of something we should hear more about as part of your broader international push.
Well we’ve had very high capture rates in BFE in Asia over the last I’m going to say three four years and this is more of a continuation of that obviously a lot of the narrow body airplanes coming out of Boeing and Airbus are going into that region.
So every time there is an additional buy of aircraft then there is a competition for the BFE.
We introduced a new radar here recently and that’s what I was really highlighting is that we are very pleased to see the take-up of that new radar which is a pivotal decision point around who is BFE an airline is going to select.
So yes the Asia market remains very good for us.
We continue to see increased take-up in Head-Up Display as well going into Asia particularly in China.
So that’s going to be a good market for us for the foreseeable future.
Inc.</strong>  Okay that’s helpful.
And then specifically on the A350 assuming the current schedule when would you expect to start to see a real step-up in initial provisioning? We might get our first payers order yet this year it’s going to be right on the edge but I think for the real step-up you are going to see that is starting next year.
Inc.</strong> Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning it’s actually Kristine Liwag calling in for Ron today.
Our question is a follow-up with the business jet discretionary upgrade you discussed earlier.
Is that active quoting you’ve been hearing because owners are looking to refurbish their aircraft with an intention to sell.
Or because maybe there the business jet owners intend to fly their jet longer and essentially extend the useful life of the aircraft versus previous cycles?   Yes that’s a good question but I don’t know the answer too.
We typically don’t know the psyche of the customer when they are asking for a quote on and we are going through a dealer network in many cases for those updates.
So I don’t know it’s – but my guess would be it’s probably a little of both either modernizing the aircraft or upgrading because they are going to keep it a little longer.
Let me just tell you what is the types of things that we are quoting it’s high definition audio video upgrades for the cabining it’s additional display upgrades or new features and functions in the avionics.
So both of them would provide value for resell of the aircraft.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thanks so much.
So Kelly you’ve talked all about these international defense wins how big was international as a percent of your government sales I’d estimate it about 29% and what sort of growth do you look for in fiscal 2014 and 2015 in your international government sales.
Thanks.
Yes you are right.
It’s around 28% 29% and our forecasting that will grow to 35% over our five year plan.
And that is a pretty linear growth across past those years.
So you can kind of compute what that is mid-single digit kind of growth through the five year plan.
Okay great.
Thank you so much.
(Operator instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks just had a couple of follow-ups.
The first one was just on back to Cessna.
Patrick you said that I believe that the headwind this year is mostly behind you and that there is not going to be much of the headwind in the second half.
But just as we think forward could of that roughly $600 million business since you’re being displaced generally from their platforms as they refresh them.
What is that the sales that you are generating in OE from Cessna.
And then the second question is I just backed us Inmarsat I am thinking bigger picture about passenger connectivity.
Can you talk a bit since you’ve announced essentially your strategy here? Could you frame Kelly how big this could be and maybe just get a little more context as to how you are thinking about the opportunity here from the financial standpoint over the next several years? Let me address the latter and then I will let Patrick talk about the Cessna volume.
So here is how I would think about the connectivity announcement is I have talked about our growth in that information management business to be about high-single digit organic and double-digit if you include synergies.
And that’s what’s in there that’s the kind of stuff that’s in there.
And that’s the growth that it’s going to create.
So that gives you an order of magnitude of what this could be.
As it relates to Cessna’s OEM sales Joe because of the reduction in rates and because of the dynamics that Kelly outlined right now it is less than 2% of total commercial system sales.
So it’s a – there is still very meaningful customer reports but not significant.
Okay and then just on the Inmarsat issue and the connectivity your value-added reseller is this a business is this is a revenue stream that can be high margin.
Or is this a relatively lower margin but lower margin – a sales driver but a low margin one? Well so we bundle it with our overall information management offering.
So today we are a value-added reseller of Inmarsat it’s just not Ka-band.
So when we go to the market with our airing direct in a sense we sell connectivity services.
And if it’s satellite based then yes it’s a value-added resale business.
So in terms of profitability the profitability is kind of all mixed in the – it’s the applications the service as well as the connectivity that all gets wrapped together in a contract.
So I think it’s a component it’s going to help us drive the kind of margins that we’ve outlined for the business.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Just a follow-up to Joe’s question.
Patrick could you rate down then the commercial sales in the business jet area between what we would consider low end mid end and high end a rough breakdown? Real rough breakdown I would tell you probably this time from a revenue perspective we’re out close to half at the high end of business jets.
And then the other half is split probably 30% kind of mid-size and 20% light-end something of that magnitude.
I don’t have the numbers right in front of me but that’s how I think about it anyway.
Okay.
And then just one quick other one.
When you mentioned to me before that medical costs were much higher this quarter and kind offset the lower incentive comp.
Is that a trend that continues in subsequent quarters? So that’s a headwind that you’ll have to keep overcoming.
Well we hope not.
We made a change this year to a consumer-driven health plan and what we saw really towards the end of the calendar year but it swapped into the first calendar quarter because there was a calendar year change was a surge in claims I think as people were preparing for the higher deductible consumer-driven plan.
And so we saw a large surge in claims over the course of the last couple of quarters.
I’m hoping that’s going to bait over the back half of the year but when – any kind of change in medical plan you’re never quite sure what you’re going to get.
So we’re going keep monitoring it but I’m hoping it’s not a trend.
Okay.
Thanks very much again.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Hey thanks for taking the follow-up.
Jon Raviv again.
Can you just talk a little more about KC-10 in terms of magnitude what's your new plan for that? And then also how you expect to get a contract if the DoD is running to sequester that program if we don’t get any relief from Congress? Let me answer the second part of that.
They threaten to sequester that program out in the 2016 timeframe.
So the contracts that we will get will be the initial modifications for the initial aircraft.
They won’t contract and their original plan was never to contract all of the aircraft in a one-shot mode.
So this is the first tranche of aircraft and that’s what we have in our plan.
And if I look at that because of the delay it’s probably heck of a lot more than $10 million here in our plan for the balance of this year.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer-session.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to Ryan Miller for any closing remarks.
Thank you Simon.
We plan to file our 10-Q later today.
So please review that document for additional discourses.
Thank you all for joining us and participating on today’s conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Mike and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we'll be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made only as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that I'm pleased with our third quarter results.
We grew our topline sales by 12% and delivered total segment operating margins greater than 20%.
And due to the improved earnings expectations for our new Information Management Services business we were able to once again raise the mid point of our earnings per share guidance.
I think these results demonstrate that the growth strategies that I highlighted at our Investor Day in March and we discussed during the last call are working.
Let me briefly remind you that those growth strategies are in four primary areas.
First leveraging our new growth platform of information management service.
Second capitalizing on the market share gains with the new OEM platforms that will be entering into service.
The third area expanding our international business and fourth positioning for the new defense environment.
And during this past quarter we made progress on all fronts and let me highlight a few specific examples.
I'll start by giving you an update on our information management services business.
Here we continue to make good progress in achieving our integration objectives and as I mentioned last quarter we're already realizing some of the short-term synergies.
During the quarter the Legacy air business had an adjusted EBITDA margin of 21.6% and its commercial and business aviation portfolio grew 13% on a pro-forma basis.
And remember that the aviation portfolio that grew 13% here is the economic engine of that segment.
So I feel really good about coming out of the shoes with two good quarters and I remain encouraged about our ability to leverage this new growth platform.
Moving now to the OEM front.
During the quarter we achieved a number of important milestones on new programs in both our commercial and government markets.
Last week at Farnborough it was announced that we were selected along with BAE Systems to provide the integrated flight control electronics or fly-by-wire system for the new Boeing 777X.
It’s a great win and it’s just the first of what I hope will be more to come for this new airplane.
And this is the first selection so we’re one of one and I like our chances of gaining share from what we have today on the legacy 777 aircraft.
In business aviation we recently completed all of our development and certification work for the Embraer Legacy 500 and that’s expected to receive type certification within the next few weeks.
This will mark the fourth Pro Line Fusion equipped aircraft to enter into service following the Gulfstream G280 and the Bombardier Global 5000 and Global 6000 and all told right now we’ve got about 150 aircraft currently flying with the Pro Line Fusion system and we’re getting great feedback from the users.
And there is still more than a dozen aircraft types yet to roll out.
So we’ve still got a lot of Pro Line Fusion growth in front of us.
Now on the government side we recently delivered our generation three Helmet Mounted Display system the Lockheed for the F-35 aircraft.
We’ve overcome all the technical challenge associated with this new technology and this generation three baseline will deliver improved performance for the pilot.
We’re also making good progress on another -- a number of other key programs in government systems like the KC-46 and KC-390 where we’re now finalizing our systems and getting ready to transition those programs from development to production.
Now preparing our government business for the future defense environment means that we’ve got to go out and win and get positions on new programs but it also means we’ve got to take a hard look at our existing portfolio and shape it in a way that will accelerate our return to business growth.
Earlier this year we divested of Kaiser Optical Systems or KOSI.
And as you read in the release this morning we’ve entered into agreement now to sell our military satellite communication systems business formally known as Datapath and they manufacture and service ground based satellite communication systems primarily for the U.S.
Army.
This business has declined rapidly over the last three years due to the wind down in Iraq and Afghanistan and it's been a major contributor to our overall government systems revenue decline.
This move is a part of our strategy to reshape our government systems business to focus on the core products and solutions that best fit our plan for future growth.
With the Datapath divestiture we've revised our outlook for government systems to now be down low-single-digit from the previous mid-single-digit decline guidance.
It also takes the major future headwind out of the equation for our government systems business.
Now before I turn the call over to Patrick to walk you through the financials let me briefly address what's going on in our various end markets.
There really hasn’t been a lot of change in our outlook for government systems.
A couple programs that I’ve highlighted in the past that we've been keeping a very close eye on are the KC-10 Avionics upgrade program and the JTRS Manpack program.
We did have a milestone decision meeting for the production approval of KC-10 upgrade program in the last quarter; we've got a few minor action items to clean up there before getting contract turn on.
So that's really good news on the KC-10 front.
This will drive hardware sales force in fiscal 2015.
On the JTRS Manpack program we do need another LRIP a lot to be awarded to bridge to the full scale production program that's now got delivery slated out in fiscal year '16.
So without another LRIP lot award we’d likely see another production break like we've experienced this year on our Manpack production.
And this could have a couple of points of impact to our overall government systems fiscal year ‘15 revenue.
So we continue to work this issue with the Army but as of yet we don’t have a definitive contract or a commitment from the Army for another l-rep lot so that’s something we continue to work over the next quarter.
Now in business aviation we saw a mid single digit growth in the aftermarket and a flattish quarter for OEM sales.
During the last few quarters we have seen bus-jet service and support via relative area of strength as a number of aircraft that were sold in the prior peaks of the cycle are rolling off of warranty and we do expect that trend to continue.
As I look ahead we expect a very challenging environment in light end of the OEM market but do anticipate continued relative stability in mid and heavy bus-jets.
And as we have said we do expect the growth in this area to be fueled by new entries into service.
And then finally the air transport market continues to be very strong with OEM growth driven by deliveries on the Boeing 787 and in the fourth quarter we expect to see Airbus start to ramp up the production for A350 which should give us a little bit of revenue lift yet this year but will be a fiscal year ‘15 growth story for our commercial business.
In the aftermarket the markets playing out about as we expected.
We’re seeing that non-discretionary MRO being driven by traffic partially offset by impacts of recycling.
And on the discretionary side we are seeing good demand for the European mandate and of course pairing is driven by timing of new aircraft deliveries.
Our original production or projections for the full year aftermarket was mid single-digit growth and that’s about where I expect that we’ll end up.
So in summary it’s another solid quarter and our teams are executing our plans to accelerate growth and increase shareholder value.
So with that let me turn it over to Pat to walk you through the details of the quarter.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I’d now like to walk you through today’s presentation slides that summarize our results for the third quarter of 2014.
I’d like to begin on Slide three where we highlighted our total company’s third quarter sales earnings per share income from continuing operations and shares outstanding.
Total company’s sales for the quarter increased a $132 million or 12% compared to the third quarter of last year.
Our third quarter sales included a $134 million of revenue from ARINC business acquired in December of this year.
Income from continuing operations and earnings per share from continuing operations increased slightly during the quarter primarily due to the incremental operating earnings from ARINC and lower taxes which was partially offset by lower operating earnings from government systems higher interest expense from the debt financing for the ARINC acquisition and higher employee benefit related costs.
As we turn to slide four commercial systems achieved revenue of $583 million in the quarter up 6% from $551 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $29 million or 9% to $338 million primarily due to increased deliveries for Boeing 787 aircraft and increased customer funded development program sales which were partially offset by lower deliveries at the light end of the business jet market.
Aftermarket sales increased $5 million or 2% to $228 million due to higher service and support sales higher 747-8 and 787 spare sales and partially offset by lower retrofit sales.
As we look into the fourth quarter of 2014 we're going to have some pretty tough comps in the air transport aftermarket due to a number of lumpy retrofits the benefit us in the fourth quarter last year.
I do expect this will be a one quarter phenomenon that won't trend in the next year.
Commercial systems operating earnings were about flat with last year with operating margins decreasing 150 basis points from 23.8% to 22.3%.
Now while operating earnings benefited from lower company funds and research and development expense operating margins were impacted by higher employee benefit related costs and less favorable incremental margins associated with higher sales related to customer funded development programs.
Moving on to slide five.
Note that the results of the Datapath have been reclassified discontinued operations as a result of pending sale of that business which we expect to be completed in our fourth quarter.
During the third quarter Government Systems revenue decreased by 6% to 535 million driven by lower hardware deliveries at E-6 program decreased development effort on programs such as KC-46 and KC-10 as these programs are transitioning into production and lower deliveries of JTRS Manpack radios.
These decreases were partially offset by higher F-15 revenues and an increase in hardware deliveries of Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems.
Now Government Systems third quarter operating earnings decreased 13 million to 112 million resulting in an operating margin of 20.9% compared to 22% in the third quarter last year.
The decreased operating earnings and margin resulted from the lower sales volume higher employee benefit related costs and the absence of certain favorable program adjustments that benefited the prior year.
These were partially offset by a better mix of higher margin hardware sales and other end cost saving initiatives that we've begun.
Turning to slide six you see Information Management Services which includes ARINC as well as our legacy flight services business.
During the third quarter ARINC contributed $134 million of revenue and the flight services business contributed $12 million.
On a pro forma basis Information Management Services sales increased 3% over the prior year.
Information Management Services commercial and business aviation related sales increased about 13% over the prior year on a pro forma basis.
This increase however was partially offset by decreases in ARINC’s airports and the transportation and security business.
These declines were due to the completion of efforts on certain projects in the airport’s business and the winddown of a government program company exited in the security business.
Overall we’re very pleased with the growth in the Aviation related business and we continue to execute our revenue synergy plans as we leverage our businesses strong customer relationship.
Operating margins for Information Management Services were 14.4% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2014.
And the ARINC’s standalone adjusted EBITDA margin during the quarter was 21.6% albeit good mix of higher margin commercial and business aviation related sales.
Looking next to slide seven we show our year-to-date results for revenue income from continuing operations earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Through the third quarter we generated $237 million of operating cash flow compared to $309 million last year.
The decreased cash generation resulted from $94 million in higher income tax payments $60 million in higher employee incentive compensation pay and these were partially offset by $54 million in lower pension plan contributions and other working capital changes.
Slide eight provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the third quarter of the year.
During the first nine months of the year total spend decreased slightly from 687 million to 683 million.
Company funded R&amp;D decline 12 million due to reduction in R&amp;D efforts on various next generation business jet avionics development programs.
Customer funded R&amp;D declined $11 million due to development programs winding down in government systems which was partially offset by an increase in commercial systems customer funding.
Preproduction engineering investment increased due to higher spends on the Boeing 737MAX the Airbus A350 and Bombardier C-Series and Global 7000/8000 development programs.
And looking to the full year we still expect to spend approximately $950 million in total R&amp;D.
Now moving to slide nine which shows the status of our capital structure as of the end of the third quarter compared to the end of last year.
In the first quarter we issued $1.1 billion of long-term debt approximately 900 million of which was used for the ARINC acquisition and the remainder was used to refinance $200 million of our debt that matured in December.
The balance of the ARINC acquisition was funded with commercial paper.
And we currently plan to pay down the bulk of that commercial paper balance to the beginning of FY16.
As a result of the ARINC acquisition our current debt-to-EBITDA ratio is down to 2.2.
I believe this level of debt still allows us the necessary cost effective access to fund our capital needs and I do expect it to decline in the fourth quarter as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally results later in the year and we begin to pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the third quarter is detailed on slide 10.
During the quarter we repurchased 650 000 shares at an average costs of $77.99.
This brings our total repurchase activity since 2002 to about 88 million shares or $4.4 billion returned to share owners.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was $305 million.
On to slide 11 where we provide the detail of our updated fiscal year 2014 financial guidance we have updated earnings per share guidance to be in the range of $4.45 to $4.55 per share from the previous range of $4.40 to $4.55.
The improvement in the bottom end of the range is due primarily to an improvement in our outlook for the operating earnings of ARINC.
Based on this we now expect Information Management Services operating margin to be about 13% up from the previous guided range of 11% to 12%.
In addition due to the pending sale of Datapath and to narrow the ranges as we are entering the fourth quarter we have updated our guidance for sales operating margins and operating cash flow.
We now expect total sales in the range of 4.9 billion to 4.95 billion compared to the previous range of 4.95 billion to 5.05 billion.
We now expect total operating margins of about 21% compared to the previous guidance range of 20% to 21%.
Operating cash flow is expected to be about 650 million in the middle of our previous range of 600 million to 700 million and all other areas our financial guidance for the fiscal year are unadjusted from previously provided in our second quarter earnings call.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
In order to give everyone the opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit your questions to one per caller if you have further questions simply reinsert yourself into the queue and we’ll answer those additional questions as time permits.
Operator we are now ready to open the lines.
(Operator Instructions).
First question is from Robert Stallard with Royal Bank of Canada.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning Rob.
Kelly I was wondering if you could just comment on Datapath and whether you might have some other paths as the government systems portfolio that you might be thinking of selling? And what sort of timeline we could have for that? Well as we’ve laid out Rob the major impact that we’ve seen causing decline in our government business has been around the U.S.
Army ground soldier activity ground network activity and this has been a big component of it.
So getting this portfolio in someone else's hands I think is a good move for us really positions our government business to get to that stability that we've been looking for.
As far as the rest of the portfolio we continue to look at that.
This was certainly the major component that we wanted to deal with.
And so I'm pleased to have this deal done so that we can move on with the growth area and get our team focused on the areas that provide growth for us in the market.
After this roughly how much of your sales are left into the land area? Well the major components will be GPS receivers handheld GPS receivers.
And as you know we've seen pretty significant decline and we’ve kind of bottomed our sales out there.
And then we've got the JTRS Manpack radio segment that continues to go on.
Other than that most of our army focuses in the aviation side going forward.
I don't in front of me have the total magnitude of those dollars.
Thanks so much.
Next question is from David Strauss with UBS.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Patrick on the ARINC amortization can you -- are we -- are the books close now and can you talk about I think before you were looking at $23 million in tangible amortization this year and then moving up to $31 million can you talk about kind of where those numbers are now?  Yes.
David the way I’d describe it is the books aren’t closed on the amortization yet but they are rapidly closing.
So in terms of the amortization on a run-rate basis next year it will be about $26 million and that compares to about $19 million in 2014 for the first three quarters.
Okay.
And Patrick can you talk about where we are now for the comp accrual for the full year what you’ve got baked in? We're accrued right at about 100%.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Carter.
Just a quick question and clarification on the IMS numbers you gave.
Based on the split you gave at the Investor Day if the aviation piece was up 13% as you said it would imply I think that the airport and transport business was down sort of 25-30 in the quarter.
Is that number right and if so what should we be thinking about from a sequential comparison standpoint in that portion of the business as we look over the next couple of quarters? Is that something that hit this quarter and then we’re sequentially flat from here or how should we think about that?  First of all I think your numbers are pretty close Carter.
And what I’d say is I think from a sequential perspective sequentially it should be that piece of the business should be relatively more stable sequentially.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Carter let me just add.
Yes.
Remember that that business is not the annuity run rate kind of business like the core aviation and we have project related revenue.
And this happened to be a quarter where we didn't have near as much milestone deliveries and you’re going to see that business be a little bit more lumpy than the core aviation segment.
But again remember that the core aviation segment is driving the economics of that business segment.
And what kind of lead times and project sort of from booking to completion and visibility do you have in another side of the business that’s lumpy? I’d say they’re typically about like our government systems business so we’ve got generally pretty good visibility.
These are projects where we go do some engineering work and then do installations that either in airport or security nuclear power plant.
So we’ve got pretty good visibility but the program timing just tends to drive that quarter-on-quarter performance.
All right thanks for the color Kelly.
Yes.
Next question is from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Hi Sam.
Hi.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the margins in the commercial systems business just clearly not much in terms of the incremental margin.
So is that a mix issue is it something with the incentive comp is there way to think about when we can get that back to that 40% to 50% run rate that you’ve always targeted? Yes.
Sam what I’d describe is that there is couple of different rabbits running and you hit on two of them.
One is we did see a mix issue.
We’ve gotten an increased amount of customer funded [NRE] on the commercial side of the business which is a good thing but it comes at lower margin than our product sales.
And then the second thing I referred to in my prepared remarks was employee benefit cost.
And that includes both incentive compensation as well as some higher medical cost this quarter.
On incentive compensation piece if you remember last year we accrued a very large portion of our incentive compensation in the second quarter associated with the retroactive reinstatement of the R&amp;D tax credit.
So we had a disproportionate amount of incentive comp in last year’s second quarter and less in the third and fourth quarter.
So that’s what’s providing the negative comp there.
That's roughly about half a point of margin on the commercial system side and then the medical costs.
We're seeing some unfavorable trends but that's one of these things and it’s hard to predict from quarter-to-quarter; it’s driven by large claims.
So hopefully that won’t be a recurring issue.
Okay that's great.
Thank you.
Next question is from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Yes thanks.
Good morning guys.
Kelly just maybe as a big picture on the biz jet OE you've been pretty -- given us a lot of color and general like on the softness for this market on the lower end.
It sounds like at best this year it’s going to be flat with FY13 and I know that you're going to be guidance in a couple of months but we're thinking about ‘15.
Are you seeing any sort of rate of change in the last month or two or any discussions coming out Farnborough that give you more confidence on the lower end of the market? No not on the low end.
Where there is what I'll say good news at the low end it's probably the M2 aircraft and that's not a platform where we have a position.
So for our platforms no I’m just not seeing anything that changes our outlook on the low end.
Where we will see a lift will be the new entries in the service in the legacy program I talked about is one of those that will drive some growth force going into next year.
Okay.
But unfortunately I'm not saying anything in the OEM front that would raise the tide of say CJ deliveries next year.
Okay.
And just related to that any reason on the aftermarket side where you are seeing higher utilization rates or anything like that from…  Yes the aftermarket is actually good.
We are seeing as I mentioned in my prepared comments we are seeing a roll off of warranty and that will continue to play and give us a little tailwind.
But remember most of our contracts in this area are on a flight hour basis so the more flight hours the better the revenue.
So we continue to see that growth being pretty good.
As far as the discretionary I would it’s kind of the same as the OEM the bigger the airplane the better the discretionary component of the aftermarket the smaller the softer.
We’re seeing updates of avionics and cabin particularly our high definition venue system is doing quite well in the aftermarket and we expect that will continue.
Thank you very much.
Next question is from Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask a clarification question and then a more formal question.
So Patrick first on the amortization 100 million run rate for next year I think that’s what you are referring to the 26 per quarter?  No it’s 26 is for the full year for ARINC.
For ARINC.
And I am talking about the amortization of the development of the deferred.
Okay.
I don’t think we addressed that.
Okay.
That is going to be just one second here.
It’s going to be about $50 million next year.
Is that a total number or is that net?  It’s a total amortization of our deferred engineering.
Okay and I wanted to ask you how that trends begins the changes in R&amp;D as you get into the home stretch on a bunch of these development programs.
So if we were to put the two numbers together how we should think about a year-over-year change? And then Kelly I just wanted to ask you about the activity in core spares.
So taking out provisionings and retrofits just what you are seeing in air transport spares in terms of growth and how customer behavior might be changing there if at all? So as it relates to the trend in R&amp;D I think what we've said kind of over the long-term and we're still putting their plans together for ‘15 but over the long-term.
We expect the trend in research and development on the commercial system sight to be relatively flat as a percentage of sales.
So I think you are going to see it rise in nominal terms overtime but not as a percentage of sales.
And then in terms of the run rate spares if you take the all the initial provisioning out I'd say the run rate spares kind of go with delivery of the aircraft and the delivery rate with the exception that we are seeing this recycling phenomenon.
And it is impacting some sparing primarily in the U.S.
it's primarily a U.S.
airline phenomenon we are not seeing really that being impacted in the international market.
So Kelly what kind of growth rate do you can you home down to a growth rate in core spares when we take out the sales associated with [OE] deliveries? I would I don't have that right in front of me but I think it's going to track very closely to the OEM delivery growth rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question is from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Thank you very much.
I want to try to address the capital question I mean Kelly you talked about getting out you announced the discontinuation of data path and it looks like that’s a modest proceeds you are going to receive modest proceeds for that.
But as you look at the rest of the business and as you look at sort of ideas to invest in the company; first why didn't you try to fix the business and then second when you talk about looking for growth opportunities could you be a little more specific in terms of how is the technology advantaged that you want to kind of build a wall around things that you are going forward?  Well you have several choices when you got a business that's declining like this you can ride through it because you expect the recovery and then you just manage the cost through that period.
You can invest in the next generation of product line to leapfrog.
As I look is this the fundamental issue was not that we performed poorly on the Datapath integration and acquisition the fundamental issue is the end market is not there.
So to put investment dollars in redesigning or developing new sitcom products looking in the tooth of what the army is doing with their [winpy] overall network and funding of that just isn’t a good choice.
So then you look at shut it down the streamline it as much as possible and we felt that this was the best move going forward to let the portfolio go to someone who can see some value in it.
I just didn't see the future market opportunities for us and holding on to a piece of business that doesn't have a future and by the way when a business is declining it distracts management because you spend a lot of time on that.
So this move is going to get our team focused on the things like core avionics upgrade bringing commercial aviation technology into the military market growing that international marketplace in these emerging regions that's where I want my government team focused.
Sound pretty good to me thank you.
Next question is from Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Yes thanks so much.
So you said you’re still looking for 950 in overall R&amp;D and so and maybe you’ve answered this but is commercial at one point look like it was going to be flat which would require a huge step up in the fourth quarter.
Maybe give us some of the pieces of how we get the flat 950 R&amp;D in terms of what it means for the fourth quarter? Well we are expecting a pretty significant ramp up in our commercial systems fourth quarter both as a result of that we actually have an extra week in the fourth quarter so that’s an abnormality plus fourth quarter tends to be a typically higher spend on R&amp;D as we try to complete some projects for the year.
We also have budgeted an increase in government systems R&amp;D and again is tied to that extra week in the quarter as well as the seasonality.
So yes you’re looking at about in order to get to 950 you’re looking at about $35 million step up in R&amp;D quarter-to-quarter which sounds really high but when you factor in the extra week it’s more a seasonally adjusted norm.
Got it.
So how come we don’t get it on the sales line? Well you’re going to see a very good quarter from a sales perspective as well.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Next question is from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Hello? Hi George.
Hi.
My question is I want to pour a little bit more into the commercial margin.
So Patrick if incentive comp was kind of at the 100% rate I assume if over-rolled that was maybe $3 million higher this year than last year I want to know if that was correct.
And then two total R&amp;D was down by 12 million as you said it I missed it.
How much of that was the decline in R&amp;D for commercial? You are absolutely spot on with respect to the incentive compensation was $3 million quarter-over-quarter as a headwind.
And then commercial systems R&amp;D quarter-over-quarter is down roughly on a company funded basis about 6 million.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
The ARINC margin of 13% implies a sequential decline in the fourth quarter.
So you just go into what might be happening there? Well remember what we talked about this quarter is we had a very good mix of sales very strong sales in the business and transport aviation network business.
And more lumpiness and lower sales in what tends to be lower margin security and airports business.
That mix is going to moderate a little bit going into fourth quarter and so we expect the margins to drift down just about.
The other thing I'd say is that I think we had a bit of accumulative catch-up on our amortization in the third quarter as well that might have driven a couple of million dollars of additional profit for the ARINC business.
Very good.
Thanks very much.
Next question is from Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hi Noah.
Could you guys just go a little further into the retrofit decline piece of the aftermarket that you cited? And just a little more detail on what you actually saw and what you're expecting from that business on more than just a one quarter of basis going forward?  Well as we said the retrofits are tend to be kind of lumpy.
The big impact is we had a pretty significant head of display modification that we did last year that didn't repeat this year.
So that drove some of the lumpiness.
What was it up year-over-year excluding that piece?  What sequentially we have --  Well let me talk sequentially from Q2 to Q3 we saw a sequential growth in the after market of roughly about 3%.
In the fourth quarter we're seeing sequential growth of about 8% and you compare that to a year-over-year change in the after market is fairly about 2%.
So I think of six points of that being unfavorable comparables.
I see okay.
That's helpful.
And then I just wanted to ask you on the CSeries program how concerned or not are you given the grounding of the flight test vehicles there and anything you can say about what it means for your long-term commercial growth forecast if there were to be another slide in the program there?  Well we expect this issue to be resolved I think they are in the process of working through they know what the issue is it’s clearly not a show stopping issue they will get that result.
It will have some impact if the schedule slips and I think there is high risk that could happen.
If the schedule slips in '15 could have probably a point of impact to our overall commercial business.
Okay thank you.
And Patrick could you give the Datapath peak to trough or what their ongoing revenue number is now and if you have what it was at the peak handy? So it was roughly a $100 million this year.
And I think the peak was probably about $270 million.
Got it.
Okay thanks a lot.
Next question is from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Thanks good morning.
Good morning.
Just forget to put the cart in front of the horse so the guidance conserve in early September before your next call.
So just Kelly you have kind of (inaudible) if it's not resolved and probably won't be before September and a couple of point headwind in defense R&amp;D tax credit might probably would not resolve and maybe you build in some conservative among the CSeries.
As we think about the those three things or others can you quantify those as it applies to the businesses or puts and takes to those? And maybe Patrick what it would be the tax rate we should use pre R&amp;D tax credit? Well Myles we're in the process of putting together our annual plan right now.
So I'll provide those details when we provide guidance.
As I look our government business we set an objective to get to flat in ‘15 couple of points of that flat in ‘15 will be around the JTRS Manpack decision.
So we'll just have to see the relative timing.
I don't see anything underlying in the end market that gives me great concern on the growth objectives that we've laid out there.
Yes we've got program timing we've always had program timing with new entries and that's something that we just have to deal with.
As I said CSeries probably a point atmost for impact in the next year and we've got upside opportunities as well with lot more.
One of the things that we're finding is we're as we're trying to lean off our expenditure in deferred engineering that customers are funding us a little bit more for non-recurring engineering so that would be an upside that will help offset some of those headwinds that we're dealing with.
And as it relates to the R&amp;D tax credit Myles on an annual basis I think we've seen on annual basis last few years.
But on annual basis it provides about 200 basis point reduction in our tax rate.
As you know that's pretty unpredictable and occasionally it will come with a retroactive restatement.
But suffices to say I don’t expect that to be resolved by the time we issued guidance and so our guidance will exclude that impact.
Okay.
And then one clarification Patrick I think you said 50 million was your pre-production amortization for next year? Yes.
Because that's 11 million or so wider than what was in the last Q have you built in further slippage in CSeries and others into that forecast.
I think we've built in further slippage on some both commercial and government programs yes.
Okay thanks.
Next question is from Yair Reiner with Oppenheimer.
Hi great thank you.
Just one first quick follow up to Myles.
Can you give us a sense of what the JKRS revenues are this year just we know what the base line is? I believe it's right around $100 million this year.
Got it.
And in terms of pre-production engineering what is it looking for 2015 at this point?  Pre-production engineering.
I don't want to get into that level of detail at this point because I haven’t even seen the plan from our commercial systems our government systems business.
I know we anticipated it coming down.
If I was to guess right now coming down in the order of about $50 million year-over-year but again I haven't seen the plans yet.
Got it.
And then just one more on the OE side and biz jet you are running about flat in the June quarter a little bit down for the last three quarters in composite kind of you mentioned the moving pieces any reason to think that the trajectory changes meaningfully either for better or for worse as you look at over the next few quarters and into 2015? Yes we’re expecting a fairly significant increase in business jet well I’ll call BRS business and regional in the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis.
And that’s driven by I think some spares deliveries and could be some early shipments on the Embraer program.
And then in terms of the OE side any major changes the trajectory as you look out not just in the fourth quarter quarter-to-quarter seems to be a bit lumpy but as you look out to next year or right now just a flattish type business? Well what we’ve said as we think that the overall market is going to be flattish and that there will be growth and it will come through that new aircraft entries into the marketplace.
So we’ve got the legacy 500 that will as I mentioned will provide an uplift to growth and if you’re looking at this on year-on-year comparables remember that last year we had a pretty significant rate reductions at Cessna and now we’re kind of sitting in a more stable environment albeit at low production rate environment going forward.
And let me just clarify the fourth quarter growth we are going to see growth in the business in regional side in excess of 10% year-over-year and it’s going to be driven some by product deliveries but also by non-recurring engineering some of this customer funding that we’ve talked about earlier.
Got it great.
Thank you that’s very helpful.
Next question is from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Hey good morning everyone.
Kelly just a quick follow-up to jitters.
I wonder if you wouldn't mind just spending a few minutes and provide a bit of a teaching on where we are and with that program from the customers perspective.
What their requirements are at this point how they are fulfilling those requirements today if they're not taking deliveries at jitter radios and what that requirements can be as we move out toward the end of the decade and why you are so confident that we're going to see this program in shifting more units as we move out into the fiscal '16? So there is really no issue with the requirement here there is strong demand for the radio it's a major part of providing the network capability to the soldiers.
So we're not seeing a weakening demand the challenge we have is we're currently in low rated initial production and the programs acquisition strategy requires that they move from low rated initial production to full and open competition for full rate production okay.
And today the two low rated initial production contracts are with Rockwell Collins and General Dynamics.
So they've been struggling with how they now go open the market to full rate production and the production program has been slipping.
So what has happened is this year they've bought another lot of LRIP radio so they can continue to deliver the radios to the warfighters that they need.
And so the issue and we're in a production break right now we're just starting backup because we saw the break between our LRIP lots is they are struggling with the timing.
So this is much more of an acquisition challenge than it is a challenge in the long-term for the demand of the radios.
Now we do go to full and open competition for full rate production.
So that will be an important milestone their current acquisition strategy is that they are going to select to suppliers for sustained production lots for that overall program.
And we are not really seeing any softening in the overall quantity requirements for the Manpack radios in any of the budget activities that are going on.
Okay.
When does the competition occur?  Well next year they are working on the draft request for proposal activity right now but I would expect that there would be no deliveries under the full and open full rate production until fiscal year '16.
And therein lies the challenge because we are going to deliver out our LRIP lot that we’re currently under contract for pretty early in fiscal year ‘15 and without another bridge we’ll have to shut the production line down and wait for the competition for a full rate.
And do you expect more than just the two competitors for this competition.
Yes.
Okay great.
Thank you very much guys.
Next question is from John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
Kelly I was hoping you could just update us on your bigger picture thoughts on M&amp;A as part of the strategy from here we’ve all talked in the past about our return to buyback but clearly the ARINC transaction has been success so far I was just wondering has it made you maybe a bit more interested in acquisition driven growth going forward and what does that pipeline look like?  Well we have said that this is a new growth platform for us.
So I don’t know if I would say more interested I think we made the acquisition knowing that we wanted to create a growth platform and that opens opportunities for us to add to our portfolio.
I would love to see some additional opportunities where we can supplement the synergies between what was the ARINC business and what was the Rockwell Collins business going forward.
We're sorting through that our first priority was to get our feet on the ground with the integration and get that work behind us.
I think what you are going to see are more opportunities are smaller in nature I don't think you are going to see them large segments companies that provide applications and services that again can compliment more like what you've seen from us prior to the ARINC acquisition.
Got it.
So bolt on perhaps going forward but is it fair to say that something of the scale of ARINC just isn't out there that's more of a one off? Well they very much come when they come we can't control that.
I think for us if you look at our overall capital strategy that's probably not something that we are going to take on in the next year or so as we're dealing with our short term debt.
But if an opportunity represents itself that it as good as ARINC we'll certainly take a look at that I'm not opposed to that.
Thanks for the color.
Your next question is from Joe Nadol with JP Morgan.
Thanks good morning.
Just wanted to dig into a little bit more into some of the metrics around taking Datapath out of earnings understanding the guidance.
So Patrick wouldn't that add $0.05 or $0.06 on it's own just taking that out the full year? Well you got to consider a couple of things first of all about half of it is related to loss on the sale.
So that was not contemplated in any original guidance.
And the other thing is on a seasonal basis Datapath always has a very strong fourth quarter and it was going to be about a breakeven business for us.
Now that we're selling it hopefully soon we won't keep the benefit of all of that fourth quarter surge but we were certainly anticipating that in our original guidance.
So the loss on sale what you already factored that into your discontinued ops earnings before?  Yes.
That's in our -- that's the bulk of our loss for this quarter is the loss on sale.
Okay.
And what are the proceeds?  That’s about $10 million.
Okay.
So you must have written off a big chunk before because you paid obviously quite a bit more than that five years ago.
So why wasn’t the loss a lot bigger?  Yes we paid $125 million for it.
And there is a couple of things.
First of all we generated quite a bit of cash over that period of time when Datapath was generating north of 200 million of sales.
So we did were able to work that down but also the way you allocate goodwill is allocated to a reporting segment.
And so that sort of gets peanut buttered across the Government System segment.
So it doesn't you don't have to write off the entire amount of the goodwill associated with the acquisition.
Okay thank you.
The next question is from Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Good morning guys.
Just kind of following up may be on Joe's question about the outlook.
I would have thought maybe I am wrong here with the change in the intangible asset amortization expense that you would have raised the high end of your guidance by at least a little bit to -- for that may be I am wrong but can you give me some more color on that Patrick? Well what we did was tightened the guidance range and effectively raised the mid-point.
But as we looked at it we thought that the high end was a pretty reasonable place to be.
And what we typically do over the course of the year is narrow that range so obviously raising the high-end wouldn't have accomplished that objective.
So what we do is look at our current forecast and tighten the range around that forecast.
So the forecast rose as a result of the amortization change but the high-end didn’t.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Next question is from Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Patrick just a follow-up on the (inaudible) program how should we be thinking about margin implications if you guys do have to shut that line and the overhead absorption issues I mean is it should we be thinking about government margins being down early in ‘15 or maybe if you could just give some color around the margin implications to that program? Obviously anytime you lose sales it creates -- marks challenge for you.
Fortunately it’s not a huge amount of our sales volume it’s what about 2% of government systems total sales even actually little bit less than 2%.
So nothing that’s going to create a huge absorption issue.
And actually I think we do have some deliveries of the second lot of LRIP in ’15 early ’15.
And so if there is any margin implication it would likely be toward the back half of the year.
And as you’ve seen in the past we generally do a pretty good job of managing our cost structure to the current volume.
So if there is not LRIP 3 we’ll manage that cost down.
Perfect.
And then just lastly can you give us any color on the current booking trends from the government business on your shorter cycle; I mean are you seeing contracts start to flow again or any additional color you can provide there? Yes we are.
I’d say it’s been pretty stable since we’ve got through the Ryan-Murry Act and the budgets long-term budgets got better visibility.
So I think we’re to a more normal contracting activity associated with our defense business.
Now that doesn’t mean it’s fast I'd say it's more normal working things like the KC-10 acquisition strategy is taking a little bit of time.
We originally had some of that revenue in fiscal year '14.
It’s now pretty much pushed because of those delays.
But I'd say that's more normal it's not because of uncertainty around the budget.
Got it.
Perfect that's helpful guys.
Thanks.
Okay.
Next question is from Ken Herbert with Canaccord.
Hi good morning.
Hi Ken.
Patrick or Kelly just a follow-up on the commercial transport aftermarket flat year-over-year.
Can you provide a little more detail on I know discretionary is probably doing better and the MRO a little soft but how good is discretionary doing and specifically how strong was IT this quarter and mandates relative to the MRO side? I think as you mentioned transport was pretty flat.
And I don't think we saw a much growth in either the discretionary or the non-discretionary piece both were pretty flat for the quarter.
There was a little bit of sequential growth and we're anticipating even a higher level of sequential growth next quarter in the air transport market.
Okay okay.
So you didn't see much specifically from any initial provisioning in this quarter? Nothing certainly nothing year-over-year that would have generated growth.
And would you expect assuming a 350 stays on track that’s something picks up next year or is that more of 2016 story? It's more of a next year story.
Yes we're actually hopeful that we get a little bit of initial provisioning for ‘15.
even in the end of this year we're going to be right on the fiscal year edge but it certainly will drive some growth throughout fiscal year '15.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Operator we have time for one more question.
The last question is from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Yes.
Patrick I just wanted to follow-up a little bit because I noticed that you said medical was higher this quarter but you also said it was higher last quarter so I mean is this going to be an ongoing trend? And then how much higher roughly was it? I mean we got to be talking maybe $5 million or more higher than what it was last year?  Yes I think your order of magnitude you are right; it’s roughly $5 million.
And yes we’ve had adverse trend this year.
We are hoping that that’s phenomenon that won’t recur.
We’re small enough population that a few large claims can swing the number pretty significantly and that’s what we are seeing this.
So again hopefully we’ll return progress to the mean over time here but certainly the last couple of quarters have been tough.
Okay.
But because even if you put all that together the incremental still weren’t as great this quarter do we start to see them look better in the subsequent quarter so mix had a lot to do with it this quarter as well?  I think mix was after considering the IPP and the medical the other story was mix.
We had a large portion of our growth was associated with this customer front in engineering which comes -- some of it comes at no margin some of it comes at a fairly low margin.
Okay.
Thanks again.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I’d now like to turn the call back over to Ryan Miller for any closing remarks.
Alright thank you Mike.
We’re going to file our 10-Q later today so please review that document for additional disclosures.
Thank you for joining us and participating on today’s conference call.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Tracy and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our webcast at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Well let me start by saying how pleased I am to finish the year with such a strong quarter.
It really puts a nice bow around what's been a very important and successful fiscal 2014.
Our performance in the fourth quarter provides a great launching point for what I believe will be an even better 2015.
During the past year we met or exceeded our guidance ranges for sales earnings and cash flow and our full year results are right in line with the 5-year outlook that we shared as part of our Investor Day last March.
Now if you'll recall at that time I said that we would increase shareowner value by accelerating our top line growth expanding our free cash flow and focusing on deployment of capital that balances growth with shareowner returns.
And I think you'll agree that judging from the results here today that our strategies have been pretty successful.
Overall we achieved 11% top line growth for the year resulting primarily from strong performance in 4 key areas.
First our commercial OEM business grew 9% driven by higher 787 and narrowbody rates and that's been amplified by our market share gains in the air transport segment.
Second our international business grew to 43% of our total revenue and with the inclusion now of ARINC it increased 18% from 2013 as we continue to successfully expand our global footprint across all of our segments.
Third we reshaped our government portfolio including selling some noncore elements.
Now if you look at the continued operations for our Government Systems business we declined just 2% compared to our initial guidance for the year which indicated we'd be down by mid-single digits.
And even more encouraging is that we expect this to be the last year of declines for our government business.
And then fourth we added the new segment to the company and a whole new growth platform for -- with the acquisition of ARINC and the subsequent creation of our Information Management Service business.
And for the last 3 quarters of the year IMS delivered strong performance with double-digit growth in the core aviation portion of the business.
So overall I give us high marks for what we did to achieve our top line growth in 2014 and just as important is the fact that this good work is going to continue to drive additional revenue for years to come.
Switching now to cash flow.
We finished the year with fourth quarter cash flow of $423 million and overall operating cash flow for 2014 increased 11% compared to our fiscal 2013.
What's more we achieved this improvement just as we expected with incremental margin growth from Commercial Systems continued strong cash performance from our Government Systems business and solid and predictable cash flows from Information Management Services.
Again as far as cash flow goes I'd give us pretty good marks across the board.
And finally our capital deployment strategy proved effective as we were able to successfully leverage our underutilized balance sheet to finance the ARINC acquisition.
And as I look at how the acquisition and integration has gone I'd say it's exceeding our expectations and it's showing signs of being a real great use of our capital.
In addition just last month we announced an additional $500 million in share repurchase authorization and that should give us the flexibility to address both debt paydown and shareowner return.
Turning now to fiscal 2015.
We're going to continue to focus on accelerating growth expanding cash flow and deploying our capital to support both growth and shareowner return.
We expect top line growth for the company in the mid-single-digit range driven by another year of high single-digit OEM growth led by new aircraft entries into service most notably the A350.
We also expect our overall Government Systems business to be flat when compared to 2014 and while flat may not seem that exciting it's a welcome change from the declines we have experienced over the last 4 years.
Now I'm especially pleased that we're able to achieve that flat forecast even without the JTRS Manpack LRIP extension that we've been concerned about this year which is indicative I think of the great job our Government Systems team has done managing through this difficult environment.
I might also add that we had a really good close to the year in terms of orders booking for our government business that will support our fiscal 2015 sales so it really feels like we're turning the corner in our defense business.
And of course we expect IMS -- the IMS business will continue to grow at near double-digit rate largely due to the strong demand from information management solutions in the aviation segment.
Now in terms of cash flow for fiscal year '15 we're expecting another year of substantial improvement with cash flow in the $675 million to $775 million range.
This increase will be fueled by margins in both -- or incremental margins in both Commercial Systems and Information Management Services and reduced company-funded spending on deferred engineering.
Now you should also expect to see higher levels of customer funding in our Commercial Systems business primarily from new international development work.
So customer funding is going to be a key ingredient of our continued cash flow improvement.
And finally we're committed to maintaining our capital deployment strategy.
We'll be looking for growth opportunities while continuing to return capital to shareowners through additional share repurchase.
So in summary 2014 was a really good year and I like how we finished the fourth quarter.
It tells me our strategies are working and I believe we're positioned to carry this momentum into fiscal 2015.
And so what I'd like to do now is turn it over to Patrick and have him walk us through the details of the financials.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the fourth quarter of 2014.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company fourth quarter sales earnings per share income from continuing operations and shares outstanding.
Total company sales for the quarter increased $183 million or 15% compared to the fourth quarter of last year.
Our fourth quarter sales included $144 million of revenue from the ARINC business acquired in December this year.
Income and earnings per share from continuing operations were about flat for the quarter.
Now adjusting for certain nonoperating items including differences in the availability of the Federal R&amp;D Tax Credit service center closure and pension settlement charges and the absence of a benefit from forfeitures for stock-based compensation in fiscal 2013 all of which are set forth in a reconciliation on Slide 15 of the deck fourth quarter earnings per share from continuing operations improved $0.10 or 8% over the prior year.
In addition incremental operating earnings from Commercial Systems and Information Management Services were partially offset by lower operating earnings from Government Systems and higher interest expense from the debt financing for the ARINC acquisition.
As we turn to Slide 4 Commercial Systems achieved revenue of $639 million in the quarter up 12% from $571 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $70 million or 23% to $380 million primarily due to increased deliveries for Boeing 787 and 737 aircraft; increased customer-funded development; higher sales for Chinese regional aircraft including the MA-600 and ARJ21; and initial hardware deliveries to support the A350 entry into service.
Now aftermarket sales were about flat during the quarter as higher service and support sales were offset by the completion of a large head-up display retrofit and a large sale of simulation training equipment both of which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Similar to what you saw this quarter and last quarter we're going to have some pretty tough comps in the first quarter 2015 for air transport aftermarket due to a number of lumpy retrofits and spares sales.
As an example if you remember we had a large 787 spares sale in the first quarter of 2014.
Once we get past the first quarter we don't expected air transport aftermarket to have as difficult comps for the rest of 2015.
Commercial Systems' operating earnings increased $21 million or 18% with operating margins improving 110 basis points from 21% to 22.1%.
Operating margin benefited from higher sales volume as well as the shift from company-funded research and development to more customer-funded development.
Moving on to Slide 5.
Note that the results of Datapath have been reclassified to discontinued operations as the business was sold in July.
During the fourth quarter Government Systems revenue decreased by 5% to $605 million driven by the wind-down of development effort on programs such as the KC-46 KC-135 and E-2 as well as lower deliveries of international targeting systems.
These decreases were partially offset by increased JTRS Manpack sales and higher Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems sales.
Government Systems' fourth quarter operating earnings decreased $14 million to $137 million resulting in an operating margin of 22.6% compared to 23.7% in the fourth quarter of last year.
The decreased operating earnings and margin resulted from the lower sales volume and higher bid and proposal expense.
Turning to Slide 6 you see Information Management Services which includes ARINC as well as our legacy flight services business.
During the fourth quarter ARINC contributed $144 million in revenue and the legacy flight services business contributed $14 million.
On a pro forma basis Information Management Services sales increased 16% over the prior year as aviation-related sales increased in the high teens related to our GLOBALink air-to-ground network and ARINC Direct our business jet connectivity and trip support.
And the airports and the transportation security businesses increased in the low double digits.
Operating margins for Information Management Services were 13.3% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.
If you remember during the first -- our first quarter earnings call we guided ARINC's adjusted EBITDA margins to be about 20%.
And I'm pleased to say that ARINC's adjusted EBITDA margins for the year came in at almost 21% as shown on Slide 14 due to the less-than-expected integration costs and better-than-expected margin performance.
Turning next to Slide 7.
We show our full year fiscal 2014 results for revenue income from continuing operations earnings per share and operating cash flow.
For the full year we generated $660 million of operating cash flow compared to $593 million last year.
The increase in operating cash flow of 11% was due to improvements in working capital and the acquisition of ARINC as well as lower pension plan contributions.
These improvements were partially offset by higher income tax payments and higher employee incentive payments.
The ARINC acquisition alone added $35 million to our operating cash flow net of interest and transaction costs and we expect ARINC's contribution to our operating cash flow will more than double next year in 2015.
Slide 8 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment for the full year.
Total spend increased from $917 million in fiscal 2013 to $934 million in fiscal 2014.
Company-funded R&amp;D declined $23 million due to a reduction in R&amp;D efforts on various next-generation business jet avionics development programs.
Customer-funded R&amp;D increased $23 million due to an increase in Commercial Systems' customer-funded development programs and higher amortization of preproduction engineering costs which was partially offset by the wind-down of a number of customer-funded development programs in Government Systems.
Preproduction engineering investment increased due to higher spend on the Boeing 737 MAX and Bombardier CSeries and Global 7000/8000 development programs.
Moving to Slide 9.
We show the status of our capital structure.
In the first quarter we issued $1.1 billion of long-term debt of which $900 million was used for the ARINC acquisition and the remainder was used to refinance $200 million of our debt that matured in December.
The balance of the ARINC acquisition was funded with commercial paper and during the fourth quarter we were able to pay down that commercial paper by $351 million.
As a result of the ARINC acquisition our current debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.9 as detailed on Slide 12.
I believe this level of debt still allows us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs and I expect it to modestly decline during fiscal 2015 as we balance the debt paydown with share repurchases dividends and hopefully some M&amp;A opportunities.
The updated status of the share repurchase program is detailed on Slide 10.
During the fourth quarter we repurchased 1.3 million shares at an average cost of $75.53.
With the additional $500 million authorization we announced in September our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the year was $705 million.
Now on to Slide 11 where we provide a summary of our fiscal year 2015 financial guidance which is unchanged from our initial guidance issued in September.
This guidance is right in line with our 5-year plan we laid out last March at our Investor Day.
Commercial Systems' OEM and aftermarket sales are expected to go high single digits.
Government Systems sales are expected to be about flat and Information Management Services sales are expected to grow near double digits.
We expect growth for earnings per share and cash flow from operations will be at higher levels compared to sales.
Earnings per share and cash flow from operations are expected to grow double digits at the midpoint of our guidance for FY 2015.
I expect the first quarter to have growth rates very similar to how we guided the full year.
The one area where I expect a little headwind in the first quarter is our tax rate.
We're exploring a number of potential tax-saving opportunities that will likely impact our tax rate in the second half of fiscal year 2015.
As a result we expect some lumpiness in the quarterly tax rate with it being about -- approximately 33% for the first 2 quarters and then lower in the back half of the year.
As a reminder our guidance assumes that we will not get any benefit from the Federal R&amp;D Tax Credit.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
[Operator Instructions] Operator we are now ready to open the line.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Joe Nadol from JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Just had a -- Kelly a couple of things on the IMS segment.
So wondering if you could just update us on from a high-level standpoint strategically how you're thinking about the ARINC portfolio.
You've been looking at I think a couple of the businesses in there to make sure that they made long-term sense for Collins.
So an update there.
Also an update on how you're looking at M&amp;A opportunities bolt-ons in that segment.
And then just finally from a financial standpoint if we look sequentially here your sales went up and your margins didn't.
And I realize there can be lumpiness quarter-to-quarter but how do we think about the results this quarter and the leverage that's in this business? Yes.
Joe let me just provide some overall color.
First of all the integration of the business is going quite well.
It's tracking to our plan in fact a little bit better than our plan.
And as you recall what we guided is that we would have about $10 million of synergy -- revenue synergies in our fiscal '15 about $2 million of synergies last year.
I think that's going really well.
In particular just at NBAA we announced the integration of our -- prior to the ARINC acquisition we had a business called Ascend which is flight support services.
They had an ARINC Direct business.
We were international they were domestic.
We've combined those 2 businesses and rebranded that as an ARINC Direct service offering and we're finding great synergies in that.
And in fact we had a very good show at NBAA.
We were booking orders at the show and also had a lot of good client contacts there.
So that's one of the initial major synergy activities and I feel really good about the progress we're making there.
There is just no question that this is a hot spot for growth.
There's more connectivity demands.
There's more information flowing to and from the aircraft.
So we continue to work the synergies.
I think that's a modest task for us to get to $10 million.
Remember that this is an annuity-based business so you kind of get a -- once you capture a customer that revenue continues once you sign them up for year-to-year.
Now in terms of that becomes a platform for growth for us I would really like to find some additional opportunities in the M&amp;A space to supplement that and complement that and we're working that space actively right now.
I think you're going to see they're probably smaller in size.
They're certainly not going to be anything of the ARINC size at least not initially but folks that can provide value-added applications or services that we can either bundle with our new broader offering or can provide some complementary offerings for our customers.
So I think that's going quite well.
And as it relates to the sequential margin Joe there were really 2 things that influenced the margin walk from third quarter to fourth quarter.
First was in the third quarter we had a couple of million dollars of adjustment -- positive adjustment related to amortization.
That was a cumulative catch-up in the third quarter.
And then the second thing is integration costs were a little bit higher in the fourth quarter than they were in the third quarter just timing of expenditures.
Those were the 2 things that impacted the sequential margins going from the third to the fourth.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Just on the -- just wanted to clarify one thing.
We're not looking now for any divestitures coming out of the business? Or is that still under evaluation? Well we still have the ASES component that we announced with the acquisition that we're going to divest of that.
I'm hopeful that we'll get that done here this first quarter of fiscal '15.
So other than that no.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk a little bit more about this shift from company-funded R&amp;D to customer-funded R&amp;D on the commercial side? Is this one particular program? Or is this some sort of a shift in terms of how you're doing the business model for future development? Well no it's not 1 program and it is a shift in some of our emphasis.
And it's a part of our overall focus to improve our cash flow.
We've got as you know quite a few international programs.
I'll pick one as an example the Mitsubishi Regional Jet where we're doing the development work for Mitsubishi.
As that program delays and as additional scope is requested for that we're -- rather than funding that ourselves we're going to our customer and having them support us with nonrecurring funding.
And I think you're going to see that more prominent out of our commercial business going forward programs like the recent Chinese MA700 program that we just announced.
LLC Research Division</strong> And does it have any implications for what the profitability looks like on the back end if they help fund on the development? No not profitability in terms of the profitability on the delivery of the equipment.
It will impact the incremental margins because the customer-funded development it does come at lower margins than our product sales but certainly higher margins than expensed R&amp;D.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Patrick just can you share what's the assumed incentive compensation change from '14 to '15 given the strong '14 and then the relatively strong stock price as well? I would say that there really isn't significant change from '14 to '15.
It will be up a little bit but not much.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Looking at Commercial Systems the margin improvement that you forecast for next year 50 to 100 basis points.
Can you just talk about the drivers how we get there given the headwind that you've got from preproduction amortization and just overall higher R&amp;D? And then I think most of the growth is going to be coming from some of your newer programs where the margin profile is going to be a little bit lower.
Yes.
And David I'd say that the margin guidance that we have is pretty consistent with what we've said in terms of as the amortization ramps up we're not going to see as-healthy incremental margins.
But as I look year-to-year we've got obviously very strong sales or reasonably strong sales growth on the Commercial Systems side both aftermarket and OEM.
And although there is some new product there is also a lot of -- the aftermarket sales are very high profit.
I don't think -- as I think about it I don't think R&amp;D is going to be a particular headwind next year.
So the way I'd characterize it is you've got strong margins on the incremental sales and then offset by the ramp-up in the amortization of the deferred.
Those are the 2 main drivers as we're looking at the Commercial Systems margin expansion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then your aftermarket forecast for high single digit next year can you parse that between just market growth -- airline capacity growth and what you're expecting from the mandate side? I would characterize it this way.
If you look at the business jet side I think both the -- what I'll call the market growth and the retrofit spares and mandates they're going to grow pretty similarly maybe a little bit higher on the retrofit side but not much.
On the air transport side we're looking at MRO growth more in the low single digits and then that will be offset -- or that will be enhanced by sales of retrofit programs like the 767 displays retrofit we're doing and accelerating mandate revenues.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Kelly I was wondering if you could just spend a few minutes talking about the military avionics market and the competitive landscape that is developing in that market and the impacts of the open-architecture system and how you think that plays out over the longer term.
And then just talk a little bit about the major drivers of that market going forward where there are opportunities for new projects and where there might be some risks.
Well first of all if you look at our total avionics portfolio we're expecting that to be our strongest portfolio next year -- or fiscal '15 out of our government portfolio.
If you look at the key drivers there programs like KC-10 KC-135 some international C-130s are examples of growth in the fixed wing.
The CH-47 multiyear has driven some growth this year.
It will continue to grow nicely in fiscal '15.
And then we've gained share at AgustaWestland across their helicopter platforms.
That will continue to grow as well.
You know we have positions on the F-35.
So as F-35 ramps up in production we'll also see some growth there.
Relative to the open architecture you're probably talking about the display -- the Blackhawk display program.
The Navy has been moving to an open-systems architecture definition.
They define that as an acronym called FACE and they're looking for next-generation avionics that are FACE-compliant.
And it's really a concept of allowing further software updates to be done in a way that's not proprietary to the original OEM.
That's a space that we play in and we've always played in.
I think as we brought our Flight2 avionics into the market that's one of the ways we differentiated in the market was bringing open systems commercially derived open systems technology.
So I don't see that as a competitive threat.
I think that's an opportunity for us going forward.
Your next question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A question on -- just a clarification on IMS.
Patrick could you remind us what the depreciation and amortization expense is estimated for '15? The amortization is about $26 million.
Depreciation I'm a little less -- I'm looking at Ryan right now.
I'm not sure what depreciation is.
I think it's probably adds another $10 million to $15 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you mentioned that you thought the IMS cash flows would double.
Is that correct? From...
Yes.
We actually said more than double yes.
That's all -- just to be clear that's all in including the interest costs as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly where did international government sales end for the year? And what's the expectation for that going forward in '15? International ended up up about 7% for fiscal '14 all in and we're expecting that growth to be in that same range as we go into fiscal '15.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And Kelly did it have -- as a percentage of overall sales is it still tracking around between 25% 30%? It's a little higher now as we continue to grow.
So are you asking a Government Systems question? Or are you asking an overall? Research Division</strong> Yes just Government Systems.
Okay.
Yes our Government Systems business we're growing in a mid-single-digit growth and that's 31% to 32% overall mix.
And Peter just to follow up on the depreciation and amortization question for IMS.
All in it's about $40 million.
About $26 million of that is amortization of purchase accounting.
Your next question comes from the line of John Godyn with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> There has been a lot of excitement recently about biz jet in particular.
It is that time of year.
We just had NBAA.
I'm just curious.
Could you offer maybe a bit more of a detailed update on the outlook for biz jet? At what point do we feel confident that we've turned a corner? And is there anything in terms of reading the tea leaves in your aftermarket versus OE exposures that sort of gives you any signal as to where we are in the cycle? Well I think we're clearly seeing some signs of improvement in the overall business aviation market-space.
Now remember that for our business that's got to convert to -- excitement converting to orders for new aircraft converting to larger backlogs and finally converting to higher production rates out of the OEMs.
And so we've been -- while we're seeing some positive indicators I think we're still a ways away from seeing any kind of major uplift to the market in terms of OEM rates.
Now the market good news is being consumed as we expected by the new aircraft entries into the market and we'll enjoy some of that too as the Legacy 500 for example now certified comes into production here in '15.
Research Division</strong> And just to clarify has anything changed meaningfully in the last couple of months that you've noticed? No.
I would say nothing meaningfully that's going to create a material change.
Now let me come back to the aftermarket portion of your question.
The MRO portion of the business we have seen particularly in the low -- back half of the year we've seen utilization rates come up.
And remember that most of that -- most of our aftermarket MRO business is on a per-flight-hour contract.
So that's driven growth here and we're expecting that to continue to improve provide us a little bit of an uplift there.
We're also -- in the aftermarket we've got this phenomenon of a lot of Pro Line 21 avionics coming out of warranty that we delivered back when the market was booming.
And so that will also give us a little bit of a tailwind.
I would expect our MRO business in biz av will grow a little bit better than the underlying market.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Kelly could you talk a little bit more about domestic Government Systems and the trends in -- within your flattish guidance overall for the segment in '15? I think you've included sequestration there.
So when would we see a bottom in this business? Or does it not actually bottom in fiscal '15? What we'll see is a very slight decline domestically in '15 and obviously some growth international and that's how we'll get to the flat.
I do think it bottoms out then and we're hopeful that we'll start to see as we've projected low single-digit growth going forward.
Research Division</strong> So you're talking about the U.S.
there the low single digit? Yes.
Well we'll start to see low single-digit overall growth out of our business but I am expecting that will bottom out our domestic business in '15.
Research Division</strong> Is that back end of the year? Or...
I don't really -- I'm not ready to answer that yet.
We'll see how the year goes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going back to the biz jet question before.
Again I want to make sure I'm understanding you.
You're really seeing the new entrants -- or the new aircraft entrants drive your business here not so much a pickup in same-store sales so to speak.
In other words.
.
.
That's right.
You should think that there's no tide lifting the overall market.
Our growth in '15 is going to almost be exclusively driven by new entries.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Because my sense is the light end of the market is still firmly planted in the sand here.
And you would agree? Yes.
I'd agree with that.
And my comment is I think that the positive signs we've seen have given us confidence that we're at the bottom.
It hasn't given me any confidence that we're recovering.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at the high end we've had some competitive introductions recently and perhaps some new technology in the cockpit coming with that.
Is there anything you need to do to keep up with that? No.
We've known about that for a long time so that's not a new development.
As you know we've introduced our no -- new Pro Line Fusion EDS system including touchscreen displays and a lot of the common technology.
By the way those new platforms still include our head-up display systems.
So I -- there's nothing that surprised me out of that and I think we're well suited to continue to compete and win in that marketplace.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai Von Rumohr with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> So could you give us some sense of the profile of government as we go through the year? And maybe update us on where we are regarding Manpack.
Well let me start with the Manpack.
So as you recall we were -- throughout the year we've been looking for an LRIP -- another LRIP extension.
We took that out of our guidance for '15 and it looks like that was probably a wise decision.
Since the last quarter call the Army has released a test report on the Manpack performance in the field.
They've deemed it suitable for use and meets all the requirements for vehicular-mounted solutions but not suitable for Manpack for the backpack version.
And the interesting thing of that is that radio meets all of its performance specs.
They acknowledge that but now they're saying "Well maybe we asked for the wrong thing in terms of weight and [indiscernible] Manpacks." So I think our opportunity to get another LRIP order would be limited right now to man-portable version and quite frankly I don't think we're even going to get that.
So the Army is sorting out what they're going to do and how they're going to move to production with this new test report.
My suspicion is is that they're going to have to come to grips with the size weight power needs that they have versus the functional requirements of the radio.
And Cai as it relates to the kind of the sequential profile of the Government Systems sales I think you're going to see the flat punch [ph] play out pretty much every quarter within a couple of points one way or the other.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as the second one you had this terrific cash flow in the fourth quarter and you were a bit less aggressive than I would have thought in terms of share repurchase.
So you clearly have more firepower.
Should we read in that your relative priority on potential M&amp;A has increased? Well I wouldn't necessarily read that.
I think our M&amp;A strategy always takes priority to share repurchases.
And I wouldn't reflect it -- I wouldn't say that our activity has been a reflection of our M&amp;A appetite.
It's probably more -- got more to do with when we restarted the program.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then last one.
So do you have a fairly full pipeline of opportunities so that maybe within the next 3 to 4 months we're likely to see a couple of smaller deals? And to Joe's first question are you giving more serious consideration to possible divestitures of additional -- like some of the pieces of ARINC that may not fit quite as well? Well again let me repeat.
Other than the ASES I don't think you're going to see any further divestitures from us and I feel pretty good about where our government portfolio is in that respect as well.
So divestitures no don't expect much from us there.
In terms of the opportunities I don't want to get too much into that but we're working some right now.
I'd say the pipeline is okay.
It's not as robust as I'd like.
So we're going to continue to focus in that particular area.
The timing is -- we don't control the timing.
That's a 2-party dance.
So we'll just have to see whether we get any of these opportunities to pop here in the next quarter or so.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Kelly could you discuss the competitive environment with ARINC? I mean I hear that there's another competitor or potential competitor moving into the marketplace because they see the attractiveness of it.
So can you just update us on how you look at that? Well I'm not sure what you're referring to.
So it depends on the segment that we're talking about.
If you look at the core aviation for the -- I'm sorry.
Honey -- I was going to say like Honeywell is one that's saying that they're going to try and enter some of that market so that was one that I had in mind.
Okay.
So one thing that I think needs to be well understood is that there's really 2 pieces to this connectivity story in the marketplace.
There's safety services connectivity which is what ARINC fundamentally is strong in and what they do.
And there's really 2 companies that do that ARINC and Xena [ph].
The opportunity -- we have not been a strong cabin connectivity supplier and that's a space that we're looking at.
We've teamed with Inmarsat to be a value-added reseller of their next-generation connectivity solution but that's for what I'll call open-world cabin connectivity.
So you ought to view that more as an opportunity not as a competitive threat.
Now I will grant you there are a lot of people in that space right now and I think how we play and how successful we are is something we're continuing to work going forward.
Okay.
And then one for Patrick.
If you could just break out -- the large commercial aftermarket was down 6% and you commented it was high retrofit last year.
Could you break that out in terms of the different subsectors? How much was actually aftermarket retrofit MRO? George I'd tell you that all of the decline was the retrofit and MRO decline.
And if you look back at last year I think we were looking at 15% growth in our quarter.
So we had a really unusually strong growth in that segment of the business last year.
And so what I'd say is the basic MRO continued on the path it's been on which is modest growth and the decline was all due to particularly retrofit programs.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping to start on the cash flow from where you did a strong performance in '14 to the walk to '15.
So Patrick I think you said it's greater than $35 million incremental contribution from ARINC deferred preproduction on -- excuse me deferred preproduction net growth will be a tailwind of $40 million net income another $30 million offset by CapEx.
And that's before considering lower pension and higher noncash amortization.
So the roundabout question is it looks like you're comfortably about $725 million to $750 million.
But then there's things like taxes and other items.
Is there a big tax swing coming your way? Or are you comfortably in that range? I wouldn't attribute it to taxes.
I think what we're going to see is first of all there will be some incremental I'll say customer incentive activity where we're going to be shipping some free-of-charge equipment.
That's not a huge swinger.
But I also would say -- I'd tell you that the pension tailwind you've identified doesn't exist.
I think we're going to be about flat year-over-year on pensions.
So we're certainly hopeful we'll deliver good cash flow results.
But I think you -- I think at least 1 part of your equation won't be a tailwind and that's the pension piece.
Research Division</strong> And in the P&amp;L is pension a tailwind to you on a noncash basis? A little bit of one.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And the other one so where did the backlog end the year for defense in terms of posturing you for a flat production? Do you have better visibility? I know last year when the backlogs closed you were kind of clawing back in the first part of the year.
It sounds like the backlog closed in a much better position.
Is that right? It did yes.
I think we built a little bit of backlog this year not as much as we'd like but certainly it's supporting the flat sales for next year.
And you're right I think the orders closed quicker this year than they did last year so we're in a better position as we exit the year.
Myles as we look at our backlog it's really important at least from a '15 perspective that we look at what component of that backlog has to -- do we need to book and convert in the same year.
As I look at our numbers and the percentage that have to book and convert this year '15 versus our historical performance they look pretty good.
So that's -- to my comment of we had a good quarter not only did we book orders we booked the right orders that will allow us to get to that flat in '15.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just wondered if we could delve into the performance in IMS sequentially and year-over-year.
It looks like by my math the -- it seems like the airport and rail business was probably up decently sequentially after last quarter having that falloff.
Is that right? And then on the full year it would seem that the apples-to-apples comparison would have the whole business growing about mid-single digits as opposed to the kind of underlying core high single-digit number you guys have been talking about and targeting.
Is that correct? Am I missing something? And if so what's -- what are the real drivers there? Well let me answer the sequential question first.
I would say it's a yes.
The airports and the rail and security businesses did better fourth quarter to third quarter so that was a driver of the incremental revenue -- a portion of the incremental revenue gain.
As it relates to next year we're forecasting high single-digit revenue -- or actually approaching double-digit revenue growth in IMS.
We'll see I think probably a disproportionate share of that in the first quarter because we'll have some favorable comps there but solid growth particularly in the aviation-related businesses throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> No.
I was talking about fiscal '14.
It looked like it was a mid-single digit year-over-year growth.
Is that correct? Mid-single digit year-over-year growth for the full year? Research Division</strong> Yes apples to apples.
No.
I'd say apples to apples the growth was 13-ish.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a quick one on the 787 sparing the tough compare you talked about there can we get any color on kind of magnitude what we should be thinking about that influencing the compare for the upcoming quarter is? Is this a sort of $10 million to $20 million kind of thing? Is that about the right way to think about it? Yes.
I think you're going to see low single-digit kind of performance in that space in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert with Canaccord Genuity.
Research Division</strong> Kelly or Patrick just first can you talk -- I know you're probably starting to see some of this but can you talk about A350 provisioning and how that ramps across fiscal '15? Well -- so first of all A350 provisioning is a growth area for us.
It's not as significant as what we saw with 787 because of the few number of different customers that are taking the initial aircraft.
So we'll have some provisioning.
It's just not going to be quite as material as what you probably see from us on 87.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And think of that maybe as more of a back half event or do you really start to see...
Well we'll have the initial provisioning in the front half for Emirates.
And then because they're taking quite a few of the initial aircraft we won't see much provisioning until the back half beyond that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just one additional question Kelly.
I understand from an M&amp;A standpoint but if you look at investment from your internal R&amp;D efforts how would you characterize the IMS business now relative to the commercial business? Maybe are you seeing more opportunities there to really grow that business? Because you're obviously coming off a fairly significant investment and a number of share gains in the other legacy Collins business I guess.
How would you characterize IMS within that as you look at investments? Well I think there's -- first of all the IMS business does not require near the R&amp;D investment that the core product business does.
So we've provisioned some additional CapEx in our plan for '15 to help build out some network infrastructure and do some software updates to help drive the growth.
I think what you'll see is is that the IMS business is not going to be a big discretionary consumer but probably more opportunities in the M&amp;A space to support the growth there.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Maybe Kelly just to stay on the -- or to go back to the Government Systems segment the backlog the visibility.
You took out the Manpack which I guess was $100 million.
I guess just last week you got about $100 million order which is all shippable this year for the AN/ARC radios.
Was that something that was in your kind of sales funnel or sales pipeline and kind of maybe fills that gap from the Manpack? Yes.
I mean those were all anticipated orders.
We don't -- those aren't kind of pop-up surprise things.
That's an annual -- an annual buy that we've had in our forecast all along.
Our Manpack just to be clear is going to be about a $90 million headwind for us in fiscal '15.
That is being offset in our communications portfolio a little bit by growth in data links and other radio equipment.
But if I characterize '15 for our Government Systems you're -- the Manpack is going to drive down our comm portfolio a little bit and we're going to see that being offset by growth in our aviation portfolio.
And then I'd say our nav and surface kind of balance each other out.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one final one.
On the commercial side just thinking about some of the maybe headwinds out there specifically Bombardier.
Are those creating a disproportionate amount of pressure this year specifically CSeries and maybe Learjet? Were those baked into your plan? Or just some perspective on what's going on with those programs.
Yes.
We've -- there is no Lear 85 revenues in our plan for '15 so we've taken all that out and de-risked it.
At the last call I talked about 1 point of impact on CSeries.
In fact we've de-risked that as well and so we have about 0.5 point of CS Commercial Systems revenue associated with CSeries in the plan.
I have to tell you that I think that's not major risk to that CSeries.
They're back flying.
Whether the schedule holds or not is not in our control but I think we'll see at least a good portion of that revenue that we have in the plan on CSeries.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Two things Kelly.
One could you talk a little bit more about I mean broader bid and proposal opportunities both commercial and military? We realize there's still 777X opportunities out there.
And my sense is that new business jets have not gone away and you may have actually landed a couple of suites on some nice platforms.
Well -- so let me start with 777X.
I had hoped that -- and I think I'd said at the last call that we should have that wrapped up by this call and we're not yet wrapped up.
Don't read anything into that.
I think that we're very close and working through that program with Boeing.
And as I've said I'm very confident in our opportunities to gain some share there on the 777 program.
We've got some big programs in the defense business that we're pursuing.
There's a big proprietary OEM program that our Government Systems folks have been working on.
We've got a new unannounced platform in that space as well.
So yes there continues to be opportunities for us to grow in both segments of the market there with new platforms.
Research Division</strong> And then to go to unmanned systems you've made an acquisition a couple of years ago I think for flight controls.
And there's lots of different ways that market can evolve and you have a lot of capability there from data links to avionics.
Where do you see that opportunity? How big can it be? And I'm sure timing is very difficult.
Yes.
Timing is interesting.
The reality is as we pulled out of Iraq and Afghanistan and retracted the production rates of unmanned platforms have declined.
And so the market -- while the idea and the concept is robust and I think there'll be a big future for it the near-term market is not that strong.
We're well equipped with our Athena acquisition as you point out to provide communications navigation flight control systems.
We're working with the FAA and NASA right now on defining the next generation of control links to the UAS to allow it to operate in the national airspace.
You may have seen we've done a technology program where we actually used our Pro Line Fusion system on the ground as the control center for a Bonanza aircraft flying unmanned.
And so I think there's going to be opportunities in both the commercial and the government space.
But the thing we've got to really work on now is the ability for them to safely operate in commercial airspace which means civil certification control links that are high availability and reliability and that's good space for us.
So I think this is going to be a good market.
Near term I just don't see a lot of growth just because of the dynamics of Iraq and Afghanistan.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Patrick have you stated or quantified how much share repurchase or share count change is embedded in the fiscal '15 earnings outlook? No we have not.
Research Division</strong> Could you? No.
We typically don't because there are a lot of variables Noah.
We already talked about acquisition activities cash flow both the amount and the timing.
So we don't intend to commit to a specific share repurchase amount.
Research Division</strong> Does the outlook assume something greater than 0? Yes it does.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the aftermarket outlook can you quantify what you see the large commercial air transport aftermarket growing and what you see regional business jet aftermarket growing in '15? I think they're going to be pretty comparable if you look at the rates of growth.
Again air transport is going to be driven by mandates.
The 2 mandates we have should peak out in '15 so we'll get some growth there.
MRO is going to be kind of the normal run rate.
We continue to be successful in our used parts business with Intertrade to offset some of the recycling that's going on in the MRO market initial provisioning as we've talked about for A350.
And then Pat mentioned in his prepared remarks about retrofits on 757 67.
What that is is that it was just announced that we got certification of that and we're bringing the 787 display system into a 75 76 update.
And we've got a launch customer for that and some good prospects for some follow-on opportunities as well.
Research Division</strong> So I guess as I stare at the model I'm just wondering how much risk there is to the air transport side growing upper single digits in the aftermarket.
Because you had the difficult comp in the first quarter and while it's a difficult comp from a growth rate perspective it looks like last year sequentially that piece didn't really change that much second and third quarter.
So it doesn't look like on an absolute basis the comps get that much easier.
And if it's going to be closer to flat in the first quarter you would need it to really accelerate a lot in the back half.
Am I missing something on that math? Or does it just grow a lot faster in the back half? Well we're dealing with relatively small numbers and spares orders and retrofit programs in this space can have a substantial change in those growth rates.
I have to tell you I'm not too concerned about the overall risk to that air transport aftermarket.
I think our opportunities balance our risks.
Where we've seen -- and I'll use '14 as an example.
Where we've seen growth a little bit lower than we expected is more in the discretionary biz av market-space.
It's been very good in cabin upgrades and we're expecting that to continue but the avionics mods have been a little bit slower than we anticipated.
So if there's any risk that I see in the aftermarket it's a little bit around biz av avionics mods.
But it's -- that's a very manageable amount with the balance of the opportunities we have across the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last one.
Does this 21% growth in regional and business jet original equipment in the quarter -- I know you gave a little bit of color and specified the Chinese aircraft there but can you just dig a little further into that? Because the absolute number is pretty large relative to where you've been run-rating and then you're calling for the growth rate to slow right away now.
Yes.
And I would say this to put a little bit more color on it it is entirely in the regional jet area.
And I'd say probably relatively evenly split between the deliveries of equipment for the Chinese regional jets as well as customer funding on a couple of international regional jets.
So both of those things tend to come in kind of big lumps but those -- that's what's driving the growth this year -- this quarter I mean.
Research Division</strong> So that was lumpy in the quarter and you don't see it in the next few quarters? Well what I would say is I think you're going to continue to see us generating customer-funded revenue for development.
The sale to the Chinese was a pretty big lump so yes that won't recur.
Research Division</strong> Could you quantify that piece? I want to say it's about half of that 21% growth.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Research Division</strong> My answers have been taken care of -- my questions have been taken care of.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thanks David.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Ryan Miller for any closing remarks.
Thank you Tracy.
We plan to file our Form 10-K probably in about 3 weeks so please review that document for additional disclosures.
Thank you for joining us today and participating on today's conference call.
Thank you for joining.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins first quarter fiscal year 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Shawn and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we will be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide two of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I will now turn the call over to Kelly.
Thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
We are off to a great start to our fiscal year 2015 plan.
After our strong fourth quarter last year I am pleased to say that we have followed up with another great quarter of sales and earnings growth led by our Commercial Systems and Information Management Services businesses.
And as we expected we are seeing continued stabilization in our government systems revenues.
We were also able to deliver some really strong margin performance in all of the businesses which I think demonstrates our ability to provide the incremental margin growth that's an important element of our plan.
Our first quarter results are very consistent with our outlook that we projected at our Investor Day now almost a year ago.
And if you recall at that time I said that the priorities for increasing shareowner value would be accelerating our topline growth expanding our free cash flow and deploying our capital to balance both growth and shareowner returns and we are doing that.
This quarter we delivered 16% topline growth as we again benefited from the acquisition of ARINC in addition to the organic growth.
We delivered 20.6% operating margins with expansion across all of our businesses.
And we delivered 29% earnings per share growth as a result of our strong performance aided by the retroactive R&amp;D tax credit as well as share repurchases.
Now I would like to also highlight a few of the important program related milestones we hit during the quarter.
As you all know Airbus made the first delivery of its A350 which features the most Rockwell Collins content of any aircraft at Airbus.
This starts the wind down of the very significant investment phase and we begin reaping the return on this investment which we will enjoy for years to come.
We also saw the first flight of the Boeing KC-46 tanker which features significant content from Rockwell Collins both from an avionics perspective as well as a mission systems perspective.
This marks a major milestone in our strategy to bring commercial technology and products into the military market.
And then the much-anticipated new business highlights for the quarter was the finally announced wins on the 777X.
This includes the standard large-format flight displays as well as optional dual head-up displays the standard integrated surveillance system which incorporates our weather radar our traffic collision avoidance system or TCAS our terrain awareness system or TAS and the transponder for the aircraft all of which are selectable BFE on existing 777s and now will be sole-sourced to Rockwell Collins on the 777X.
The integrated surveillance system also provides the onboard traffic computer for current and future ADS-B applications.
We were also selected for a number of flight control systems in addition to the previously announced integrated flight control electronics fly by wire system for the aircraft in partnership with BAE.
These results represent a significant market share win for Rockwell Collins and all in I expect the 777X will represent about $2 billion in sales for Rockwell Collins over the life of the program.
Now let we remind you that with this position we now provide the common state-of-the-art flight deck technologies and products for all of Boeing's next-generation airplanes including the 787 the 737 MAX the KC-46 or 767 and now the 777X.
So we feel really good about the continued growth in revenues that these positions should provide our company.
And as I have been indicating all along our plan is to fund the 777X development within our existing R&amp;D expense budget.
So we won't be further leveraging our balance sheet for this program all very consistent with our improved cash flow plan.
Now looking beyond the quarter at the balance of fiscal 2015 with one quarter in the books and everything is looking good.
So we are flowing the full R&amp;D tax benefit into our full year earnings per share and cash flow guidance.
Longer-term I believe we are on path for our sustained growth we are seeing the stabilization in defense in business aviation and we are seeing anticipated growth in air transport and information management services.
And fitting the 777X into our expensed R&amp;D budget is an important indication of our serious focus on improving our cash flow performance without sacrificing long-term growth opportunities for the company.
And finally we are committed to maintaining our capital deployment strategy as we continue pursuing growth opportunities while returning capital to shareowners through additional share repurchases.
So in summary the first quarter was a great start to our year.
It tells me our strategies are working and I believe we are well positioned to carry that momentum through the balance of fiscal 2015 and beyond.
So with that as a little bit of an overview let me turn it over now to Patrick to walk us through the financial details of the quarter.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I would now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the first quarter of 2015.
I will begin on slide three where we highlight our total company first quarter sales net income earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Total company sales for the quarter increased $172 million or 16% compared to first quarter 2014 sales.
Now our first quarter 2015 sales did include $137 million of ARINC revenue compared to $6 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Income from continuing operations improved $35 million due to the retroactive extension of the Federal R&amp;D tax credit as well as higher earnings from both commercial systems and ARINC.
Earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.28 to $1.26 due to higher net income as well as a lower share count due to our share repurchase program.
Looking next to our operating cash flow from continuing operations for the first quarter we used $60 million of cash compared to use of $24 million last year.
The higher use of cash is due principally to the timing of receivable collections which was partially offset by a full quarter of cash flows from ARINC higher organic earnings and lower tax payments.
As we turn to slide four Commercial Systems achieved revenue of $568 million in the quarter up 9% from $521 million in the first quarter of 2014.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $45 million or 16% to $331 million primarily due to higher OEM production rates improved share of airline selectable equipment and higher customer funded development program sales as the trend toward higher customer funded R&amp;D in commercial systems continues.
Aftermarket sales increased $5 million or 2% to $221 million due to higher service and support revenues partially offset by the absence of a large delivery of spare parts for the Boeing 787 GoldCare program in the first quarter of 2014.
Now Commercial Systems first quarter operating earnings increased 13% to $125 million in 2015 with operating margins expanding 70 basis points from 21.3% to 22%.
The increase in operating earnings and margins was primarily due to the higher sales.
Moving on to slide five.
Government systems revenue decreased by 1% to $509 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
As you look revenue by category sales of avionics increased $3 million or 1% from higher deliveries of tanker transport hardware.
Communication product sales declined $9 million or 9% primarily due to lower JTRS Manpack deliveries partially offset by higher ARC-210 hardware sales.
And both surface solutions and navigation product sales were about flat.
Government first quarter operating earnings increased $1 million to $106 million resulting in an operating margin of 20.8% compared to 20.4% in the first quarter of last year.
The increased operating earnings and margins resulted from favorable mix partially offset by higher working expense due to favorable warranty adjustments recorded in the first quarter of 2014.
Turning to slide six you see information management services which includes ARINC as well as our legacy flight services business.
During the first quarter ARINC contributed $137 million of revenue compared to $6 million in the prior year which represented just a partial week of revenue since the date of acquisition was December 23 2013.
All remaining revenues are related to the legacy Rockwell Collins flight services business.
Now on a pro forma basis information management services sales increased 20% over the prior year.
About half of this increase relates to double-digit sales growth in aviation related sales and about half relates to some unfavorable contract adjustments recorded in the first quarter 2014 which related to some rail programs.
Information management services had an operating margin of 14.1% in the quarter and during the quarter ARINC delivered EBITDA margin of 23.4% reflecting a significantly improved performance over the prior year where ARINC had adjusted EBITDA margins of 20.9%.
Slide seven provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the first quarter of the year.
Total R&amp;D investment increased $12 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period last year.
The increase was due primarily to $20 million in higher customer funded R&amp;D on international commercial systems programs $4 million of higher company funded R&amp;D and $12 million of lower preproduction engineering spend.
The lower preproduction engineering spend was due primarily to lower spend on the A350 program.
And looking to the full year we expect total R&amp;D to be about $1 billion which is up $50 million from our initial guide with the majority of the increase coming from customer funded R&amp;D in both commercial systems and government systems.
Moving to slide eight we show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the first quarter compared to the end of last year.
During the quarter our debt to EBITDA ratio edged up to 2.0 from 1.9 at year-end.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in commercial paper used to fund share repurchases.
I believe this level of debt still provides us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs and I expect it to come down over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow traditionally results later in the year and we pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
And we expect to continue paying down the commercial paper balance over the course of the next few years.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the first quarter is detailed on slide nine.
During the first quarter we repurchased 2.2 million shares at an average cost of $80.45.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was $131 million.
I would like to turn now to our final slide slide 10 where we provide the details of our updated fiscal year 2015 financial guidance for continuing operations.
Guidance for sales operating earnings is unchanged from our initial guide last September.
Due to the retroactive extension of the Federal R&amp;D tax credit we improved our guidance range for earnings per share by $0.20 and our guidance range for cash flow from operations by $25 million.
We have also increased our research and development investment by $50 million to about $1 billion as I mentioned previously.
And our guidance for capital expenditures remains unchanged at about $200 million for the year.
That completes my review of financial results and projections.
So Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
In order to give everyone the opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit your questions to one per caller.
If you have further questions simply reinsert yourself into the queue and we will answer those additional questions as time permits.
Operator we are now ready to open the lines.
[Operator Instructions].
Your first question comes from line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Carter.
Just on just a quick question just to start on ARINC and IMS just as we try to learn this business a little bit better.
It obviously grew a lot year-over-year.
Pat you talked about the negative adjustment there given about half of that growth.
But if you look at that business sequentially it looked to the to be down and I wondered if you might come and give us some color if that's seasonality or if there is lumpiness in that airports and rail business that I think we have seen in the past couple of quarters? Can you give us a sense of what that business look likes sequentially and maybe in the component pieces of airports and rail and other? Yes.
I think it's a little bit of both Carter.
If you are thinking about the projects business there is a seasonality element to it just because we have fewer working days in the quarter.
The other part of it though is some inherent lumpiness particularly in the airports business between the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
The combination of those two things really led to the sequential decline.
So I think going forward as we understand the business more you are going to see a sequential or you are going to see a seasonality component to our first quarter but there will always be that lumpiness that's less predictable in the airports business.
Okay.
So it's reasonable to assume that going forward and if we exclude airports and rail we will still see a seasonal a very modest decline in Q1? I think that's a fair way to think about it.
Yes.
Okay and just as a quick follow-up is there any financial implications to know because of the Lear 85 pause? How are you think about that? Well from the Lear 85 we have about $30 million a little bit less than $30 million deferred on our balance sheet.
We do have a contractual guarantee related to it and we been through the contractual and legal reviews.
We feel very comfortable that it's an enforceable contractual guarantee.
What we are working through right now with Bombardier is what is the future of that program and I think it's fair to say there is a lot of uncertainty around that right now but we have $30 million deferred and we anticipate no write-off.
Okay.
Carter this is Kelly.
Let me give you a little more maybe longer-term color there.
This doesn't come as a surprise that the program was paused.
We took the revenue as you know out of our forecast for 2015.
Now we do have the Lear 85 program baked into our long-term outlook.
So it will be interesting to see does the program come back on or do we go to termination.
As Pat said I am not worried about the liability of the deferred engineering.
In terms of long-term impact to us it kind of depends on what happens.
I am sure if the program doesn't come back online that the demand for the airplanes won't go away.
It will just go to different places then Bombardier will likely try to move them into one of their other aircraft like a Challenger 350.
If they lose those customers they are likely to go either to Cessna Embraer or Gulfstream IAI.
So it's kind of depending on how that all works will determine whether there is net impact to us in the long run.
My feeling on this is that if this allows Bombardier to be more successful on their schedule on CSeries and the Global 7000/8000 I think it's probably net a good thing for us.
Okay great.
Thank you for the color Kelly.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Nadol from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Joe.
So Patrick on the receivables could you outline a little bit the higher-than-expected level I guess from my standpoint in Q1? Just outline whether it was largely billed or unbilled? And then maybe any color you can give by business line or customer? First of all it's largely billed.
And when I say timing it really is timing.
As a matter of fact we saw significant collections week and week following the quarter-end.
And that happens to us every once in a while just because most of our customers have 12/31 year-ends and they are managing their cash flow carefully.
So I don't anticipate any issue for the full year with respect to cash flow.
It really was just a quarter timing issue.
In terms of on a by customer basis it was sort of all over the map there.
There were no significant individual customers that I would point to.
Okay.
The increase in your cash flow guidance obviously you had the tax credit you upped your R&amp;D.
Could you just build a bridge for us how you are able to raise the cash flow guidance despite the higher R&amp;D? Yes.
Well the higher R&amp;D is largely customer funded.
So it's not going to be in a way it’s going to be a positive cash flow impact for us.
And then the R&amp;D tax credit I think it's probably to the tune of about $30 million of cash flow for us.
So when you combine the two that leads us to the cash flow increase.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
I wanted to start on the defense side.
So if you correct for R&amp;D and the warranty claims on a year-on-year basis you had pretty nice margin expansion and you attributed it to mix but given it is pretty low volume here in the first quarter I imagine the volume is going to help you through the rest of the year.
Is mix actually going to start to hurt you through the rest of the year? Or is there more upside in government margins than usual? We always hope there's upside to the margins but I would say that the mix will probably be a slight negative over the course of the balance of the year.
Myles we also will see a little bit of increased spending on the year in expensed R&amp;D and government systems.
So that will offset a little bit of that as well.
All right and then on customer funded R&amp;D or the increase in R&amp;D is customer funded that's putting upward pressure on your sales I imagine.
Is it effectively pushing you to the top end of the range already? Or are there some offsets in the end markets that you are kind of -- We certainly hope that it presents revenue opportunity for us for the full year.
The one thing that's impacting us a little bit just on the topline more than the bottomline is currency.
We have always said that we don't have a significant exposure to currency but it has moved so significantly since we have set our plan that if rates stay where they are particularly the Euro exchange rate with the dollar we are looking at probably about $30 million impact for the full year.
That's the ones negative that we are watching but on balance I think it does indicate some level of opportunity.
Okay great.
I will stop there.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ron.
So Kelly just maybe a broad question for you.
How would you characterize what you guys are seeing in the business jet market now from your customers? And then I guess everybody is trying to understand if we are really seeing mids and lights pickup? Would you characterize it that way? How would you describe it? Well Ron remember for if to pick up for us means OEMs have to increase their rates of production.
We are clearly seeing early indicator signs with utilization rates and that things are picking up a little bit.
I would say nothing that changes our outlook at the low-end in terms of production rates.
As you know we forecasted that most of the market recovery will be through the new products that are being brought into the market and I think that's what we are seeing.
So the new demand is going to the new airplanes.
Nothing material yet.
If you look at the overall environment if the oil effect drives a little bit of GDP growth maybe we will see better than we have expected recovery there in the market but nothing meaningfully yet.
Okay that's great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Yes good morning gentlemen.
Kelly could you give us maybe just a clarification.
How does the wind down investment base kind of flow through on the A350? Is it done something where it's basically already completed? Or do we still have to finish some for the remaining part of this fiscal year? For all practical purposes we are through the major development.
We always have a little bit of work to do associated with entry into service and supporting the initial customer.
So it's not completely done but getting through the certification and entry into service really marks the milestone of the end of the major expenses.
And recall that a lot of that is in our deferred engineering spend.
And that's been a part of our plan all along to get that program into service and start bringing down our spending in deferred engineering.
Okay and Kelly if I could just ask a quick one on that.
Is there anyway to quantify what the spare parts demand in terms of the aftermarket would have been in commercial without the absence of the large delivery of spare parts tied to the GoldCare program? Yes probably mid-single-digit.
Mid-single-digit.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Kelly a question on the aftermarket.
You can talk about large jets and small jets in this context.
Do you think the oil price coming down and the increase in airline profit should help your sales of discretionary product? Yes.
In my opinion the one big positive and probably the earliest positive impact we would see associated with lower oil prices would be in the aftermarket.
Now you know that's going to be muted by the fact that most of the major airlines are hedged.
So the windfall will be over time.
I actually think it's more likely that we will see faster impact in business aviation because the fuel price isn't typically hedged there and it is in a common budget element the whole operating costs.
So we may see higher utilization because the flight departments have more money that they didn't spend on fuel and they could either fly more or afford some discretionary mods for the aircraft.
Now I will also say we haven't baked into any of that yet into our forecast I think the timing of that is yet to be seen a little bit.
But maybe towards the end of the year we should start seeing some.
If oil stays low we should start seeing some flow through of that spend.
Okay and as a quick follow-up on the after market.
I was wondering if you could tell us what the business jet after-market trends were like in the quarter.
The flight MRO trended pretty consistently.
We did have a little bit of lumpy timing in some of our mandate updates in business aviation.
But there is nothing in the market that -- we posted pretty low 2% aftermarket numbers which isn't a surprise.
We kind of signaled that.
There is nothing I see in the market that's going to keep us from achieving our forecast of high single digits in the overall aftermarket.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Your next question comes from line of David Strauss from UBS Securities.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Kelly on the growth rate commercial air transport OE you cited airline selectable market-share gains.
Can you give us a little bit more color there in terms of product and maybe platforms where you are really seeing share gains come through? Yes.
On the legacy aircraft most of our equipment is buyer furnished equipment or selectable at the airlines.
And so you have seen we have been doing quite well over the past several years in capturing that business.
And that just flowed through in that.
This quarter we had a really nice mix of customers that had selected our buyer furnished equipment.
From an aircraft perspective it was really more driven on the 777 and the A320 products this past quarter  Okay and as a follow-up could you talk about your progress on the KC-46 program? Obviously Boeing there's a lot of speculation out there in terms of how Boeing is doing but can you talk about from how you see things? Yes.
We are on-schedule on-plan supporting them.
The first flight included obviously our flight deck equipment.
It did not include the mission package equipment.
That gets put on after the green aircraft flight.
But everything is going really well.
And in fact we are ramping down our development on the program.
We will be ramping down throughout this fiscal year.
And then we will start to pick up when we get the follow-on order.
Right now we are on order for just the four FDD aircraft.
And so we have got the follow-on 18 airplanes to start building here next year.
Everything looks good David on that program.
Really proud of the team both in terms of meeting all the expectations but our financial performance in the development is doing quite well.
So we are doing a good job.
Great.
Thanks Kelly.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
Question if I look at the incremental margins in commercial air about 30% now it may have been a little higher Patrick.
I don't know how much of the $4 million increase in R&amp;D was commercial.
But I also wanted to ask was there a change in the incentive comp in the quarter where you have been running? Or was this kind of a normal quarter? I would say it's a normal quarter for incentive comp.
If you adjust for the R&amp;D I think the incremental is about 35% and we have signaled that there are going to be quarters where the incrementals aren't quite as high just because of the volume of customer funded R&amp;D.
And that's really what's driving the incremental margins down a little bit from where we normally are.
You have always commented in the past that you make up a similar margin in OE versus aftermarket.
I assume that hasn't changed.
Or is that a little bit more biased less for the OE? No.
But I think it really hasn't changed much.
What we have talked about in terms of lower margin stuff one is the customer funded R&amp;D that we have already talked about and the second is when we are introducing new products they tend to come at slightly lower margins.
But if you think about our legacy OEM business and our legacy aftermarket business both very high margin.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
You next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Thanks so much.
So you indicated that most of the $50 million increment in R&amp;D is basically customer-funded.
Can you give us some sense is most of that in commercial in air transport OE? What programs what areas and also what does that imply for deferred engineering and company-funded R&amp;D? Thanks.
Hi.
I think company funded has actually taken up a little bit to our deferred spend.
I don't think if it's going to change much at all.
And in terms of the composition of the increase in customer funded R&amp;D about equal parts government and commercial.
The commercial piece is really development programs on international platforms as we have talked about before.
And the government side it's a scattering of other programs.
Okay.
Well given you are up 22% in air transport OE in the quarter even all the explanations you gave a spectacular gain.
Does that mean that air transport OE this year would look like you could maybe be up 12% to 14% something like that even with deceleration later on? Is that a reasonable guess? That's not a bad guess.
No.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from line of Jason Gursky from Citi.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks.
Kelly I was wondering if you could just update us on your assumptions with regard to CSeries volumes both this year and the ramp going forward to start? I am sorry.
I didn't hear the question.
Was it CSeries you asked? Yes CSeries.
Just the assumptions that you have on volumes for this year and going forward.
Yes.
As you recall we de-risked the plan quite a bit with CSeries.
So I think we had about a half a point of commercial systems revenue associated with CSeries and we don't need any kind of a ramp to meet that revenue.
So I am pretty confident that we are going to meet the revenue plan for this year.
And then we haven't provided any guidance in terms of the ramp-up and I think we are still waiting to see from Bombardier in terms of the ramp-up in production in the out years.
Okay and then can you just provide an update as well on the business development efforts and where there are opportunities to garner some more content on various programs either on the military side or the commercial side? What are you guys actively working on these days? Well there is obviously some big programs in DOD that are in the competition phase and you can imagine we are probably involved in almost all of those programs particularly for airborne platforms.
Internationally we have got helicopter platforms additional opportunities in the marketplace next-generation JTRS is still of pursuit for us as we try to move from development and low rate initial production to the production competition for those.
In terms of the commercials BFE remains a big part of our portfolios.
So every day we are out competing for the buyer furnished equipment associated with any of the legacy aircraft buys.
And then we are out really focusing on optimizing our aftermarket positions with these new standard airplanes.
And that presents some big opportunities for us to work with the airlines for provisioning plans sparing plans and support plans going forward.
You know I don't see a lot of right now in the commercial space a lot of new clean sheet aircraft I think everybody is really focused on finishing what they have got on their table and getting those aircraft into service.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Patrick on the last conference call you talked about timing of taxes and talked about how the first half was going to be a much higher rate than the second half.
With the R&amp;D tax credit now approved does that still hold true for the second quarter? Yes.
What I think I signaled in the last conference call was about 33% rate for the first half of the year.
Obviously with the R&amp;D tax credit flowing in the first quarter that's not true anymore.
But as I look into the second quarter we get a partial benefit of the R&amp;D tax credit.
Think about the tax rate as being about 32.5% for the second quarter and then coming down from that in the back-half of the year.
Okay and then with an aftermarket growth of the 2% but you had said it was mid-single if we took out last year's big provisioning.
It still needs to accelerate a decent amount to get to a high single-digit for the year.
What's really going to be behind the pick up that we see in the remaining three quarters? Well you are going to see that pickup right away here in the second quarter.
And the real growth drivers are going to be around mandates.
This is as we said the peak year and we are seeing the order flow associated with the mandate pick up and then retrofits HUDS in China cabin and flight deck updates are the key drivers there for the retrofit in the second half.
Okay and then if I can ask one more on the 777X.
I know you said you are going to expense it.
Can you just talk about the timing or the profile? And I don't know if there's any way to size how much spending and over what period of time you are going to have to absorb? Yes.
What I would say is there is going to be a relatively modest spend this year and it will be accelerating over the next couple of years.
And I would say probably peak spending will be in 2017 and coming down from there Okay great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran from Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I just had a quick question here on pre-production engineering.
If I did the math correct it looks like pre-production engineering was down or maybe a bit I am sorry less negative by about $6 million year-over-year up or more negative by about $1 million quarter-over-quarter.
And I am looking at the numbers on the cash flow statement not what's on slide seven.
So if you could maybe can you talk about the trajectory what it's going to look like for the rest of the year? Is this going to be lumpy? Well maybe more linear? Have any of the drivers changed since last quarter? What I would say is Richard it is going to be pretty linear.
As I look at the profile and I am looking at it right now we may see a modest uptick in the second quarter in our deferred spend but think of it as being pretty linear across the rest of the year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert from Canaccord.
Your line is open.
Yes hi.
Good morning.
Kelly I just wanted to follow-up on your comments specifically regarding the mandate pick up.
To what extent are you seeing that for your 5-7 and 6-7 replacement packages that you recently announced in terms of the cockpit of the avionics? Yes.
So the mandate pick up that I was talking about was specifically related to the Link 2000 and the TCAS change.
So not driven by the flight deck up update.
We do have our second customers.
I commented that the last call.
So we are pretty firm.
That will also drive some growth in the second half as we deliver those updates to our unannounced customers for that.
Okay.
But just to follow-up you are getting a sense that on those particular planes the airlines are maybe with what's happened with the fuel environment a little more open to spending there on those upgrades? Maybe they are a little easier to process? Or how are you seeing that? Well I would say the fuel is not going to hurt.
It certainly is going to help.
But even before fuel was what it is today we were seeing strong interest from customers who are going to fly those aircraft for a lot longer to go ahead and do the mods.
I think we will have some additional customers in terms of orders by the end of our fiscal year.
It probably won't convert to any sales just because of the timing from order to sale there.
So I think for this year we are pretty firm in terms of what we need to do on those aircraft.
Yes fuel should be in that good news for that product line offering.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Ciarmoli from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Maybe staying on the after-market theme can you guys talk about will A350 sparing create some of a tailwind? And can you also talk about just some of the trends you are seeing at your Intertrade unit with surplus parts? Is that market becoming tighter given fuel prices? Maybe just some color there.
I don't think we have seen any meaningful change in our Intertrade used business as a result of fuel prices.
In general this fuel price I think the impact is going to come later.
I think the fact of the matter is everybody is still operating on the same budgets that they had when they started their year.
So you know I don't expect to see significant change here in the near-term associated with fuel prices.
The other part of your question it was the A350 spares and the magnitude what we are going to see this year.
I would describe it as being pretty modest and the reason is because there is really only one significant customer in 2015 and that's Qatar.
So we don't have quite the volume of mix that we had in the 787 rollout.
And so I think there will sparing activity at least this year.
Got it that's helpful and then just Kelly on the synergies with ARINC.
I know you guys called out $10 million a year climbing to $50 million.
Any update there? Have you guys identified additional synergies? Or do you think you can boost those numbers as we progress and the integration moves on? Yes.
We continue to track to our plan there.
I have discussed the synergies of combining our flight services business for international and domestic under our new product brand ARINCDirect and that's a combination of additional customers as well as cross-selling capabilities that each independent company had and we continue to track to our plan and gain new customers but also gain more volume with the existing customers.
So I feel really good about that tracking to our plan.
Some of our longer term synergies now we have got a well-defined.
We have got development activities underway for our product or service offerings.
Nothing we are ready to announce right now but those are coming.
And then more importantly our cost synergy performance is really good.
And as part of what's allowing us to achieve those 23% EBITDA margins for the quarter.
Got it.
Very good thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Howard Rubel from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thank you.
Kelly you talked a little bit earlier about the strength of the dollar.
And so how are your international and emerging market customers coping with this unexpected headwind relative to in many cases their natural currency? We really haven't seen any change to-date but we are pretty early in the process.
Most of our orders that we delivered in the quarter were placed last year.
So no we haven't really seen much impact at least to-date with respect to our international customer base.
No I am not sure about the timing.
I mean I think it's probably a watch item and in some cases obviously they have natural hedges.
It just struck me that it's such a sharp move.
Also related to that is the sanctions in Russia seem to have had some impact on some companies.
How are you managing to continue to support your business jet customers in that market? No change and we are not overly exposed in Russia.
So I don't anticipate any impact there.
Thank you both gentlemen.
Okay.
Your next question comes from line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
As a follow-up can you provide at all what your content per plane is going to be on the 350 and the 777X versus the 777 currently? Well you know George we do not disclose our shipset content on any of the aircraft.
I will repeat what we have said in the market.
We said that the A350 will be about $2.5 billions.
The 777X will be about $2 billion the 787 and the 737 MAX are similar in size combine them there will $7billion to $8 billion of total revenue.
So that gives you kind of magnitude of the programs going forward.
Now recognize the quantities of the business cases across all those are different.
Okay let me ask one follow-up then one Kelly.
If you could describe I don't know much about the SITA business that you compete with with ARINC.
But if I just look at some of the data that you can get it seems like they are seeing much slower growth rates like maybe 3% 4% where you are saying you are seeing like 10%.
So maybe you could describe a little what it is that you are doing that's different than what they are doing that's giving you the higher growth rates? Well if you look at their portfolio and our portfolios they don't really there are no one-for-one overlap.
They are our biggest competitor in our ARINC business but they have got other support businesses that we don't have.
And I don't think they disclose their revenues at least I am not aware of it in a way that you can do a one-to-one comparison.
I would suspect they are seeing higher growth in the comparable business that they do because we are seeing it driven by the market.
It's not as significant.
What we are seeing is not significant market share gains beyond the synergy areas.
Most of it is market uplift.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss from UBS Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
So as a follow-up any update on the ASES potential to sell that business? Well we are still working it.
We had a buyer last quarter.
That deal fell through.
But we are currently working with another potential buyer.
So hopefully within the next couple of quarters we will get the thing sold.
Okay.
Kelly the NTSB yesterday came out with a whole bunch of recommendations around getting basically flight information faster.
Could you talk about how that could potentially help your ARINC business? I know they are only recommendations at this point but it seems to be that we are moving in that direction.
Yes.
Most of the more frequent updates would go likely over the ACARS network which will drive revenue.
I said this in the past that all the capability exists to report the position of the aircraft.
They aren't doing it at the frequency that they could.
I don't think it's going to drive a material impact to our overall business.
It's not going to take a lot of data to provide more frequent updates to aircraft position.
Okay.
And Patrick was there any change in the forecast for ARINC on the intangible amortization side? No.
No it's staying steady.
Okay thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Ryan Miller for any closing remarks.
Thank you.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today.
So please review that document for additional disclosures.
Thank you for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Melissa.
And good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we'll be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward-looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide two of this webcast presentation and from time-to-time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Well as you saw in our earnings release this morning we delivered another great quarter highlighted by 7% organic revenue growth 13% earnings per share growth and a 69% improvement in our operating cash flow.
I think these results really underscore a strong performance in the first half of fiscal 2015 and are really a testament to our roughly 20 000 dedicated employees who are every day focusing on providing trusted innovative solutions to our customers.
And over the past few months I've visited with many of our employees around the world and discussed the direction our company is headed and I have to tell you there's a groundswell of energy and excitement across our company driven by our strong positions our opportunities for global growth and expectations for our overall upward trajectory.
I've also talked to a number of investors who are beginning to share that same level of excitement about our company outlook.
Last year our top priority was to return the company to growth after we had been significantly impacted by the DoD and business jet cycles.
And while last year was the inflection point as we did return the company to top line growth I'm expecting that fiscal 2015 will undoubtedly be recognized as the year we regained our stride as we deliver accelerating levels of earnings and cash flow.
During the quarter we achieved a number of milestones supporting our long-term growth objectives and let me highlight just a few here today.
In March we announced the acquisition of Pacific Avionics which helps build out our overall cabin entertainment and information management portfolios.
Pacific Avionics enables the wireless distribution of digital information onboard an aircraft and it's just one example of how we're expanding our cabin offerings to include a powerful portfolio of onboard applications and connectivity solutions that will help our airline customers engage entertain and empower their passengers.
In addition as part of our overall connectivity strategy we recently signed a memorandum of understanding to develop and provide the SATCOM terminals for OneWeb's global aviation high-speed broadband service.
We'll also be a value-added reseller of OneWeb's service adding to our already robust portfolio of airborne and ground-based connectivity offerings.
Well needless to say we're excited about the future of our partnership with OneWeb and how it strategically positions us in this evolving broadband connectivity market.
but combined with our offerings with Inmarsat's GX Aviation we're really positioning ourselves to grow in this previously unaddressed broadband cabin connectivity market.
In January we formally launched our commercial flight simulation joint venture called ACCEL with Beijing's Bluesky Aviation Technology company.
And with the launch we'll now be offering 737 and A320 simulators.
This JV is targeted at the growing Chinese simulation market and I think is a great example of how we're using our partnerships to continue to grow our business in this emerging China aerospace market.
Our Information Management Services team continues to make great progress in integrating ARINC.
As I've mentioned in the past I've been encouraged with how the culture of ARINC is meshing with that of Rockwell Collins.
And this continues to be the case as we're working together to realize the revenue synergies we all expected from this new business.
And if you recall our early revenue synergies are focused largely on leveraging our sales channels between the two companies and integrating our two business aviation flight services businesses.
And together these businesses are on track to deliver the first $10 million of revenue synergies this year.
But we're also making progress on new offerings that support longer term revenue synergies within our IMS portfolio.
For example in February we launched our live credit card authorization capability with Hong Kong Airlines and this new capability enables airlines to leverage a connected airplane to validate credit card transactions while in the air avoiding the significant financial losses that they're incurring today.
And in March we launched the ARINC MultiLink flight tracking service which brings together multiple data sources to reliably report the location of an aircraft anywhere in the world.
And we're now moving to a trial period with several launch customers.
These are just first of many more applications and services we plan to provide to aircraft operators aimed at making their business and operations more efficient.
And within Government Systems we unveiled our new approach to military communications with the launch last month of our TrueNet network communications solution.
U.S.
armed forces and militaries around the world have long sought an interoperable scalable and networked communication system that allows warfighters to talk to each other no matter whether they're located on the ground or in the air.
And this is exactly what TrueNet provides and we believe we're well positioned to deliver a solution that enables joint services and coalition forces to communicate seamlessly together.
Now before I turn the call over to Patrick to walk through the financials let me give you our latest view of our end markets.
We continue to believe the U.S.
defense budget is bottoming out and should at least return to inflationary levels of growth even in a sequester environment.
As we've all seen over the course of the past year the world isn't getting any safer.
And depending on how these budget deliberations in Washington end up we may have even some upside to our sequester-driven outlook.
All this supports our Government Systems business forecast to return to growth in the coming year.
Within the bizjet market our outlook really hasn't changed.
We are seeing signs that indicate a recovery is underway and we expect it's going to take a while before we see significant increases in OEM backlogs.
And as a result we're not forecasting that there is going to be any snapback in demand but growth will largely be slow and primarily focused on new aircraft models entering service.
And we're well positioned with the number of new aircraft equipped with our latest products.
And then finally our air transport market continues to remain strong with good OEM growth driven by rate increases and ramp-up of the A350.
And in addition our capture rates for our buyer-furnished equipment are in line with our long-term plans and so as a result I expect our air transport business to continue to be a growth engine over our five-year planning period.
So in summary this was another strong quarter for us demonstrating that our teams are executing our plan to accelerate growth and increase our shareowner value.
And just as important I like the way we're doing it.
In March we were recognized by Ethisphere Institute as one of 2015's most ethical companies.
This award recognizes organizations that continue to raise the bar in ethical leadership and corporate behavior and it was the sixth consecutive year we've been recognized for this award.
And we're only one of three aerospace and defense companies to be honored this year.
In addition Forbes Magazine recently ranked our company among America's 500 best employers for 2015.
More specifically we were ranked 96 overall and we're rated as the number one employer in U.S.
aerospace and defense industry.
And I think these recognitions demonstrate the integrity and dedication of our people of our management team and are really yet another reason that I'm confident about the future of Rockwell Collins.
So with that as a backdrop let me turn it over to Patrick to walk you through the financial details for the quarter.
Thanks Kelly.
And good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize the results for the second quarter of 2015.
I'll begin on slide three where we highlight our total company second quarter sales earnings per share income from continuing operations and shares outstanding.
Total company sales for the quarter increased $82 million or 7% compared to the second quarter of 2014.
Income from continuing operations improved $15 million or 10% over the prior year.
Earnings per share increased $0.14 or 13% compared to the second quarter as well.
Income from continuing operations improved primarily due to the higher sales and earnings per share grew in excess of income due to the favorable effect of our share repurchase program.
As we turn to slide four Commercial Systems achieved revenue of $619 million in the quarter up 11% from the second quarter of 2014.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $53 million or 17% to $370 million primarily due to improved share of airline selectable equipment higher customer-funded development program sales and higher OEM production rates.
Aftermarket sales increased $13 million or 6% to $234 million due to higher service and support sales increased sales of used aircraft parts through our Intertrade business and regulatory airspace mandates.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased 12% to $142 million in the second quarter of 2015 with operating margins expanding 10 basis points from 22.8% to 22.9%.
The increase in operating earnings was due primarily to higher sales.
Now the incremental margin was 24% year-over-year and this was tempered by sales growth in lower margin customer-funded development programs as well as higher amortization of program investments.
Moving on to slide five Government Systems revenue increased by 2% to $567 million in the second quarter this coming despite a year-over-year currency headwind of $12 million or 2% of sales.
Looking at our product categories sales of avionics increased $28 million or 8% from higher deliveries for rotary wing aircraft higher KC-10 retrofit sales and higher Joint Strike Fighter simulation and training sales.
Now these increases were partially offset by lower KC-46 development program sales.
Turning to communications.
Their product sales declined $9 million or 8% primarily due to lower deliveries of JTRS Manpack radios partially offset by higher data link development program sales.
Surface solutions sales decreased $8 million or 14% due to lower development sales for the common range integrated instrumentation systems program and navigation product sales were about flat.
Government Systems second quarter operating earnings increased $3 million to $114 million resulting in an operating margin of 20.1% compared to 20% in the second quarter of last year.
The increase in operating earnings were due to the higher sales partially offset by higher company-funded R&amp;D.
Turning to slide six.
This is the first time we have a full quarter of Information Management Services or IMS operations to compare back to since we acquired ARINC in December of 2013.
During the second quarter IMS achieved revenue of $155 million up 4% from $149 million in the second quarter of 2014.
The aviation connectivity related sales increased 10% over the prior year due to continued growth in GLOBALink and ARINCDirect.
And as I've mentioned in the past the non-aviation sales can be a bit lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
Whereas we saw a good growth in the first quarter this year for the non-aviation related sales in the second quarter we were negatively impacted by the exit of certain government programs.
IMS second quarter operating earnings increased $4 million to $22 million resulting in operating margin of 14.2% compared to 12.1% in the second quarter of last year.
The increased operating earnings were due to higher sales and the absence of certain licensing costs incurred in the prior year.
Looking next to slide seven we show our year-to-date results for revenue income from continuing operations earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Through the second quarter we generated $132 million of operating cash flow compared to $78 million last year.
The improved cash generation resulted from higher earnings and lower tax payments partially offset by other working capital changes.
Slide eight provides an update of our R&amp;D investment through the second quarter of the year.
During the first six months of the year total spend increased 8% to $489 million.
Company-funded R&amp;D increased $9 million due primarily to positioning our Government Systems business for new opportunities.
Customer-funded R&amp;D increased $51 million due to higher international development programs in Commercial Systems higher data link development programs in Government Systems and higher amortization of pre-production engineering costs.
Pre-production engineering investment decreased due primarily to lower spending on the A350 program.
And looking to the full year we still expect to spend approximately $1 billion in total R&amp;D.
Moving to slide nine we show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the second quarter compared to the end of last year.
At the end of the second quarter we had a debt to EBITDA of about 2.
Now we expect that to come down over the balance of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow is typically generated later in the year and as we pay down a portion of that short term debt.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of the second quarter is detailed on slide 10.
During the second quarter we repurchased 725 000 shares at an average cost of $86.23.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was $468 million.
In addition just yesterday we announced a 10% increase in our dividend reflecting our ongoing commitment to return value to our shareowners and further demonstrating the confidence we have in our ability to generate strong earnings and cash flow.
Now on to slide 11 where we provide the details of our fiscal year 2015 financial guidance which remains unchanged from the guidance we provided last quarter.
Sales are expected to be in the range of $5.2 billion to $5.3 billion.
And we currently expect our sales to be at the higher end of that range driven primarily by higher customer-funded development sales in Commercial Systems.
As a result and as we've communicated previously I would expect that incremental margins will be moderated as we do not realize the same level of profitability on development sales as we do on hardware sales.
Total segment operating margins continue to be in the range of 20.5% to 21.5%.
Earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $5.10 to $5.30.
Our outlook for operating cash flow remains in the range of $700 million to $800 million.
And as I've mentioned earlier total R&amp;D investment is estimated to be about $1 billion and capital expenditures are estimated to be about $200 million.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
In order to give everyone the opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit your questions to one per caller.
If you have further questions simply re-enter yourself into the queue and we'll answer those additional questions as time permits.
Operator we are now ready to open the line.
Your first question comes from the line of Ken Herbert with Canaccord Genuity.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Very nice quarter.
Hi Ken.
Thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just wanted to ask specifically you've talked about on the BFE side some business you're winning and how that's helping with some of the share gains and the growth specifically within on the commercial transport side on the OE side.
Can you provide any more details on that in terms of how much of the growth that provided and are you maybe getting better pricing there or by specific aircraft type and how you maybe see that playing out over this year and into 2016? Because I can imagine you're fairly early in this process in terms of some of these share gains on the BFE side? Yeah.
If you look at the results here this quarter that BFE really played through and it's primarily on the legacy narrow-bodies 737 and A320 aircraft.
It can tend to fluctuate.
We had a really good mix quarter this year so the airplanes that were delivered by both Boeing and Airbus happened to be heavy content to Rockwell Collins' base customers.
That can tend to ebb and flow a little bit depending on who the airplanes are going to but we've sustained a pretty high level of capture rate in our buyer furnished equipment which is our economic engine in air transport today for those legacy aircraft.
I'm not going to give the details of what our capture ratios are but they're good.
They're meeting our expectations that will allow us to meet both our near-term and long-term growth objectives.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Well thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Stallard with Royal Bank Canada.
Your line is open.
Thanks very much.
Kelly I was wondering if you could maybe give us an update on what you're seeing in the business jet aftermarket both in terms of maybe discretionary and non-discretionary sales? Yeah.
If you look year-to-date and particularly this quarter we were a little weaker than we anticipated in the aftermarket in our business and regional business.
A little bit of that is driven by the sanctions that we're seeing in Russia but probably the area that maybe surprised us a little bit was the softness in take-off and landings or utilization in North America.
Our assessment is that was pretty much driven by the weather dynamics that we had in the East Coast in the first quarter and we're expecting that to recover.
That's going to be something that we'll want to watch.
In terms of discretionary mods real good cabin demand which has driven both the first half and will continue to be a growth driver for us in the second half.
And I'd say avionics mods are a little bit more sporadic although we do have a couple of new solutions that we're entering into the market for some FANS navigation upgrades in the second half that'll drive second half growth.
We still have some work to do to get to our overall high-single-digit growth in the second half of the year.
And if I had to say right now I'd say air transport is a little better than what I anticipated and biz av is a little softer than what I anticipated.
But I think you mix them together I still feel like we'll able to get to that guided growth.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky with Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning and thank you.
I'm just wondering if you might just walk us through each of your business segments with regard to the opportunities that you see over the next three years? Where might you pick up some incremental wins kind of what are you excited about as you look out at the new business opportunities over the next three years in each of your segments? Well Jason so we've got quite a few things to be excited about over the next three years.
Certainly in air transport it's the continued cadence of new aircraft wins new standard position.
So A350 will be ramping up.
We've got the 737 MAX and then beyond the three-year period we've got the 777X.
We're excited about that.
So OEM provides us some real good growth in air transport.
But the aftermarket also provides some opportunities for us as we're seeing demand for large display retrofits in our 757/767 retrofit package.
We're also seeing demand particularly in China for a head-up display retrofit.
So I'm pretty excited about the opportunities there.
In our government portfolio obviously the opportunity rests in the budget negotiations here.
As you know when we did our five-year outlook we kind of said hey sequester is here to stay.
If I had to handicap it now I think we're going to at least see some OCO budget increase above the sequester level which will probably provide us some flow through opportunity just budget opportunity.
And that will go into the priority areas that the DoD is funding things like avionics communication upgrades for us going forward.
And then the international market continues to present opportunities for us both in retrofits of C-130s worldwide rotary wing new share gain opportunities at AgustaWestland and Airbus Helicopter both present opportunities.
On the bizjet side we're not calling for – as I said in my script we're not calling for a snapback.
We've got new product entries.
There will be some new announcements coming up hopefully at NBAA this year that will indicate some of our market share moves there.
And if we see a better recovery which I think history would say we're probably on the pessimistic side of the economic recovery in business aviation.
If we see a little bit better recovery then obviously that will manifest itself in better demand for core aircraft which will be good for us.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great thank you.
Your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Sam.
Patrick I wanted to go back to a comment you made on the incremental margins.
If I just look at the incremental margins this quarter is there any way to kind of back out the customer-funded impact and say what were the incremental margins excluding that? And I guess is that more customer-funded in business and regional or in large commercial transport? The way I'd look at it is there's about $17 million of incremental customer funded sales year-over-year and think about that as carrying virtually no margin.
So back that out and you're at about 30% I think.
And then with the incremental amortization of the preproduction engineering that adds another few points to it.
I would say that the incremental customer funding is probably a stronger mix on the business and regional side than on the air transport side.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Ronald Epstein with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi.
This is actually Kristine Liwag calling in for Ron.
My question is more with aftermarket.
How should we think about margin progression in Commercial Systems through the year as aftermarket picks up? I'm sorry what was the question? How should we think about margin progression in Commercial Systems through the year as aftermarket picks up? What I would say and as I indicated I think we're going to still see some pretty soft incremental margins on the Commercial side kind of similar to what we've seen in this quarter largely due to the higher customer-funded R&amp;D that we're experiencing which is actually I think a really good story and a good testament to Commercial Systems and their ability to get that R&amp;D.
Remember in our overall portfolio the aftermarket is a little bit more profitable than OEM but not a lot more.
We make money both on the OEM and the aftermarket.
So the mix shift while we will be growing the aftermarket I don't think the mix shift is going to have a significant impact on the overall profitability of our Commercial portfolio.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes on Cai von Rumohr with Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you very much and good quarter.
So IMS the incremental margins look good year-over-year a little more modest sequentially.
Can you talk about the aviation versus non-aviation mix this quarter versus the first quarter and where you kind of see this going in the second half? Thank you.
As you look at the incrementals certainly in this quarter we saw about a 10% year-over-year increase in the aviation related sales.
And that did carry very good incremental margins about 50% offset by some other things.
But and then we saw a slight decline in the other what I'll call non-aviation related product sales of about $4 million which netted out to the 4% growth.
In the first quarter I think we still saw pretty good margin performance and incremental sales year-over-year in the aviation related but we also saw pretty good incrementals mostly from a sales perspective on the project related and I think we're about 20% year-over-year.
I'm really talking about second quarter versus first quarter because – so that we can kind of think going forward about where the mix might be aviation versus non-aviation? I think what you're going to see is pretty consistent quarter-over-quarter sequential growth in the aviation related what I'll call the networks business which is about two-thirds of the revenue and as I've indicated in the past most of the profitability.
There may be some variation from quarter-to-quarter but I think that's going to be pretty steady growth.
Where you're going to see the lumpiness and we've already seen it in the first two quarters is in this projects related business the airports and rail and security again about a third of the business.
And we saw good growth in the first quarter actually slight reduction in the second quarter.
It's going to be lumpy over the course of the coming quarters.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Peter Arment with Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good morning Kelly and Patrick.
Question on the I guess related to IMS your new kind of services that you're rolling out quite a few one the credit card authorization some of the other tracking.
I mean is there going to be a continual step up in investment spending or CapEx required for a lot of these new services whether it's upgrading ground stations or is this all kind of built into the plan? Maybe just give us a little expectation of the spending profile? Thank you.
Well this is all built into the plan.
These are the types of things you should expect to hear a regular cadence from us that are going to create this $10 million of revenue growing to $50 million of revenue synergy over the plan.
I will also say these aren't heavy investment activities to go implement.
This is pretty simple to write a simple application use generally off the shelf kind of equipment and just provide a system solution or a service solution to our customers.
And those ideas have a CapEx plan laid in to fund those things.
So you're not going to see any incremental from our current plan to achieve these growth objectives.
And if you think about the IMS investment profile they're pretty light on R&amp;D and a little bit heavier than the rest of the Rockwell Collins business on CapEx.
So think of probably – whereas Rockwell Collins the legacy business is about the 3% to 4% of sales IMS is probably closer to 6% or 7% of sales on CapEx on a run rate basis.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Richard Safran with Buckingham Research.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Richard.
Inc.</span></strong> You were recently at the Hamburg Interiors Expo and I believe you showcased your IMS cabin products there.
So I just wanted to know if you could give some commentary on the feedback you got from customers? Can you tell us what kind of reception you got? Were there any significant takeaways from the show? Well yeah.
First of all the guys came back very excited from the show.
We were very very busy at our booth with the announcement of Pacific Avionics and our new in-seat video IFE system for single-aisle aircraft.
The combination of those two capabilities is pretty exciting to the customer market.
One of the things we are seeing and it drove really the strategy around Pacific Avionics is we are seeing a move particularly for the cabin retrofit market to look at a wireless distribution.
And this isn't just Wi-Fi connectivity this is wirelessly distributing the content that's sitting on a head-end server in an airplane rather than putting in wired IFE systems.
And so we wanted to accelerate that offering Pacific Avionics brings us that.
So now we've got a nice balance of in-seat wired as well as wireless.
So we're also seeing lot of customers looking for kind of a combination.
In certain class seating they may want the in-seat wired solution and then in the economy class more of a bring-your-own-device wireless application.
So we think we've got a nice product portfolio offering now with this acquisition and we saw a lot of interest.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks for that.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yes.
Good morning.
One clarification and one question.
Patrick partially the exit of certain government programs you mentioned in IMS are those programs you're consciously getting out of or are those programs that just came to an end if you could describe it a little more? The way I'd describe it it was really kind of a one-time integration program for Lancaster County Pennsylvania.
That was the principal government program that I was referring to.
I would say that that's business we're likely not to repeat going forward.
Okay.
And then just one quick one for you Kelly.
The business and regional OE was up 14% which is a pretty good increase.
I assume it's mostly business.
Can you talk about what platforms were driving that? Let's see.
We saw good demand for the globals out of Bombardier.
We also have quite a bit of non-recurring engineering in that segment.
So it wasn't all aircraft delivery demand but NRE demand like for example the Mitsubishi Regional Jet in Japan is a funded non-recurring development program.
I think we also saw – back to the aircraft I think we also saw some growth in the Challengers at Bombardier as well.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Kelly looking at air transport OE obviously you've had very strong growth through the first half of the year.
If I look at your forecast for the full year I think it's low-double digit growth.
It would seem to imply that you flatten out here sequentially.
Is that the right way to think about it? I mean typically you continue to grow as we go throughout the rest of the year.
Yeah I think this is probably going to be a little bit atypical.
I'm expecting the growth rate to decelerate a bit in the second half.
First of all as I mentioned before we had really good mix this quarter in the buyer-furnished equipment mix.
The unfortunate part of that is that usually comes around to another quarter where that gets corrected because aircraft that aren't ours start to enter into service.
So yeah I think you'll see that growth rate mute a bit.
We also benefited here in the first half of the year from some rate increases last year relative to the narrow-bodies and that provided us a little bit of lift in the first half of the year that won't comparably drive demand for us in the second half.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Rob.
Hey just a couple of small things.
Patrick on the comment you made about the sales at the higher end of the guidance range not really having the margins so I would interpret that as that's not what drives the high end of the EPS range.
So wanted to ask you what are the couple of swing factors that would get us to the higher end of that range? What drives the range essentially so that's question one? I would say probably one thing that would drive it would be sales in excess of the high end of the range and specifically product sales.
And also kind of better cost performance on programs those would be the two things that would lead you toward the top end of the range in EPS.
Okay.
And then just Kelly couple of quick ones for you the narrow-body BFE that you're seeing come through now does any of that translate to standard equipment on the MAX or the NEO? Let's see no I think all of that stays selectable on the MAX and NEO that we're currently seeing.
I can't think of any standard equipment.
777 is a different story but I think that all stays the same.
Okay.
How is 777 different may as well talk about it? The big component of the buyer-furnished equipment is surveillance equipment.
So that's our radar it's our TCAS it's our transponder and our Terrain Awareness.
Those are all being converted to a standard integrated surveillance solution on the 777.
So all that BFE will go away as BFE will be standard on that airplane.
And that's a common solution as to what we have on the 787 as well.
Okay.
And then just a quick one on Intertrade recognizing that it's a small business.
But I'm wondering if you're seeing any inflated pricing in what some are describing as a pretty frothy surplus parts market and overall asset market for aircraft just given low fuel prices? I would say nothing new.
In that segment the game is all around being able to access the right equipment at the right price.
Certainly the equipment that's selling hot we have to look at that and particularly in some of the hot engine areas availability of parts at a price that allows us to make a business deal is one of the constraining growth items for us.
So we just continue to mind that but no I wouldn't say there's anything new there in frothiness.
But would you agree that there's a lot of traffic in this market that might not have been there a couple years ago? Yeah.
I think more people are what I would say just like us recognizing that with this part-out phenomenon that we're seeing that there's opportunities there.
So yeah I'd say that we're seeing more players but I don't think it's changing.
We're continuing to be successful in the specific areas we're focusing.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Myles Walton with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
Hi Miles.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey Patrick it looked like sales in Government were good and that was in spite of a three point headwind from currency.
What's the headwind you're baking in for the rest of the year from FX where you sit today? As we look at it year-over-year the headwind from a sales perspective is about little bit over $40 million.
And I'd say the vast majority of that is in our Government Systems business.
Now that said we're still forecasting Government Systems to be flat despite that headwind.
Inc.</span></strong> And the pickup in company-funded R&amp;D maybe Kelly can you allude to some of the bigger projects that you're working on? Are these competition go-forwards that you're spending the money for or are they kind of known (41:07) programs you have that you have to spend the money on? If you can comment on that? Yeah.
The customer-funded pickup is around our data links and I think Pat described that in his remarks.
Our company-funded is around this TruNet radio solution which provides both ground and airborne capability primarily focused at the international market.
And remember we've said as we start to come out of this cycle in Government Systems we are going to spend a little bit more in R&amp;D to position our products for international markets or commercial type procurements and that's exactly what we're doing.
Inc.</span></strong> And then just one other one on the A320 single aisle incremental development any update on potential display offering from the A320 next evolution? No no update for you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Howard Rubel with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Thank you very much.
I want to kind of follow up on what Myles talked about in terms of some of your Government opportunity.
You do have typically pretty decent visibility and sort of two parts to that.
One is it sounds like you're gaining share in data links and Kelly could you elaborate a little bit on that and what particular applications and why is this happening? And then second based on sort of what we see in terms of things like either a tanker or other opportunities like JSF that you should start to be seeing some growth in the military business irrespective of the budget.
Can you elaborate on that please? Let me start with the second question first.
The growth in these new programs whether it be KC-46 the F-35 program are driven by the cycles of those programs.
In fact we are seeing good growth now on the helmet and avionics that we're providing in the F-35 that will continue.
We're actually going through a period of a dip between development and production on KC-46 which is a headwind for us.
Our revenues are down on KC-46.
They will ramp back up as we start low rate initial production and production of those aircraft.
So they tend to kind of follow the program cycle as opposed to the overall budget dynamics there.
Let's see the first part of your question was around data links? Gaining share.
We are gaining share in the data link area.
Programs that are important there are the MIDS the MIDS to JTRS conversion.
We're implementing some new waveform capability.
We've got a new data link capability called TTNT which is a broadband data link.
You've probably seen this recent announcement by Northrop Grumman of the air-to-air refueling of the unmanned platform.
That was done utilizing our TTNT advanced networking technology.
So we see really good growth opportunities there in our data link business.
I'll also say that our core communications businesses if you set aside the JTRS Manpack phenomenon is doing quite well.
And you know we – as we went into the cycle our short cycle business was impacted more dramatically more quickly but as we're stabilizing here we are seeing our short cycle business actually coming back.
So things like data links our navigation equipment communications equipment are all showing early signs of recovery which is good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Pete Skibitski with Drexel Hamilton.
Your line is open.
Morning guys.
Nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hey Kelly just to follow up was wondering if you could update us maybe on the timing of awards and sizing to you on some of the DoD radio competitions the Manpack maybe SANR and I'm not sure if you're going after Rifleman Radio or anything else? Well we're not in the Rifleman competition.
We're more in the Manpack program.
That's the big Army communication program out there for us.
The draft RFP is out industry is commenting on that.
They're planning to go to procurement competition late this fiscal year.
Awards will be probably next year but you're not going to see any meaningful revenue now till probably 2017 when we start ramping up.
Their intent is to select multiple suppliers for that but it will be a full and open competition.
So that's probably a big one to watch going forward.
And then SANR is that farther out? SANR I'm not sure what the heck the Army is going to do on SANR yet whether it's going to be funded whether they're going to delay that whether they're going to continue to just buy some of the existing solutions that they have.
So I'm not sure yet on SANR whether that's going to be an opportunity for us or not.
Does that matter to you if they keep buying the old stuff that I know you have a lot of content on? I'd prefer to see a new SANR opening competition that would give us more opportunity.
But I think in the main it's not a material driver for the – it's not a JTRS kind of a program.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Your next question comes from Michael Ciarmoli with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question nice quarter.
Kelly just on the aftermarket I know you guys I think originally guided or provided your aftermarket guidance in the September 2014 timeframe.
The total aftermarket growth this quarter between commercial transport and business jet looked to be the highest since 3Q 2013.
Are you seeing any behavioral changes from your customers given low fuel prices? Just trying to get some color if you are seeing carriers think about keeping planes in service that would mandate more avionics retrofits or com retrofits that could be additive to the outlook over maybe this year into next year? No unfortunately we're not seeing any of that yet.
And I've not forecasted that we're going to see that until we get into another budgeting cycle.
It's something I talk to the guys repeatedly about but I can't track any major shift in strategic direction that gives us a retrofit opportunity that we can track to a fuel.
It obviously isn't hurting but I don't think the money is moving from the fuel budget to the retrofits and mods budget yet.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's fair.
That's the only one I had.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
How're you doing? I did want to come back in.
Kelly can you talk a little bit about the dividend growth only in that you haven't raised it in a couple of years and now you are doing it? Have you changed that in terms of your priorities with regards to...
No no.
...capital return? I mean if you look at our dividend ratio it was just time for us to update that.
So there's no change in strategy this just reflects the increase of income that the growth is providing from the company and we're adjusting our dividend accordingly.
So you should expect that as we continue to grow the bottom line of the company.
Okay.
And then just in terms of the back of the cabin kind of opportunity with Pacific Avionics when you look out a couple of years how big of a business do you think that area of the business can be? Well that particular acquisition we're looking at providing about a point of revenue next fiscal year to our Commercial portfolio.
I think more importantly is that it provides us this broad offering and will certainly allow us to continue to be successful in the in-seat and wireless video application in the single-aisle market.
So it's a point of growth next year which is good not overly material though.
But it stays in the single aisle? You wouldn't look to expand that as there are opportunities into the wide-body side again? Well you know we don't provide wired in-seat twin aisle solutions right now.
And so our focus is in complementing our single-aisle product line.
Whether this would be applicable to a twin-aisle might be something we'll look at in the future.
Okay thank you.
Yeah.
Your next question comes from Carter Copeland with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Hi Carter.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Kelly just to expand on that a little bit and Pacific I mean obviously a point of Commercial Systems is not a big deal but it's a technology you wanted.
You've obviously talked a little bit more about expanding out that IMS portfolio through M&amp;A and I just wondered if you might give us a little color about what you're seeing out there in general terms in terms of opportunities? Is there stuff out there that you see on the near-term horizon and just kind of give us an update on what you're thinking on that front? Yeah.
So this is a part of – while this product line is going to sit in our Commercial Systems business unit this a part of our overall strategy to provide information offerings.
So you can envision in the future where we're providing not just the in-seat video equipment but also the on-board wireless distribution as well as the connectivity service.
And we've been expanding in our market reach there to provide the cabin connectivity service.
So we can see in the future where we're providing a much broader fuller suite of offerings to our customers going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> And in terms of just general number of properties out there how's that effort going for you? I would say there's properties out there.
We're continuing to work.
They're typically like a Pacific Avionics which means they're privately owned.
They take nurturing to make the deal happen.
I've said publicly that I wish we're a little faster at moving these.
Jeff MacLauchlan's come into the company and that's one of his focus areas is to try to accelerate our ability to convert on these.
But I think there's opportunities for us to continue to build out the portfolio and we'll keep prosecuting those.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks and great quarter Kelly.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Ronald Epstein with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning again.
Thanks for the follow-up.
Kelly just wanted to – I'm intrigued by the Pacific acquisition.
I mean is it reasonable to think about it as a platform for you to continue to build on within that space? I think this is maybe following on to Sam's question that can you – you know what I mean? I mean is this is a platform you can build on organically? Can you build on through M&amp;A to get a broader offering within the plane in terms of your wireless and in-seat entertainment business? I think you should view this as a typical bolt-on enhancing our total product offering in this new connected airplane environment.
So today we've got the IMS organization that allows us to provide the services.
We had the on-board equipment for in-flight entertainment.
We did not have a product offering for this wireless distribution that's where Pacific Avionics comes in.
There are other areas we'll continue to look to build out this portfolio to provide all the value added offerings associated with the connected airplane going forward.
So I wouldn't look at this as a platform.
I would look at this more as building on the platform that we've already got and part of our overall information management strategy.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro with Shapiro Research.
Your line is open.
Yeah just a couple of quick ones.
Patrick the incentive comp in the quarter similar to last year's second quarter? I think it was pretty close maybe a little bit higher.
Okay.
And then you had talked earlier about potentially getting the tax rate down in the second half of the year I mean where are you in that status? We're still planning on having a lower tax rate in the second half of the year.
I would tell you I think the bulk of the tax planning is going to be in the fourth quarter.
So you'll probably see a rate in the 30% range for the third quarter and then coming down in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thanks very much again.
Your last question comes from the line of David Strauss with UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Kelly could you talk about where you are on the A350 ramp at this point? What rate you're delivering at and when is the next step-up expected to be on that? We're at really low rate as they're going through the ramp-up right now I think we have 30 ship-sets in our year.
So we're pretty one to two kind of month rate right now.
Pretty muted ramp-up as they deliver those aircraft in a much lower pace than what we saw with 787.
Now we are aligned to Airbus in this overall A350 ramp-up.
So we're not in the situation where we saw with 787 where we were misaligned and it took us a year to get back aligned.
We're pretty well directly aligned right out of the chute with Airbus.
Okay.
Patrick were there any sale proceeds from ASES? There was a few yeah.
We sold it the sale price was $5 million.
There was $3 million of cash and we took a $2 million note.
So not exactly robust sales proceeds.
But we did get a little bit.
Okay.
And Kelly last one you talked about good demand in the quarter for global but how are you thinking about large cabin? Do you have any concerns about large cabin from here given currency and just a fair amount of weakness in some of the higher growth markets that have been taking a lot of these airplanes? Yeah I think we're looking for more stable performance out of the large cabin as opposed to growth.
I think actually our global demand was probably more to do with the alignment of when we were shipping equipment as opposed to market demand for the aircraft.
So we're watching that very closely.
Obviously the Russia sanctions as an example is an area that is of concern for the large cabin.
So we track that just like you do with the OEMs but we're calling for relatively stable global production.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the call back over to Ryan Miller for any closing remarks.
Thank you Melissa.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please review that document for additional disclosures.
And thank you for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shannon and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast and you can view the slides we'll be presenting today on the website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Well it's quite obvious that all eyes are on the commercial aftermarket.
And unfortunately as you've seen in our press release we too have some soft aftermarket results for the quarter which I'm going to detail in a moment.
But before I do that I think it's important to put this in this context.
With three quarters down we are narrowing our range of results all consistent with or better than previous guidance ranges.
Our execution performance has been excellent in all quarters for this fiscal year.
And I was especially pleased with our operating margin performance this quarter in spite of the aftermarket softness.
We were able to flow solid incremental margins in both Commercial Systems and Information Management Services.
And our focus on improved cash conversion is paying off as we improved our cash flow from operating activities by 29% for the first nine months of the year over the same period last year.
So with that as context what I'd like to do is walk through each of our businesses and give you my assessment of the market conditions and how we're doing.
And let me start off with our Commercial Systems business.
Our OEM revenues continue to be strong in the quarter growing 10%.
And year-to-date we're exceeding our expectations on Commercial Systems OEM sales where we've had better than expected buyer-furnished equipment mix in air transport as a result of high airline capture rates.
In our business and regional OEM we've been successful in obtaining customer funding which has generated increased customer-funded development sales on many international programs.
In this quarter we announced that Cessna has selected our new Fusion EDS product line for their King Air fleet.
This product line is ideally suited to allow us to compete and win in the light segment of the market a big strategic move for us.
On the flip side the commercial aftermarket has not lived up to our expectations this year and we're seeing a couple dynamics play out here.
First in business and regional systems business jet flight hours are just not growing.
We came into the year expecting that flight activity would continue to recover at last year's rate and unfortunately it just hasn't.
This past quarter the activity was relatively flat.
Interesting we are seeing relatively reasonable flight activity grow in the newer jets but really weak utilization in the older models.
In addition the discretionary side of our BRS aftermarket continues to be soft and underperform our expectations.
One bright spot has been cabin updates but the flight deck updates are just still not picking up.
As we enter the year we thought discretionary spending in the business jet aftermarket was ready to rebound and it was showing some signs of early recovery.
I also thought that lower oil prices would help accelerate the recovery in the second half.
And as it's turned out we just aren't seeing anything tangible in the marketplace that would indicate that the bizjet aftermarket is ready to make a run.
Also for the third quarter our air transport aftermarket business was down about 4% due primarily to lower entry into service spares for the 787.
Now this surprised us a little bit but we do know why it's happening and it's not all bad news here.
We knew going into the quarter that there weren't a lot of new airlines taking 787 aircraft but we did expect some additional spare sales that didn't materialize.
The reason they didn't is that airlines are now recognizing that they don't need as many spares as first estimated supporting their aircraft.
And why is that well it's because our products are performing very well in service and are exceeding even our reliability expectations.
So when you combine the higher actual reliability of the products with the fact that most of the airlines have already provisions for spares using a lower predicted reliability we realized a fairly meaningful reduction in 787 spares during the quarter.
Now aside from 787 we also had a few timing issues with Intertrade used parts sales that slipped from the third to the fourth quarter.
Now if you look at our underlying MRO and exclude the impact of the items I just talked about our air transport aftermarket's MRO sales were actually up mid single digit year-on-year which is more in line with the market fundamentals.
So based on our aftermarket performance to-date there's no doubt we'll fall short of our high single digit guidance we set beginning of the year.
I'd now expect our aftermarket sales for the year to grow more in the low single digit range when all is said and done.
So let me back up and look at our Commercial Systems revenues.
We're better than expectations in OEM worse in aftermarket and about on overall.
And we've done a really good job of managing the mix shift as the OEM customer-funded development sales come at relatively very low margins.
I should add we're also expecting the impact of the Bombardier rate reduction on the Globals to primarily impact us next year and not be a significant impact to our fourth quarter.
Now on to Government Systems where things have been much more stable.
The only real shift has been the impact to foreign currency.
As we've talked about in the past this is our business that has the most exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and we've sized that as about $40 million of headwind for the year.
The good news is that we're expecting to offset this headwind and still achieve our revenue guidance of about flat for fiscal year 2015.
This has been accomplished through modest improvements in our legacy hardware sales and a significant increase in development program sales primarily in the data link area and modernized GPS programs.
Our Government Systems operating performance has been very strong and I still expect full-year margins of about 21% while accommodating higher spending in both R&amp;D and B&amp;P as the market recovers.
So our government business continues to execute our strategy to return to growth and I'll add that bookings for the year are on track to our plan.
Now let me turn to Information Management Services.
In the third quarter we had solid growth of about 8% in aviation-related services which again represents about two-thirds of our IMS sales.
During the quarter we did have some modest headwinds in the non-aviation part of the business primarily related to the wind-down of a government public safety program we've talked about in the past.
Overall we remain on track with our revenue synergy plans and the integration of ARINC has gone very well.
If you remember early on the revenue synergies were going to come primarily from the business jet service consolidation as we leveraged our strengths of Rockwell Collins' legacy international flight support services group with ARINC Direct.
This is going really well and in fact is even offsetting some of the bizjet utilization headwinds I discussed earlier.
To give you a sense of that year-to-date we're seeing a 10% reduction in the number of international trips being flown yet our revenues in this area are up 8%.
The reduced flights are primarily in and out of China Russia and the Middle East due to the dynamics in those regions.
And again we're executing our IMS business very well and we surpassed 15% operating margins for the quarter as we continue to see good leverage on the aviation services growth.
So if you bring this all back together for the enterprise the quarter was headlined by 12% EPS growth a strong operating margin and cash flow performance and our development teams continue to perform at a high level as we progress on a number of new aircraft loaded with Rockwell Collins equipment that will enter service over the next five years.
And we continue to make progress in positioning for growth over the long term and with that growth our plans have delivered double digit earnings and cash flow.
So with that let me turn it over to Pat and have him walk through the details of the financials for the quarter.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the third quarter of 2015.
I'll begin on slide 3 where we highlight our total company third quarter sales earnings per share income from continuing operations and shares outstanding.
Total company sales for the quarter increased $29 million or 2% compared to third quarter 2014 sales.
Income from continuing operations improved $15 million or 9% over the prior year.
Now the income from continuing operations improved primarily due to the higher sales and a benefit from favorable adjustments related to the remeasurement of certain prior-year tax positions.
Now as a reminder in our last earning's call I said that we expected the fourth quarter rate to be lower than the third quarter rate due to some tax planning items we were working.
As you can see from the current quarter we were able to finalize those items a little earlier than we expected and most of the benefit we had anticipated for the fourth quarter has now been recognized in the third quarter.
We were also able to recognize the benefit on the more favorable into the range and as a result I now expect the effective tax rate to be about 28% during the fiscal year previously guided in the range of 28% to 29%.
Earnings per share increased $0.14 or 12% compared to the third quarter of 2014 and earnings per share grew in excess of income from continuing operations due to the ongoing favorable effect of our share repurchase program.
As we turn to slide 4 Commercial Systems achieved revenue of $611 million for the quarter up 5% from the third quarter of 2014.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs increased $35 million or 10% to $373 million primarily due to higher customer-funded development program sales and an improved share of airline selectable equipment higher deliveries in support of the A350 and Legacy 500 entries into service and higher hardware sales for Chinese regional aircraft.
Aftermarket sales decreased $3 million or 1% to $225 million due to lower spares provisioning for the Boeing 787 program partially offset by higher regulatory mandate sales.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased 8% to $141 million in the third quarter of 2015 with the operating margins expanding 80 basis points from 22.3% to 23.1%.
The increase in operating earnings and operating margin was due to the higher sales and a favorable contract adjustment.
Moving on to slide 5 Government Systems revenue decreased by 1% to $530 million in the third quarter and included a year-over-year currency headwind of $12 million or 2% of sales.
Looking at our product categories sales of avionics increased $11 million or 3% from higher hardware deliveries for rotary wing aircraft and higher KC-10 retrofit sales partially offset by lower simulation and training sales.
Communication product sales were flat as higher data link development program sales were offset by lower deliveries of JTRS Manpack radios.
Surface solutions sales decreased $25 million or 37% due to lower deliveries of FireStorm targeting systems and lower development sales for the Common Range Integrated Instrumentation System program.
Finally Navigation product sales increased $9 million or 21% due to the development effort on modernized GPS products.
Government Systems third quarter operating earnings decreased $4 million to $108 million resulting in an operating margin of 20.4% compared to 20.9% in the third quarter last year.
The lower operating earnings were due to lower sales higher investment in company-funded research and development and bid and proposal costs.
Turning to slide 6 IMS achieved revenue of $152 million up 4% from $146 million in the third quarter of 2014.
The aviation connectivity related sales increased 8% over the prior year due to continued growth in GLOBALink and ARINCDirect.
As I've mentioned in the past the non-aviation sales can be lumpy from quarter to quarter and we were negatively impacted in the quarter by the end of a government program.
IMS operating earnings increased 10% to $23 million in the third quarter of 2015 with operating margins expanding 70 basis points from 14.4% to 15.1%.
The increased operating earnings were due to higher sales volume and the absence of certain licensing costs incurred in the prior year partially offset by higher business development costs.
Now turning next to slide 7 we show our year-to-date results for revenue income from continuing operations earnings per share and operating cash flow.
Through the third quarter we generated $341 million of operating cash flow compared to $265 million last year.
The improved cash generation resulted primarily from higher earnings and lower tax payments.
Slide 8 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment through the third quarter of the year.
During the first nine months of the year total spend increased 7% to $731 million.
Company-funded R&amp;D increased $7 million due primarily to positioning our Government Systems business for new growth opportunities.
Customer-funded R&amp;D increased $74 million due to higher international development programs in Commercial Systems higher data link development programs in Government Systems and higher amortization of pre-production engineering costs.
Pre-production engineering investment net decreased due primarily to lower spending on the A350 program and higher amortization expense.
Looking to the full year we still expect to spend approximately $1 billion in total R&amp;D.
Moving to slide 9 we show the status of our capital structure as of the end of the third quarter compared to the end of the last year.
At the end of the third quarter we had debt-to-EBITDA of approximately 1.9.
I expect it to come down over the remainder of the year as a larger portion of our cash flow is typically generated in the fourth quarter and as we pay down a portion of that short-term debt.
The updated status of the share repurchase program as of the end of third quarter is detailed on slide 10.
During the quarter we repurchased about 920 000 shares at an average cost of $96.06.
Our repurchase authority remaining at the end of the quarter was $380 million.
Now on to slide 11 where I provide the details of our fiscal year 2015 financial guidance which has been updated from the guidance we provided last quarter to reflect the narrowing of the previously guided ranges.
Sales are expected to be in the range of $5.25 billion to $5.3 billion.
Total segment operating margins are expected to be about 21%.
Earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $5.15 to $5.25.
Our outlook for operating cash flow is in the range of $725 million to $775 million and total R&amp;D investment and capital expenditures are unchanged at about $1 billion and $200 million respectively.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections.
So Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
In order to give everyone the opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit your questions to one per caller.
If you have further questions simply reinsert yourself into the queue and we will answer those additional questions as time permits.
Operator we are now ready to open the lines.
Your first question comes from the line of Robert Stallard from RBC.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Rob.
Kelly on this whole provisioning issue how much visibility do you have on this maybe just looking very short term into Q4? And then maybe how is this going to pan out next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well let me give you a little bit more color on that because as I said in the prepared remarks it's not all bad news.
Our equipment is performing really well particularly our displays on the aircraft and that's good for Rockwell Collins good for our brand.
I can't wait to use that data to help go sell those displays on retrofit to 767 757 retrofit programs.
So net-net I think that's going to be good.
And remember that all this equipment is under warranty and the better it performs the better our warranty performance is going to be.
What we're doing right now is resetting at the actual reliability versus the predicted reliability and we kind of incorporated that in the full year expectations that I outlined.
So I think we've got pretty good visibility.
In fact most of the orders we missed or sales we missed for the year we actually got a sale from several of the customers.
It just was for much fewer items than what they were originally planning and what we anticipated.
So to me this is something we'll reset.
We're going through our annual plan right now for fiscal 2016 and I think we'll be able to size this pretty well.
It's all based on factual data and the fact is we know what's going on so we'll be able to predict it going forward.
There's no question it will lower the demand appropriately for the higher reliability sparing equipment.
So a company like say Boeing on a GoldCare program they've provisioned.
They bought a lot of spares from us.
They're going to be able to support more aircraft with the number of spares than we originally had anticipated.
Right.
Okay.
Thanks Kelly.
Your next question comes from the line of Carter Copeland of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning gentlemen.
Happy Friday.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Carter.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Kelly just want to kind of ask a question about sort of trend lines here.
As we exit the year obviously a couple things finishing out this fiscal year a bit different than the plan on the OE front on the discretionary aftermarket front.
I know you don't guide until September but when you think about the impact on those things for next year are any of those OE sales a pull-forward? Do you think any of that discretionary aftermarket absence moves into next year? And when you look at the non-aviation portion of IMS is there anything particularly tough or easy about the compares there given the lumpiness in that business? Any color there would be really helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you're right in that we're not giving out 2016 guidance here today.
We're working our plan as I said right now in that.
I think air transport is pretty solid.
The things we're having to analyze is looking in the aftermarket results in particularly in the business and regional they're not as we expected.
I mentioned in the prepared remarks that the relatively newer airplanes are being flown.
The older airplanes in fact had some declining utilization this past quarter.
That's not good news because those are the airplanes that are targeted for the mods and updates.
So we're factoring that into the market going forward.
Obviously we have the Global headwind going into next year.
And Patrick in previous forums has outlined the impact of the Globals the C Series and the Lear 85 on our commercial growth.
And recognize that we're not going to see year-on-year non-recurring engineering sales growth at the rate we saw this year.
So next year the OEM growth rate is clearly going to be challenged in our business and regional market.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Sam.
Good morning.
I actually wanted to follow up on that last comment.
And I know you have highlighted the 300 or 400 basis point impact from the Bombardier products and you lumped them all together.
I guess I'm wondering if you had assumed a slower rollout of the Global 7000 8000 when you were talking about Globals and if that entry into service is delayed is that a further headwind or is there not much in terms of ship sets next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No Sam.
The 7000 8000 really had no impact on next year.
So the timing of that is still something that we have to look at but should have no impact on us for next year.
Clearly the rates on the 5000 6000 do.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Pat just one thing can you size that favorable contract adjustment in the Commercial Systems? It was about $5 million.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Arment from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
Good morning Kelly.
In fact can you maybe give us a little more color on – IMS continues to put up nice growth 8% in the aviation-related area.
How are you doing on kind of the initial revenue synergy targets that you laid out? And it seems like you continue to see good adoption there on the connected aircraft theme.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we are.
The revenue synergies are planned out real well and I'm very pleased with that.
And that's why I made the comment that we're actually offsetting some weakness in utilization or flight activity in some of these regions of instability.
So we brought those two businesses together.
With fewer flights what that means is that we're getting more revenue per flight or we're gaining additional customers and a little of both of that is happening.
So we're pretty well on track with our plan for $10 million of top-line synergies in this fiscal year.
And I feel real comfortable about the continued cadence of synergies going forward.
We got a lot of activity going on in that market space.
In connectivity we're working with Inmarsat and their new Global Xpress with OneWeb with Iridium NEXT.
We've just released our new flight tracking activity and we're in the trial period of that not in a revenue-generating period.
That'll turn to a revenue-generating activity next year.
We've got the infrastructure build-out underway where we're putting additional radio coverage in some of the areas where we've had weak coverage in the past.
So we're laying the framework for that growth going forward and I feel pretty good about it.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Kelly I wanted to turn back to Government Systems for a minute and talk about the implied fourth quarter margin for you to keep on track toward the guidance you gave earlier and how we should think about that business and when we might see more of a north-bound inflection.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well what we've said was that we would get to flat this year.
And as I said in my remarks that looks like a good plan and we're going to achieve that.
And then we'll start low single digit revenue growth next year.
So I think we're all on track on that.
Our bookings are coming in as we expect.
Pat in terms of the do you want to answer the margins? Yeah I'll talk to the margin.
Rob the margin for the fourth quarter is going to be obviously north of what we've done to-date about 22.5% to get us back to our guided margins.
And that's not inconsistent with where we've been historically.
Typically our fourth quarter tends to be our highest margin quarter because it also tends to be one of the highest volume quarters of the year as well.
So I'm not concerned too much about that margin.
And thanks Patrick.
Kelly just a final question on what you said when does surface solutions eventually bottom? Because it seems like that would be key.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the surface solutions is really that portfolio is really being impacted by this CRIIS program.
It's a range instrumentation program that we're going through the wind-down of that.
We're pretty close to bottoming out on the development program.
We're getting close to the end.
So that will then move to a production phase not a real large production phase but we will start to see then some growth coming back out of the CRIIS program.
So I would expect that our two portfolios that are relatively shorter cycle businesses our surface and navigation portfolios you're going to start to see those turn.
And in fact you are starting to see the navigation portfolio turn which was one of the leading decliners when we entered into this segment.
And actually we had good growth this past quarter in navigation.
Yeah.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
So just maybe a big picture question for you.
How are you thinking now looking forward at the M&amp;A environment and how you're going to deploy capital? And does the Sikorsky acquisition potential acquisition by Lockheed change the M&amp;A environment in the defense world? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't think so.
First of all I don't think it's going to change our business.
Sikorsky has been a very important customer to us so is Lockheed.
And that combination hopefully will provide additional business opportunities for us going forward.
So I don't see that as a big shift.
In terms of our M&amp;A focus it hasn't changed.
I would like to continue to find areas in both our commercial and government business where we can build out this information management portfolio.
You saw that with our Pacific Avionics a small deal.
But more of those kind of bolt-on acquisitions that can help us build out our portfolio and take advantage of this market growth.
I mean are there other areas that you perceive you might have holes in the portfolio? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well there's areas across our portfolio where I wouldn't call it holes but there's opportunities for us to grow by building out.
Electronic warfare is an example where we're relatively a niche player and if there were opportunities in that segment to build out and leverage our strength and our channels then those could be good opportunities for us going forward.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jason Gursky of Citi Investment Research.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Jason.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey Kelly I just wanted to go back to your comment about the quality of your product and the fact that it's performing a little bit better than perhaps what you and your customers expected which as you suggest is a great thing perhaps for everybody.
But I'm wondering if it doesn't change the business model a little bit and how you guys are thinking about the long-term opportunity in the aftermarket and whether you need to reassess how you price your product up front.
Maybe you just talk a little bit about the annuity stream that you expected over the long tail of sustaining these aircraft.
Are things moving around a little bit on us and do we need as an industry to see a reassessment of pricing up front? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Jason what I'd say is we do that all the time.
The reliability and the performance of our products continually iterate as technology moves and we crank that into our business cases and determine how much is the aftermarket how much is the OEM what's the relative return in both of those segments and price the market accordingly.
So yeah this will be an adjustment going forward for us in terms of how we do that.
But I would say it's not a dramatic shift.
We just happened to particularly in this displays area I think you got to recognize we kind of skipped a generation.
We didn't do the 777 displays.
We didn't do the 737NG displays.
So as we're putting these new systems in we're finding that they're performing.
The new technology is really performing well.
And we'll just iterate that into our business cases.
I don't see that a major shift.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Noah.
It sounds like the 300 to 400 basis point impact to fiscal 2016 commercial growth that you've cited is specifically Global Express Learjet and C Series.
Is that correct or does it capture something else? And then if that's correct what's the change in the net of everything else as you see it today versus how you originally saw it when you first started talking about fiscal 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first of all that is correct.
I don't think we've ever put out fiscal 2016 guidance.
So I'm not going to answer that second question because there's nothing to compare it against.
I think if you look Noah to our long-term outlook that we provided about 18 months ago things have changed a little bit and you could ask yourself well what's changed.
In air transport we've won the 777X program.
There are higher rates in 737 and A320.
Rates have come down a little bit on A330 and 747-8.
But net-net I'd say that's good news for long-term outlook for us in air transport.
In BRS we've seen the Lear 85 pause the C Series delay and the downtick in rates on the Globals and that's what we've kind of given you an indication of the impact of that.
We've also seen the MRJ delayed and yet to see the entry into service timing on the Global 7000 and the 8000.
So there's no question that the BRS market has seen some shift to the right from that.
And our IMS is still clicking along just about as we anticipated going forward.
I guess where I was going was if I – it's recognizing you hadn't given a 2016 number specifically.
You had the high single digit thought process for the next several years.
If I started high single digits for next year took the 3% to 4% off for what's happened at Bombardier I'm kind of 4% to 5% maybe 6%.
And then if there's been a little bit more incrementally negative than positive in the rest of the business between what's going on in the business jet world just tougher comps we're seeing kind of across the space on the large commercial side I'm just wondering if we should all be honing in on sub 5% for the commercial business next year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're working our plans right now Noah and we'll put that out in September.
I think that was a good question but I'm not going to put out a number right now because we're still working on our annual plan.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning.
I just wanted to follow up on that question with Patrick with the 300 to 400 basis point impact on commercial next year from Bombardier that would imply to me that your Bombardier sales are maybe $350 million to $400 million.
Could you validate that? And also would that make Bombardier your biggest business jet customer? Well without giving specifics in terms of the amount of sales George I can confirm with you that Bombardier is definitely our largest bizjet customer.
And I think we've said in the past Bombardier in any given year is between 5% and 10% of our sales.
Okay yeah.
That's sort of compute to.
And then just one quick follow up.
Patrick when you lowered the aftermarket to low single digit from high single digit is that all just related to 787 provisioning or is there other stuff that you're seeing? Yeah George there's a certain like a two-step production in the aftermarket.
Probably a couple of months ago now we talked at a conference and cited bizjet aftermarket weakness being part of the reduction.
And then now with the provisioning that's the second piece.
So really what we're seeing is a weakness in both elements of our aftermarket bizjet and air transport for very different reasons.
But those are the two components that get it down to the low single digits.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Myles Walton of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering maybe you can clarify the amount of your air transport aftermarket that's provisioning versus kind of straight up non-provisioning MRO and spares.
And then Patrick as it relates to the balance sheet you talked about some deleveraging into the end of the year given the cash generation.
This time last year I wouldn't have expected you to be quite as patient in paying off the short-term debt.
Should we expect that patience in paying off the short-term debt to persist through 2016 such that you could you still buy back similar amount of stock? Well I don't want to talk specifically about our buyback plans.
But I think you're going to see us – we took a more measured approach towards the debt pay down this year.
I think we'll exercise a similar level of discipline going forward.
And when you want to talk about the sparing specifically and think about the air transport aftermarket it's roughly about half of the discretionary piece of the air transport aftermarket.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay and then.
Just to be clear that includes both initial provisioning as well legacy spares because we continue to sell spares as we deliver 737s and A320s and the like.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And is the contract adjustment that you took in commercial related to the better performance you're seeing on the 787 specifically or is it another contract or customer? It was actually it was a positive impact related to a development contract that we're working on.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Not to beat a dead horse but this 3% to 4% that you've talked about on the impact from Bombardier is Kelly is that a firmed up number or is that kind of your best guess at this point? Do you actually know how far Bombardier is going down on Global on kind of what they're thinking for C Series next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's our best guess.
Okay.
So you're still – go ahead sorry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think we've got a pretty good indication on the Globals.
The C Series I think is our estimation and we're going to have to see how that program progresses.
Okay.
And as a follow-up how much does MAX help you next year? Do you actually see any revenue next year from MAX or is it really 2017? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's really 2017.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Safran from Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open..
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Richard.
Inc.</span></strong> I missed a little portion of this call so if this was asked I apologize.
I wanted to ask you about defense and your latest outlook on the budget.
The prevailing view seems to be that we're going to be getting a CR at the end of the year fiscal year maybe resolution by end of calendar year.
Wanted to know if you're sharing that view.
You guys were one of the early proponents that defense had bottomed.
Just want to know if you're still maintaining an optimistic outlook for higher spending.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I am.
And remember our outlook included basic sequestration level.
And while I think the base budget is going to stay at that level obviously the OCO funding is going to be higher.
And I too believe we'll get a CR that'll get resolved by the end of the first quarter.
That seems to be – they ought to just make that the standard process because that seems to be what we get every year so.
But that's the way I think it's going to play out as well at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just quickly on FireStorm.
And you noted lower deliveries for the targeting system this quarter.
You had thought I think that this was going to be a growth area for you.
Was fiscal third quarter just a bump in the road? Do you still see this as a solid growth program and are you still confident in some upgrade opportunities here? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we are.
But it does tend to go program by program.
So we had – last year we had some real good deliveries that we're not repeating in this quarter.
You'll tend to see that be a causal up and down as those programs play out.
But in the broad picture we do see additional FireStorm sales opportunities.
We're working primarily in Europe and the Middle East and then we've got some upgrades of our installed base that we're expecting over the next couple years as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks so much.
So Kelly could we get an update on some of the government programs specifically with the budgetary problems in Brazil? Are you seeing any slowdown on the KC-30? What about the KC-46? Boeing just took that write-off.
And then on the opportunity side where are we with JTRS? Maybe tell us a little bit about the impact of the big MIDS contract you won and any potential you might have on LRSB.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well let me start with the KC-390 down in Brazil.
Obviously with the economic situation that's something we're watching very closely.
So far everything is progressing.
I talk with Embraer regularly about them continuing to be funded and it's a high priority program in spite of some of the overall budget challenges.
So so far so good on the priority there.
On KC-46 the Boeing charge from my understanding was around some refueling system issues nothing to do with any of our equipment.
And so I see no impact to that.
And remember we're starting to wind down our development work and then we'll move to the low-rate initial production.
I think the watch area for us is can they still get to the 18 aircraft plan that they've got in place.
And they think so.
And so that'll drive revenues as we move to low-rate initial production.
We have seen some movement on JTRS on the Manpack program the HMS program.
It looks like the RFP is going to drop in August of this year which is good because as you know that's been delayed and delayed and delayed.
And what that'll mean is probably source selection next year and then revenues coming the following year for HMS radios.
And the plan in that procurement area is to continue with at least two sources going forward.
So that'll be a important area.
The MIDS program that was an IDIQ-type contract large contract in terms of total value.
But that was in our plan Cai.
That's not anything new.
That's – think of that as our annual buys of MIDS terminals.
And those are data link programs that have been very successful and continue to be successful going forward.
As far as LRSB I really can't comment on that program.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Seifman from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Seth.
Just wanted to ask another question about the aftermarket and definitely appreciate all the detail about what's happened this year.
When you step back and put it in context though it's been a little bit of a struggle to meet the aftermarket guidance in 2013 2014 and now 2015.
And your long-term plan calls for high single digit growth which kind of – in excess of traffic or capacity growth.
How should we be thinking about your ability to grow the aftermarket in relation to traffic growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the air transport is going to continue to track to the traffic growth.
And it's going to be lumpy around the provisioning.
We're moving away from the initial provisioning phase to more of a run rate on 787.
When MAX kicks in we'll have a big initial provisioning associated with that because there's new display systems that everybody will have to provision for.
777 is the same.
So I think air transport's pretty solid.
I think the discretionary side of the bizjet market is where we've really struggled being able to predict the mods and updates to your point in the past three years.
And I think that's because we've been expecting a little bit better overall market recovery and we're just not seeing that.
So I think that's something we're going to have to take a real hard look at with the 2016 outlook.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Herbert from Canaccord.
Your line is now open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Ken.
Inc.</span></strong> Kelly you called out Intertrade as some sales shifting from the third to the fourth quarter.
Are those material? And then in the bigger picture do you see that as an opportunity to perhaps offset some of the other structural maybe changes or weakness you're seeing in the aftermarket moving forward? Is that an area you expect to maybe deploy more capital into to maybe drive a little bit more growth? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we have been doing that.
If you recall about a year and a half maybe two years ago we started to see this recycling of components.
And our Intertrade business has been growing and we've been doing that.
We've been buying aircraft tearing them down selling the parts and are growing associated with that phenomena.
I think that's going to continue.
So yeah our Intertrade business is going to be a continued growth component for us.
Now it's not as big as the overall aftermarket.
So declines in the overall aftermarket associated with recycling are not going to be completely made up by Intertrade.
As far as the quarter it wasn't overly material.
It just kind of piled on to the 787.
And it was just a timing issue.
We thought we were going to sell some engine parts this quarter.
The customer wants them next quarter.
So that's just a timing issue for us.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Just if I could as a follow up.
So is it fair to think of Intertrade as maybe a double digit growth business for you or can you put some numbers around that? It has been a double-digit growth business for the last couple of years yeah.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Ciarmoli from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Kelly or Patrick just on the A350 we hear that maybe the supply chain's still getting in sync.
Can you guys give us an update where you are on that program what your expected shipping levels might be? And even as you look into the planning for next year given what you've learned on the 87 provisioning does maybe a slowdown there become kind of a headwind against maybe what you guys were initially planning? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well the provisioning part probably not.
As I mentioned the main area where we're seeing the good news is in the display systems and we aren't doing the display systems on the A350.
We've never been out of align with Airbus relative to the A350 ramp.
We're expecting about 30 ship sets and we're aligned in shipping to that and we're aligned with their ramp-up forecast next year.
By the way we're not discounting that either.
We think that's a reasonable conservative ramp.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
That's all I had.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning again.
I wanted to go back on the initial provisioning which is that my understanding was about half of the sales are power-by-the-hour type of contracts.
And so if that's the case in the higher reliability at what point would you be able to start looking at those types of contracts at a better margin than where you would have assumed at the beginning? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We'll have to get a little bit further into the warranty period for both the taking a look at the warranty provision and taking a look at those contracts.
We're still relatively early in this.
Yeah I would say Sam that the profitability in the power-by-the-hour contract well we won't really see improvement until we get out of the warranty period because they're generally priced in two tranches kind of an in-warranty phase and out-of-warranty phase.
So to Kelly's point I think in early in the contract we'll see some benefit from lower warranty costs but the real profitability impact will be out-of-the-warranty period.
But is it running better than the reliability you generally used for those contracts? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah it is.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah for example we're going to be able to support more aircraft with the number of spares we have built and planned as well.
So there will be opportunities associated with this.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to know in terms of looking at the increase we've seen both in receivables inventory and I guess the decrease in payables is any of that some of the aftermarket flow-through? Is there any reason why we saw all those grow or be negative this quarter? I think it's actually pretty typical.
We generally have a buildup in Qs two and three and then a fairly substantial burn-off in Q4.
And we still anticipate that.
I wouldn't associate much if any of the growth to the issues we've got in the aftermarket.
There may be a little bit of extra inventory we're carrying that we thought we were going to sell but it's not a significant component.
Thank you.
Your next follow-up question comes from the line of Noah Poponak from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
I wanted to ask a little bit more about mandates.
In the discretionary business you had aftermarket being a little weaker than anticipated.
It sounds like some in the private jet broker or owner/operator community are saying that there are a handful of larger new mandates coming towards the end of the decade and folks see that coming down the pipe and therefore are holding back on discretionary for now.
Do you see that or hear that and how long would that last if that were going on? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we are seeing a little of that Noah particularly around the data link mandate for business aviation.
We're not seeing that in the air transport but in business aviation.
And I think that's this phenomenon of the older airplanes that need to be updated.
I think there's going to be pent-up demand for getting those mandates done but that's probably more towards the end of our planning period as you look forward.
Okay.
So I guess should we be therefore concerned that that can be a depressor to the discretionary business jet aftermarket for a few years until those finally show up? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know.
I wouldn't call it a depressor no.
I'd just say that we're not going to see the growth as much growth out of the mandates going forward.
Okay.
And then on the mandates you cited as helping you now in the aftermarket can you just walk us through what those are and how long those last? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
There's two major mandates.
One is a TCAS change collision avoidance change and another one is a data link change.
And both of those are mandates out of Europe.
We also have some ADS-B updates as well as well I'm going to call it a mandate but it's probably a soft mandate in China.
It's more of a targeted mandate on HUD utilization.
And that's driving both HUD retrofits as well as strong selection of head-up displays which are optional on 737s going forward.
So the HUDs are going to continue to be an opportunity for us over the planning period.
The mandates this year is really good growth of mandates.
We're expecting next year to be good and those particular mandates then will start to wane.
They'll get fitted out and so our revenues will start to decline in that area.
Okay.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Just one other quick question Patrick.
Just on the outlook for this year it's revenue went to the high end of the prior range margin stays right in the middle segment EBIT margin right in the middle.
But then EPS also stayed in the middle despite revenue having been at the high end and the tax rate help.
I would have thought that would have all equated to earnings also going to the high end.
What do I make of that? Is there a missing piece in there? Well I think it's attributed – a fair amount of it's a rounding.
I mean we're still in the midpoint of the margin range.
But when you think about what we've done in terms of substituting a lot of high margin aftermarket revenue for lower margin development revenues it's probably on the other side of the 21%.
And I'd also say that our tax rate as we planned that wasn't exactly in the middle of the 28% to 29%.
So I'd say a lot of moving parts but suffice it to say it's still in that range.
I see.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of David Strauss from UBS.
Your line is open.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Patrick the comp accrual for the year has there been a change in the plan there? No.
We're basically right on guidance and so no change.
Okay.
And then on the balance sheet the I think it was like $30 million increase in the accrual for customer incentives.
What exactly is that? It's a variety of different customers and a lot of it's timing.
But we've had several large airline customers get customer incentives and we haven't seen as many liquidations over the course of this last quarter as we had prior quarters.
Okay.
And Kelly the Legacy 450 500 how is that program going? And I think the 450 is set to come in here pretty soon.
Does that help you a fair amount next year? I know it won't offset the Global but is it a plus? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
And everything is going fine at least from our vantage point on the flight test program and certification.
So I expect that to come in to the market and be a growth item for us next year.
Great.
Thank you.
Hey operator I think we have time for one more question.
Your last question comes from the line of Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks for letting me sneak one in here before the bell.
Patrick just a couple.
I noticed since you changed the accounting the impacts aren't that big.
But on pension with one quarter to go obviously the discount rates have moved a good bit here.
Should we be thinking there's any pension impact a materiality for next year? Maybe just give us an update on that.
And then secondly I'm not sure if you mentioned it but specifically where does the FX headwind come from in terms of specific products or currencies? Any color on that helpful as well.
Sure.
On the pension side last forecast I saw – obviously we haven't done our valuation yet – the last forecast I saw showed very little change in our pension expense.
And Carter you identified why and that's because we're amortizing it over such a longer period of time.
As for as related to FX we talked about being $40 million the vast majority of that being Government Systems and I would say that it's almost entirely due to the euro/dollar exchange rate and coming out of our European subsidiaries.
And although it's spread across all the portfolios the one where it's most concentrated is actually in the avionics portfolio.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And Kelly just one last one.
The Manpack RFP you mentioned I thought there was a draft RFP already out there so if there's an update coming next month I wondered if do you expect any material change in that request versus what was in the draft or is this just normal sort of procedure? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah normal sort of procedure.
I think we went through a couple drafts.
Clearly they're honing in and so I'm not expecting a heck of a lot of change for this.
I think they've got the requirements now honed in and the program is ready to move forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
I'd like to turn the call back over to Ryan Miller for any closing remarks.
Thank you Shannon.
We plan to file our Form 10-Q later today so please review that document for additional disclosures.
Thank you for joining us and participating on today's conference call.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the Rockwell Collins Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For opening remarks and management introductions I would like to turn the call over to Rockwell Collins' Vice President of Investor Relations Ryan Miller.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Shawn and good morning to all of you on the call.
With me on the line this morning are Rockwell Collins' Chief Executive Officer and President Kelly Ortberg; and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Patrick Allen.
Today's call is being webcast.
And you can view the slides we'll be presenting today on our website at www.rockwellcollins.com under the Investor Relations tab.
These slides include certain non-GAAP financial information and a reconciliation to the related GAAP measure.
Please note today's presentation and webcast will include certain projections and statements that are forward looking.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties including those detailed on Slide 2 of this webcast presentation and from time-to-time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
These forward-looking statements are made as of today and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Kelly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thanks Ryan and good morning everyone.
Let me start by saying that I'm very pleased with our overall performance for fiscal year 2015 which is highlighted by mid-single digit sales growth and double digit growth in earnings and cash flow which is right in line with our long-term goals.
And our ability to deliver 13% operating cash flow growth and 15% earnings per share growth especially in a year when we were negatively impacted by foreign currency rates and a weaker than expected commercial aftermarket was particularly notable.
As I reflect on the year our performance not only delivered strong results but it also paves the way for future growth.
We announced a number of new program wins and achieved significant milestones on development programs that I expect will continue to drive growth over the next decade.
This was particularly true in Commercial Systems where earlier in the year we announced that Boeing had awarded us a contract to provide our display systems integrated surveillance systems and flight control systems for the 777X providing an important market share gain and completing our suite of the flight decks for Boeing's next-generation airplanes.
And just recently we announced that Boeing had also selected us to provide the avionics gateway server for the 777X which adds another component to our information management strategy.
As a result of these positions the 777X will now rival the 787 in the amount of Rockwell Collins equipment per aircraft.
We also announced that our Pro Line Fusion flight deck was selected by Textron for its next-generation King Air aircraft including the industry's first touchscreen primary flight displays.
In addition we marked a key win with Dassault who chose our advanced cabin management and entertainment systems for its new Falcon Jet 5X and 8X aircraft continuing our role as a sole cabin supplier for its entire new aircraft fleet.
From a development program perspective we saw the Airbus A350 and the Embraer Legacy 500 each achieve their first deliveries during the year.
In addition the Legacy 450 was recently certified.
We're also working on a number of additional development programs that are nearing completion and will enter service in the near future.
The CSeries is nearly complete with its flight test and is expected to enter service during our fiscal year 2016.
And the 737 MAX program appears to be in really good shape and is expected to enter service during our 2017 fiscal year with 1.5 times the Rockwell Collins' content of the current-generation 737.
These are all very important programs for our company and are expected to drive growth over the next several years.
We also strengthened our portfolio of connectivity-related offerings within Commercial Systems during the year.
Our March acquisition of Pacific Avionics helps to ensure Rockwell Collins can offer our customers advanced wireless distribution onboard aircraft strengthening our ability to deliver leading applications through our PES passenger engagement solution.
And in August we acquired ICG or International Communications Group adding the latest generation of Iridium satcom terminals and smart routers to our existing flight deck and cabin connectivity offering.
So as you can see our Commercial Systems business really had a busy year.
And they delivered strong financial results as well posting 6% sales growth and expanding operating margins by 70 basis points.
Moving now to Government Systems I really feel like we hit an inflection point this year.
Despite facing almost $100 million of headwinds associated with the JTRS Manpack program as well as what turned up to be about $40 million of foreign currency impact I was extremely pleased with our sales performance.
In fact on a constant currency basis we actually grew a little in Government Systems this year and continued to maintain our strong operating margins of about 21%.
During the year we announced a number of key contract wins including a $420 million multi-year contract for our ARC-210 advanced airborne software defined radios for the Naval Air Systems Command.
In addition we were awarded a $478 million multi-year contract for the production of MIDS JTRS terminals through our Data Link Solutions joint venture.
And we continued our success in the rotary wing market where we've secured almost all of the future AgustaWestland helicopter programs.
And we were also selected to provide the avionics and mission equipment for the next-generation U.S.
Air Force Combat Rescue Helicopter.
In Government Systems we also achieved a number of critical milestones in development programs this year.
For example we executed on-time development of equipment for the KC-46 the KC-390 both of which achieved their first flights this year.
We also delivered the first Generation III Helmet Mounted Display System for the F-35 through our Rockwell Collins ESA Vision Systems joint venture.
So all-in it was a really good year for our Government Systems as we look to this business growing now in fiscal 2016.
Shifting now to Information Management Service business we delivered double digit growth on the core aviation side of the business and expanded segment operating margins by 200 basis points.
We also met our sales synergy goals for the year.
And I can see real evidence that we're making progress in expanding our connectivity offering.
Some examples include the launch of our live credit card authorization capability with Hong Kong Airlines.
And we unveiled our ARINC MultiLink flight tracking service as well as our ARINC UrgentLink disaster communication network.
UrgentLink actually has a nice synergy with our Government Systems business using our HF communication technology to provide a nation-wide network for disaster recovery communications.
Now turning to fiscal 2016 we're going to experience some near-term challenges particularly in the first half of the year.
Our Government Systems program timing is going to result in declines in the first half and growth in the second half of the fiscal year.
And in Commercial Systems production cuts on the Bombardier Globals will impact the whole fiscal year while growth from our new acquisitions will primarily benefit the second half.
So while it won't be linear I still expect that we will continue to grow our overall business during fiscal 2016 and deliver strong margin and cash flow performance.
And Patrick's going to cover this in a little more detail as he reviews our guidance for fiscal year 2016.
So in summary 2015 was a good year where we executed according to our plan across our three businesses accelerated growth in ways that we expect will continue to enhance our long-term outlook.
And while 2016 is going to be a bit of bump in terms of our overall growth rate I remain optimistic concerning our long-term growth drivers for our company looking forward.
So with that let me turn it over to Patrick to walk us through the financials details.
Thanks Kelly and good morning to everyone as well.
I'd now like to walk you through today's presentation slides that summarize our results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015.
I'll begin on Slide 3 where we highlight our total company fourth quarter sales earnings per share income from continuing operations and shares outstanding.
Total company sales for the quarter decreased $18 million or 1% compared to fourth quarter last year primarily due to the impact of foreign currency rates.
Income from continuing operations increased $11 million or 6%.
And earnings per share from continuing operations increased $0.11 or 9% compared to the same period last year.
The rate of increase in earnings per share from continuing operations was more than the rate of income in continuing operations because of the favorable impacts of our share repurchase program.
As we turn to Slide 4 Commercial Systems achieved revenue of $636 million in the quarter about flat with the same period last year.
Sales related to aircraft OEMs decreased $8 million or 2% to $372 million primarily due to lower sales for Chinese regional aircrafts partially offset by higher deliveries in support of the A350 and Legacy 500 entries into service.
Aftermarket sales increased $8 million or 3% primarily due to higher regulatory mandate sales partially offset by lower spares provisioning for the Boeing 787 program.
Commercial Systems operating earnings increased $5 million or 4% with operating margins improving 90 basis points from 22.1% to 23%.
Operating margin benefited from lower company-funded research and development expense and cost savings initiatives partially offset by higher employee incentive compensation expense.
Moving on to Slide 5 Government Systems revenue decreased by 4% to $581 million driven by lower JTRS Manpack sales lower rotary wing hardware sales and the impact of the stronger U.S.
dollar all partially offset by higher tanker/transport hardware deliveries and increased sales from development effort on modernized GPS products.
Government Systems fourth quarter operating earnings decreased $8 million to $129 million resulting in an operating margin of 22.2% compared to the 22.6% in the fourth quarter last year.
The decreased operating earnings and margin resulted from: the lower sales volume; higher investment in research and development expense; and higher employee incentive compensation expense partially offset by favorable hardware product mix and cost saving initiatives.
Turning now to Slide 6 Information Management Services sales increased 6% over the prior year as commercial and business aviation services sales increased low double digits partially offset by lower sales from the non-aviation-related businesses due to the timing of certain airport programs and the exit of a government program.
Information Management Services fourth quarter operating earnings increased $8 million to $29 million resulting in an operating margin of 17.4% compared to the 13.3% in the fourth quarter last year.
The increase in operating earnings and margin was due to: higher sales volume; a very favorable mix of higher margin aviation-related sales; and the absence of certain licensing costs incurred in the prior year.
Looking next to Slide 7 we show our full year fiscal 2015 results for revenue income from continuing operations earnings per share and operating cash flow.
If there's any slide I'd like to pause and reflect on this is the slide.
Fiscal 2015 was a great year for Rockwell Collins.
In a year where we were posted double digit growth in income and earnings per share I was particularly pleased with 13% growth in operating cash flow.
We had a great fourth quarter that led to our highest ever operating cash flow total for any fiscal year in our company's history.
For the full year we generated $749 million of operating cash flow compared to $660 million last year.
The increase in operating cash flow was due to higher earnings coupled with a focus on receivable collections and controlling production inventory as well as lower pre-production engineering spend.
Slide 8 provides an update of our total R&amp;D investment for the full year.
Total spend increased from $934 million in fiscal 2014 to $986 million in fiscal 2015.
Company-funded R&amp;D increased $4 million due to increased spend associated with positioning Government Systems for new growth opportunities partially offset by lower A350 development cost in Commercial Systems.
Customer-funded research and development expense increased $74 million due to: higher development costs for international programs in Commercial Systems; higher costs for next-generation avionics programs in Government Systems; and higher amortization of pre-production engineering costs.
Pre-production engineering investment net decreased due to lower spending on the A350 program.
Moving to Slide 9 we show the status of our capital structure.
During the fourth quarter we were able to pay down our short-term debt of $297 million going from $745 million at the end of the third quarter to $448 million at the end of the fourth quarter.
Our current debt-to-EBITDA ratio stands at 1.7 as detailed on Slide 11.
I believe this level of debt still allows us the necessary cost-effective access to fund our capital needs and expect to modestly decline by the end of fiscal 2016 as we balance our debt pay-down with share repurchases dividends and hopefully some acquisition opportunities.
Now on to Slide 10 where we provide a summary of our fiscal year 2016 financial guidance which is unchanged from our initial fiscal 2016 guidance issued in September.
Commercial Systems sales are expected to grow low single digits as high single digit growth in air transport is expected to be offset by a decline in the mid-single digits for business and regional due primarily to the production cuts on the Global 5000 and 6000.
Government Systems sales are expected to be up low single digits paced by mid-single digit international growth and a relatively flat U.S.
DoD sales.
And Information Management Services are expected to grow high single digits.
Now before I move on I wanted to talk through some dynamics that will impact our sales between the first and second half of fiscal 2016 in Commercial Systems and Government Systems.
Within Commercial Systems because of the impact of lower Global production rates in the first half and timing of entries into service we're expecting a relatively flattish first half of the year in Commercial Systems.
In the second half of the year we should get some additional benefit from rates increasing on the 787 and narrow-body aircraft at Airbus.
In addition we get more benefit in the second half as the A350 and Embraer Legacies accelerate their rates and we begin to see initial CSeries production.
The acquisitions that we've completed in fiscal 2015 particularly the Pacific Avionics' wireless distribution business is also expected to ramp its production in the second half of the year.
So what does this mean? Most all of our growth for the year in Commercial Systems will be back-end weighted.
Within Government Systems we expect tanker/transport sales to be relatively flat in the first half and accelerate in the second half primarily due to a few international C-130 upgrade programs.
In other avionics programs we expect the first half to be down and the back half of fiscal 2016 will benefit from the timing of simulation and training programs as well as a Black program.
We also expect surface sales to be down in the first half of the year due to lower targeting system revenues electronic intelligence programs and expect these programs to be relatively flat in the second half of the year compared to fiscal 2015.
What does this mean to overall Government Systems? We will likely be down mid-single digits in the first half of the year and expect all of our growth will be in the back half of the year.
Another area that will impact our first and second half fiscal year 2016 is our effective income tax rate.
As we noted in our fiscal 2016 guidance issued in September we expect the fiscal 2016 effective tax rate to be about 28%.
And we're exploring a number of potential tax savings opportunities that will likely impact our tax rate in the second half of the year.
As a result we expect some lumpiness in the quarterly tax rate with it being in the range of 33% for the first two quarters and lower in the back half of the year.
Just as a reminder our guidance assumes that we will not get any benefit from the Federal R&amp;D tax credit.
That completes my review of the financial results and projections so Ryan back to you to kick off the Q&amp;A session.
Thank you Patrick.
In order to give everyone the opportunity to ask questions we ask that you limit your questions to one per caller.
If you have further questions simply reinsert yourself into the queue and we will answer those additional questions as time permits.
Operator we are now ready to open the lines.
Thank you.
And your first question comes from the line of Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hey.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
If you can review maybe what makes you comfortable with your aftermarket outlook for 2016 be it that aftermarket seems like it's been all over the place for everybody.
How do you feel comfortable with your outlook and then how do you make us feel comfortable with it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we certainly adjusted our outlook based on the results we've seen through fiscal 2015.
And there's no question that we saw a softer aftermarket than we originally guided to in fiscal 2015.
So if you look at what we're forecasting the air transport we said high single digit overall for air transport growth.
I think that's going to be relatively balanced between OEM and aftermarket in terms of growth rates.
We've got some pretty good demand good visibility on HUD retrofits in the air transport market.
That'll drive some of that somewhat offset by reduced demand on some of the mandate revenues.
We also see in the second half that as Patrick said much of the growth of the acquisitions is in the second half and much of that comes through the aftermarket as they're doing aftermarket retrofits.
We've been pretty conservative in our outlook for the MRO component.
I think as you know the MRO in bus av really tracks with the utilization.
And air transport we have seen recycling this past year.
I think that's going to continue.
We've got that factored into our forecast but we are seeing pretty good demand because we are also in the used parts business with our Intertrade.
So we're offsetting some of that softer recycling MRO by actually selling used components.
So I think we're going to see pretty flat to low single digit growth in the overall sparing for the year.
And I think we've taken into account our experiences here this past year and forecasted those in our outlook here going forward.
Okay.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Seth Seifman from JPMorgan.
Your line is now open.
Thanks very much.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about CapEx.
And this is not meant to pick at all but the number for the year $210 million came in a little higher than the $200 million guidance.
You guided for $200 million again this year.
It's up around 4% of sales.
Is that mostly in the ARINC business? And if so where is it? What is the trajectory like as we look out further from here? Yeah Seth I'd say the uptick has certainly been in the ARINC business.
And I think what you're going to see is probably holding steady around $200 million for the next few years.
We've substantially increased the investment in ARINC compared to what they had prior to our ownership.
And it's really funding a number of different growth areas for us.
So although I don't expect that spending to decline materially I also don't see it increasing over the course of the next few years.
So I think at $200 million as being a pretty good benchmark for the next few years.
Great thanks.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Cai von Rumohr from Cowen &amp; Company.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
Thank you very much.
So related bus jet class gen's first Bombardier I guess said that they're throwing in the towel on the Lear 85.
When would you expect to get reimbursement for your deferred engineering there? And secondly can we expect any announcement of new product wins on your part at NBAA? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well okay so we have about $27 million on the books associated with the Lear 85 program.
This termination will trigger the reimbursement of that.
I don't know off the top of my head the payment terms of it.
I mean we just heard that as well.
So we'll be exercising that here over the next quarter.
What was the second question? Anything new wins at NBAA? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Nothing that I'm going to preannounce in the call today.
Well I don't want you to preannounce it but are we likely to have any announcements? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We always have announcements Cai at NBAA.
Okay terrific.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Robert Stallard from Royal Bank of Canada.
Your line is now open.
Thanks much.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Rob.
Morning.
Hi.
Kelly I was wondering if you could comment on the Government Systems outlook and what you've factored into this in relation to what's going in D.C.
Did you imagine there was going to be a full year CR or this budget deal or anything else like that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Our baseline plan was that we would have a one quarter CR and a budget deal before Christmas.
And generally a one quarter CR doesn't have any full year impact to our overall revenue forecast.
If you recall a couple of years ago that was extended beyond the quarter and we did see some impact.
So that was the baseline assumption.
The budget deal is a good outcome here.
We now need to get the appropriators together and get this CR budget complete and appropriations complete before Christmas which it looks like that's going to happen.
I don't think the fact that we got a little bit of budget above the sequester level probably is not going to have much impact to us in 2016 but certainly bolsters our long-term outlook for growth in our government business for domestic programs.
Okay.
A quick follow-up if I may the LRSB announcement the other day I don't know if you can comment on this but does that have any impact on your forecast? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We can make no comment on that.
Okay.
Your next question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Myles.
Are you there? Myles Walton? Inc.</span></strong> Sorry yeah.
Thanks.
Good morning.
First question I had was on you've mentioned the 1.5 times content on the MAX versus the NG in the 737.
You made a comment on the 777X rivaling the 787.
Can you put the 777X relative to the current 777? Is it a similar 50% increase in content or any measure you can put around it? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
It's roughly two times our current content.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> 2X.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then the other one funded backlog you usually report at year-end for Defense.
And I'm curious what dynamic that saw at year end to give us an indicator of forward-looking and also whether the Black program that Patrick mentioned is already in that backlog? Thanks.
Yeah actually when you look at the 10-K disclosure you're going to see the funded backlog on the government side of the business come down just a little bit.
That's actually masking some growth and it's largely due to the effect of foreign currency.
I think absent the foreign currency we would have grown backlog a little bit.
I think with the foreign currency impact you're actually going to see it shrink just a little bit.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Sheila Kahyaoglu from Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Could you maybe delve into the performance in IMS? You mentioned favorable mix in the quarter and maybe how we should think about the profitability outlook for the segment going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah the way I'd describe it Sheila is that was an unusually profitable quarter for us.
I don't see that recurring.
We had a couple of favorable adjustments on some programs in the networks business that yielded very high profitability.
So I think probably a couple hundred basis points of that was related to I'll say those revenue adjustments on those programs that aren't likely to recur.
And just a quick follow-up if I may on business jet aftermarket it was up 7 what's your strength there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we did see a little bit better utilization.
And we saw on the MRO side and on the discretionary side a pretty good uptick in mandate-related updates TCAS particularly.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Sam Pearlstein from Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Sam.
Can you guys talk a little bit about the CSeries? Just with the announcements yesterday I guess two pieces; one the company had talked about 15 to 20 deliveries in the next year.
I'm just wondering how does that compare to the plans for production that you have in your 2016 outlook.
And then separately with regards to the pre-production engineering does Bombardier's write-down affect your assessment of those capitalized costs and your ability to recoup those costs over the same number of units? What I'd say is first of all with respect to our assumptions in the plan I'd say the Bombardier announcement certainly solidifies the number of aircraft we had in the plan.
If there's any upside it's pretty modest to the plan there Sam.
And as it relates to the deferred engineering it really doesn't change our view of the collectability of that deferred engineering.
Again we had different assumptions with respect to the number of CSeries aircraft than Bombardier going into the program.
And so we have not reassessed that at this point.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi David.
Two questions; first one when you guys announced your fiscal 2016 guidance you talked about I think it was $10 million to $15 million in restructuring.
Can you detail exactly what that's going to? And is that actually are any savings included in your guidance for this year? And then the second question Patrick could you just walk us give us a bridge from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2016 operating cash flo? It looks like you're forecasting relatively – I mean you have a range but mid-point relatively flat.
Thanks.
Yeah.
As it relates to restructuring we disclosed in our guidance $0.10 to $0.15 of restructuring.
And that's largely severance costs.
Now the reason why we posted a range is there is a bit of uncertainty with respect to the take-up rate of a voluntary early retirement program that we're currently in the middle of.
So although it's difficult to assess the impact I would say the take-up rates to-date has been pretty good.
And I would say we're going to be at the high end of that $0.10 to $0.15 range maybe even a little bit above that range.
Now as it relates to savings incorporated we did incorporate some estimated savings in our guidance as well.
However obviously the pick-up rate's higher.
We may have a little bit of incremental savings as well that we can flow into the numbers.
So we did have an estimated charge plus some estimated savings which will true-up here in the first quarter.
And I think by the time we release earnings for the first quarter we should be able to give you a pretty good sense as to where that restructuring charge and the resulting savings is going to be.
As it relates to cash flow the number that we posted you're right.
The midpoint's about $750 million about flat.
It does mask some improvement particularly in deferred engineering.
And what's causing that to be masked is largely on the income tax line.
As I mentioned in my remarks we're not assuming the benefit of our R&amp;D tax credit.
That provided pretty substantial both earnings and cash benefit in FY 2015.
And although we're able to offset the earnings impact through some tax planning strategies that I referenced those aren't going to come with a resulting cash benefit at least not immediately.
We'll get the cash benefit over time.
And so we're going to have a substantial increase in cash taxes year-over-year.
And that's what's masking the cash flow improvement.
Patrick in terms of our modeling so we should assume the restructuring charge comes through in Q1 and then the savings occur as we go throughout the year? That's a very good assumption yeah.
We'll have the charge and then won't have much of any savings in the first quarter and the savings will bleed out over the next three quarters.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
Kelly I wanted to ask sort of a high altitude question if I could but with many of your development programs entering service over the next few years so you've got the A350 some of the Boeing work MAX 777X tanker.
Do we at some point enter into a bit of an R&amp;D holiday assuming that there aren't a lot of newer programs behind those and that this could change the slope for your earnings growth at some point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we talked about the cash flow tailwind we're going to get associated with that where we're going to see a reduction in deferred engineering spend associated with a lot of those programs.
So yes that is going to come down.
I'm expecting our expensed R&amp;D to continue to stay pretty level as a percent of sales.
Now remember we're putting things like the 777X now we're expensing that.
So there'll be some program expense there.
But we're a technology differentiating company.
We're going to continue to invest in new features and functions that we can sell into the aftermarket and stay competitively ahead of the game.
So I don't think you'll see from an expensed R&amp;D any kind of a tailwind there.
I think we're going to keep that relatively flat.
Okay.
And then just an unrelated not really a follow-up but just another quick question with the activity that you're seeing at Intertrade does this give you any kind of read-through to what's been plaguing aftermarket? And is there a point at which Intertrade slows down enough to suggest that the glut in the surplus market might revert to more strength in traditional aftermarket? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it has given us a lot of visibility to what's going on.
And it's the parts recycling and there's a couple of components to that.
I think we've got aggregators in the market.
And when you have aggregators they can service more aircraft with fewer spares.
And I think you're seeing that across the industry that the aggregators are having effect on historical spares' sales levels.
And then I think using used parts initially started out as a U.S.-based cost-cutting measure.
I think it's now turned into a best practice.
In fact in the last quarter we've seen some international customers who historically only bought new spares now using recycled components in their MRO.
So I think that's here to stay.
And I don't think we're going to see that turn off in the short-term.
The trick for our Intertrade business is just making sure that we're buying the right components that have the right demand.
And as the aircraft retire we're going to continue to focus on making sure we're buying those right components.
In most cases we've got a good portion of our business case sold before we actually buy the aircraft and start tearing it down.
So given the global expansion of that activity is this a business you'd like to grow? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That's why we have it.
I think it's a good offset.
It doesn't come with near the margin that selling new spares and componentry does but it is something.
It's being growing double digit.
And I am expecting it's going to grow double digit here in 2016 as well.
So yeah it's a big component of our overall aftermarket strategy.
Okay.
Thanks Kelly.
Your next question comes from Richard Safran from Buckingham Research.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Rich.
Morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wanted to know if you could discuss maybe the progress you're making in connectivity solutions with respect to your partners Global Xpress OneWeb and Iridium.
In 2015 Kelly you talked a lot about the flight tracker and the inflight credit card reader.
Do you have anything that's cropped up that you would like to highlight here as a meaningful opportunity you're seeing for 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well.
Yeah.
Let me give you an update on GX.
This is the new broadband service provided by Inmarsat.
We've captured our first two customers as a service provider where we'll be putting the equipment on the aircraft getting the STC and then have the service so that's well underway.
And I'm pretty excited about that.
I think that's one of these synergy areas that's going to continue to grow.
We've got a lot of proposals in works providing connectivity solutions and services so both the equipment and the connectivity going forward.
So I think that's playing out about as we expected and it's going to be a big component of the synergy growth.
If you recall we said about $10 million of synergy last year out of our IMS business.
In fact we achieved about $12 million.
Next year that goes to $20 million.
So we got a step-up of $10 million.
And I think connectivity is going to be a big component of that.
Now we also as I mentioned in my comments acquired ICG.
ICG provides the new radio set that we also are a value-added reseller of the service.
So we'll be able to go to market for full-end solutions with our customers there as well.
And we've got a lot of proposal activity underway.
We have transitioned from a trial phase on our global tracking to a revenue-generating phase.
We did about a little less than a six month trial with nine leading customers airlines and we're now through that.
That's been very successful and we'll move that to the revenue-generating phase of the program going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great color.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Peter Arment from Sterne Agee CRT.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good morning Kelly Patrick Ryan.
Kelly I guess on IMS you continue to make great progress there on the aviation-related businesses.
You kind of label them as non-aviation portion as kind of holding or at least offsetting some of that growth.
Are these non-core businesses or are they just complementing to the overall IMS business? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well they weren't the subject of the acquisition.
Let me put it that way.
And what we've been doing this past year is focusing on how we can make those businesses less lumpy less project-based and more sustained revenue.
So they have not grown quite as fast as I had expected when we first made the acquisition.
This is going to be a big year for us because we've got out of some activities that we didn't want to continue.
We've refocused those businesses.
We're now off selling Positive Train Control as a service as opposed to a one-time NRE project.
And so I think this is going to be a big year for us.
And I'm expecting to see those segments have better growth than what you saw here this past year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Carter Copeland from Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
Morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Carter.
Inc.</span></strong> Patrick I wondered if you could give us just a little bit of color on the IMS sort of more granular trends.
I think you had a tough compare in the airports and rail piece for this quarter but obviously the aggregate number was good.
I wondered if you might just give us some detail on what those pieces look like and what the trends look like especially in the bus jet flight planning stuff given what we're seeing in terms of utilization in the market right now? Thanks.
Yeah Carter what I think you'll see next year is probably a more steady growth from the IMS business.
You're right.
We've seen kind of a lot of lumpiness with respect to the non-aviation business.
And as we've sort of lined out IMS by quarter unlike the other two businesses it's going to be pretty steady growth quarter-to-quarter year-over-year.
And the way I'd characterize it as being high single digit growth; again still stronger growth in the business and air transport aviation-related segment and slightly lower growth in the non-aviation-related the airports rail and security over fiscal 2016.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Carter I'd just add to that that we've had that good growth in spite of some pretty significant headwinds in a number of international trips going in and out of China Russia and Brazil.
Both those areas have been headwinds just because of the economic situation in those regions but we've continued to grow that business in spite of that and we expect that will continue.
Inc.</span></strong> That's great color.
And Kelly as a follow-up to Rob's question were you happy on Tuesday night or could you have been happier? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I have no comment.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Your line is now open.
Yes.
I wanted to pursue it looked like your 2015 revenue growth was slightly below the low end of the guidance that you gave in mid-September.
It would seem that that's due to the business jet OE.
And if that's true I was just wondering what happened that you weren't able to foresee it with only a couple of weeks left in the year.
And then the follow up is since you didn't change your revenue growth for 2016 versus 2015 does that imply at this point that we're probably at the lower end of the guidance range that you put out? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know George as we close the year if there's something that didn't meet my expectations it was not the business aviation revenue it was actually Government Systems.
We had a contract for the installation and equipment associated with the KC-135 Block 45 update.
That was planned to be a very late in the year award and then immediate sale of the equipment.
We did get the contract but it came in at a lower number of aircraft than we had anticipated.
And so if I look at where we finished up our revenue was a little light a little disappointing from our government business going forward.
That's also going to have a little bit of a challenge for us in 2016 because what they chose to do is modify less of the aircraft.
This is a multi-year mod program.
And they've kind of put those aircraft at the end of the program.
If KC-46 can accelerate those may go away which in the end I don't know that that wouldn't be that good news for us but it is going to push some aircraft to the right.
So it really wasn't a surprise in bus av it was more a surprise in government business.
Yeah.
And I'd just add I wouldn't read too much into the impact on FY 2016 guidance.
It wasn't a very significant miss for us and I think we're still well within the range of what we communicated in September.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Jason Gursky from Citi.
Your line is now open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hey good morning everyone.
Just going back to the IMS segment Kelly you've spoken in the past about bandwidth being a gating factor to growth and that expectations of the longer-term was that there was going to be more availability of bandwidth for you to provide even more interesting services.
Can you talk a little bit about where we are with regard to that bandwidth? I know that there was a launch during the third quarter.
I'm just wondering if that's going to have any material impact for that business over the next year or two.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that was my comment on the Global Xpress.
That is the broadband communication capability that is just coming online.
We're just going through the process of winning the launch customers as I mentioned the two.
But what we have to do is we have to go – it's a new radio that goes on the airplane before we can initiate service.
We have to go get that radio integrated and certified on each aircraft type.
So that will happen throughout year.
And by the way we're not the only one doing that.
Honeywell is doing that for example as well.
All bringing this broadband connectivity into the market so you'll see that grow over the next couple of years.
It's not going to be a one and – it's not going to be a big bang because it does take time to first of all book the STCs in place.
And then second of all get the retrofits all lined up and get the airlines lined up to do those retrofits.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And Kelly at one point will all new aircraft go out the door at the OEM level with those radios already installed? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well it's going to be a few years yet.
The OEMs are looking at a forward fit or line fit certification of this kind of capability but currently they aren't operable as standard equipment on any of the forward fit aircraft.
I would guess and this is just kind of a rough guess I would guess over the next three years that will all change.
And they'll cut in and we'll be delivering those as selectable equipment.
Typically broadband connectivity even today has been selectable by the airline.
It's not necessarily standard.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Ciabattoni from KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Kelly how are you thinking about the 777 at this point as it relates to a potential rate cut in your outlook for this year and longer-term? I mean we had Boeing say it could possibly go as low as seven a month.
I know you mentioned you had kind of different assumptions about the CSeries versus what Bombardier had just kind of wondering if that applies to 777 as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well for this year we've assumed that they sustained rates for fiscal 2016.
And by the way they would have to cut rates here within the next quarter probably to have any impact on our 2016.
So the real question is how many aircraft in our fiscal 2017 and we've got a little time before we're providing 2017 guidance on that.
I suspect we'll have a better handle when we do put that guidance out.
Typically this is an area where we do align pretty closely to what the OEM is saying.
We don't find much variability.
So I'd listen to what Boeing says and assume that's going to flow through to us.
By the way the existing 777 is a pretty high BFE content airplane for us.
So it's not – a rate cut will have some impact on us.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you guys.
Your next question comes from Ken Herbert from Canaccord Genuity.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning Kelly.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Ken.
Inc.</span></strong> I just wanted to follow up on the business jet discussion.
I mean I know when you provided guidance for business jet OE down low double digit you had a fair amount of conservatism and probably realism baked into your guidance even just beyond obviously what we've seen at Bombardier.
Has anything happened in the last month and a half two months since you gave the guidance that may have eaten into some of this conservatism or some of the buffer you had or are you still seeing things as you saw them on the OE side specifically with business jet considering all the news we've had recently relative to two months ago? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well first of all the predominance of the low double digit decline was the Globals then as we said...
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We provided some additional well what I'll call general discount to the mid to light going into the year.
No haven't seen that necessarily consumed.
But I'm also – we're just starting and market conditions have been generally soft.
I will say that the announcements or the earnings calls since we put out guidance haven't indicated significant weakness in production rates.
So hopefully I'm wrong and won't need the discount but I think it's prudent given the history we've seen.
And utilization rates just have not been very strong and backlogs still are relatively weak so we'll have to see how that plays out.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And just then as a follow up you had a good quarter and I know you talked about this for business jet aftermarket were there any specific sort of one-time items in the quarter that maybe pulled that forward a little bit? And I know obviously you're still sticking to the low single digit outlook for 2016 but any commentary and more detail on the quarter would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well what really drove in the quarter was mandate-related activity.
We've got a couple of new FANS which are navigation system updates that we've got certified and will enter into the market and we started to see a little bit of that.
But I'd say the good quarter was from a discretionary perspective was predominantly the mandate-related activity.
That mandate activity is going to – is not going to grow in 2016.
That will probably be a little bit of a headwind for us going forward into 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from George Shapiro from Shapiro Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Yeah just two quick follow ups what would the growth have been in the large OE aftermarket if you took out the 787 provisioning? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know.
I guess about mid-single digits.
Because I would think in 2016 that negative issue isn't going to be there because I would assume it's probably compensating...
Yeah I would agree.
We've sort of reached a steady state run rate on 787 sparing.
So I agree with you.
I don't think that's going to be a headwind next year for us.
And then just one quick one Patrick how much higher was incentive comp roughly at the commercial and government areas? It was $16 million in total George split basically 50%-50% between the two businesses so $8 million each.
$16 million? Yeah.
$16 million Patrick you said? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
$16 million yes.
Thanks.
Yeah thanks very much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from David Strauss from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks for taking the follow-up.
Patrick the Q1 restructuring will that run through Commercial Systems? No.
The restructuring charge itself we'll treat as outside of segment operating earnings.
That's what we typically do.
Okay.
And then just a question on the pre-production I think a while back you had a chart that showed pre-production coming down a fair amount in 2016 and looks like it's not going to come down as much now.
Can you talk about what the additional spending is going towards? I think it's coming down about $40 million year-over-year.
I'm trying to remember the chart you're talking about.
I suspect there is incremental spending largely on things like the CSeries and Globals because both of those programs have been delayed.
Yeah.
The chart you had I think this from your Investor Day whenever you had your last one and looked like the spend was around $100 million and the now spend ex-amortization looks like it's around $150 million.
Is that right? I was thinking more like $140 million.
But yeah I do think the vast majority of the additional spend is related to those Bombardier programs.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from Pete Skibitski from Drexel Hamilton.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning guys.
Just a couple of questions on government the JTRS Manpack program I think is set for an award in the January or February timeframe.
Do you guys have a sense of how many awardees they are going to be and would a win positively impact your fiscal 2016? And then just I was wondering if there are any other meaningful competitive opportunities on the government side that we should look out for.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well that one is a very meaningful competition for us but not for 2016.
They are going to select multiple suppliers.
By the way the proposals have been submitted so they're in the source selection process right now.
They'll select multiple suppliers two or three has been the indication that we have.
That somewhat is dependent on the compliance level of the proposals that go in.
But part of that program includes once you're selected you provide prototype radios to the Army and then they go through a test and evaluation program before they turn around and buy quantities of radios so all the revenues will be outside of our fiscal 2016.
In terms of other big programs in Government Systems we got quite a few international C-130 update programs that should come to source selection here in the next six months so that a space to watch because we are anticipating some of that will drive growth for us in the second half.
And then we have just the significant quantity of smaller level programs.
I will say it was nice to get both the ARC-210 and the MIDS IDIQs in place so that we can get the annual buys bought against those.
And again those are – our 210's going to drive some growth for us as well as the data link.
The MIDS is a data link.
That will drive some growth for us in 2016 as well.
We've got the base contract but we need to get the annual buys then in place against those base contracts.
We're also seeing some uptick in GPS modernized GPS awards.
And so that's another space to watch over the year because I am anticipating some pretty good growth in that area as well.
Well thank you.
Your next question comes from Robert Spingarn from Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi again.
I just wanted to ask about 757 767 cockpit retrofit and what the activity level has been there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we had good growth last year with some launch customers.
We're working a couple of campaigns right now nothing yet that I can announce but we are expecting to continue to also see growth in 2016 with that large-format display retrofit program.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Ron Epstein from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Yeah.
Hey thanks for the follow up guys.
Kelly in your prepared remarks you talked about you're making some investments for new opportunities in Defense right.
So that kind of begs the question if you can answer it does long range strike bomber benefit you guys or not? And then what other future opportunities are you investing in? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well no comment on the first program.
Obviously the JTRS program which we've got to bring pretty much a non-development item radio to the table so that's quite an investment.
And then we're continuing to always invest in next-generation capability particularly as we're bringing commercial flight decks into the military market.
So for example some of the rotary wing applications that I talked about typically what we need to do is bring fusion components but militarize those.
And we'll spend R&amp;D doing that militarization work so that we can be competitive in bringing those commercial technologies into that military market.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Operator we have time for one more question.
And your final question comes from Myles Walton from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for the follow up.
The question is in 2016 if you can comment on Commercial Systems growth it looks organically like maybe it's flat.
Ex-Bombardier what would the growth look like? And number two pro forma for 2016 how much of your revenue is Bombardier at this point? Thanks.
I would say ex-Bombardier we're talking about mid-single digit growth for Commercial Systems on an organic basis.
As it relates to total Bombardier revenues it's probably under 5% of the total our total revenue at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I turn the call back to Mr.
Miller for any closing remarks.
Thank you Shawn.
We plan to file our Form 10-K in about three weeks so please review that document for additional disclosures.
Thank you for joining us today and participating on the conference call.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.