Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President – Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you Mary.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Campbell Soup Company's First Quarter Earnings webcast.
With me here in New Jersey today are Doug Conant the President and CEO of Campbell; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance.
Doug and Craig will provide their perspectives on our performance for the quarter as well as our expectations for the full fiscal year.
Following their remarks we'll take questions from analysts and investors.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that our call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes certain forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which inherently are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Please refer to slide three in the presentation or to our Company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated or expressed in any forward-looking statements.
Our presentation today includes certain non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules so we've provided a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides that accompany our presentation.
These slides including the appendix can be found on our website.
Now I give you our President and CEO Doug Conant.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning.
Happy Thanksgiving.
This morning we reported earnings per share of $0.82.
This result was consistent with the estimate we gave on November 10 when we adjusted our annual guidance.
At our Analyst Day last summer and in our Annual Report we gave a consumer view of our entire portfolio.
We divided it into healthy beverages baked snacks and simple meals.
We further divided simple meals into meal makers and meals.
Within that framework we delivered a strong performance in healthy beverages this quarter.
We also delivered solid results at Pepperidge Farm which comprises over half of our baked snacks business.
In addition sales of condensed cooking soup the largest component of meal makers rose this quarter.
Growth in these businesses supported a 1 point quarterly gain in volume mix an important improvement compared with minus 4 points in last year's first quarter.
With that as background today I'll give you some perspective on the performance of our largest simple meals business U.S.
Soup.
Then I'll focus on the softness in the ready-to-serve soups and condensed eating soups since they are the primary drivers behind the recent guidance change.
I'll also highlight the actions we're taking to improve our soup performance over the balance of the year.
As we discussed earlier in our earlier release in the first quarter to improve our soup volume performance we stepped up our promotional profile launched an umbrella advertising campaign and improved our in-store merchandising.
We saw pockets of strength most notably our condensed cooking soups and our Healthy Request soup varieties both of which delivered sales and volume increases in the quarter.
However our promotions did not deliver the planned volume increases in our ready-to-serve soups or our condensed eating soups.
The backdrop for the limited market response to our promotional activity in these two soup segments during the quarter reflects the difficult consumer environment which as you know is pressuring volumes of other industry players.
It also suggests an extraordinary competitive activity within the category.
This competitive activity affected both our ready-to-serve soups and our condensed eating soups as competition very aggressively promoted ready-to-serve soups in many cases at prices on parity with our condensed varieties.
As reported earlier we chose not to match some of this promotional activity.
In my view it simply was and is not in the best long-term interest of the category.
As we look forward to the balance of the year we expect the second quarter to be extremely competitive potentially comparable to the first quarter.
While this will put pressure on our earnings again next quarter we will maintain a strong promotional program to protect our leadership position with consumers and to honor our customer commitments.
As we move in to the second half of our fiscal year in anticipation of commodity cost inflation and to improve profitability we expect to adjust our promotional programs to improve price realization and to begin rebalancing our marketing mix towards advertising and brand building.
In addition we will step up our investment in innovation to drive category growth.
We'll cover more on these fronts at CAGNY in February.
Now to expand on our performance in the quarter and to review this year's profit delivery expectations I'll turn you over to Craig Owens.
Good morning.
I'll take a few minutes to walk you through the first quarter results and segment highlights and then I will follow with some comments on our fiscal 2011 earnings guidance.
For the quarter we reported net sales of $2.172 billion down 1% versus the first quarter of 2010.
Excluding the favorable impact of currency translation organic net sales decreased 2% primarily due to lower sales in our U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segments where we significantly increased promotional spending.
EBIT of $444 million for the quarter was down 7% versus a year ago primarily due to the increased promotional spending partially offset by productivity improvements in excess of cost inflation and by favorable mix.
The quarter's EPS declined 6% to $0.82.
For perspective we were lapping a very strong quarter a year ago in which adjusted EPS grew 14%.
In the first quarter we reported net sales decline including a decline of three points attributable to the impact of increased promotional spending primarily in North America.
This was partially offset by a one point increase from volume increase and a one point increase from currency translation.
Organic net sales decreased 2%.
Our gross margin on slide 10 declined 70 basis points to 41.2% in the current quarter from 41.9% in the first quarter of 2010.
The change was primarily due to increased promotional spending partially offset by productivity gains in excess of inflation and by favorable mix.
Despite increased advertising and consumer promotion spending marketing and selling expenses decreased 2% to $277 million.
The decline was primarily due to lower selling expenses as we have reorganized our sales teams in the U.S.
to improve effectiveness and efficiency.
We also realized cost savings in marketing overhead for the period.
Administrative expenses increased $7 million to $140 million.
Three factors drove most of the change a 40% increase in U.S.
pension expense higher long-term incentive compensation cost and currency.
We have focused on cost savings efforts in the areas of selling and general and administrative expense to mitigate the impact of inflation in compensation and benefits and we are seeing positive results from these efforts.
EBIT declined 7% in the first quarter due to the impact of higher promotional spending on sales and gross margin.
As Doug discussed while higher promotional spending across many of our businesses drove higher volumes it did not yield the planned volume lifts in our U.S.
ready-to-serve and condensed eating soup businesses.
Net interest expense for the quarter increased 11% or $3 million driven by a higher mix of fixed rate debt in the portfolio following the issuance last year of $400 million in long-term debt.
Reflecting the higher interest expense net earnings declined 8% for the quarter.
Diluted shares outstanding were reduced by 2% in the quarter due to the favorable impact of our ongoing share repurchase program.
Our share repurchases moderated the impact of the change in net earnings resulting in an earnings per share decline of 6%.
Now I’d like to comment on our segment results for the quarter.
In the U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segments sales declined 3% primarily due to a 5% decrease in U.S.
soup sales.
The decrease in U.S.
Soup was attributable to lower price realization driven by promotional depth and frequency.
Our healthy beverages business continues to perform extremely well.
Both volume and sales increased by double-digits.
We posted gains in V8 vegetable juice V8 Splash juice drinks and in successful innovations including our new V8 V-Fusion + Tea varieties.
The level of competitive activity in our sauce categories increased this quarter.
Sales of Prego pasta sauces declined slightly as higher promotional spending was partly offset by volume gains and sales of our Pace Mexican sauce business declined.
Operating earnings declined 11% to $295 million this quarter from $331 million a year ago.
The reduction was primarily due to the increased promotional spending partly offset by supply chain productivity gains in excess of cost inflation.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter declined 5%.
Condensed soup sales declined 1%.
Ready-to-serve was down 13% and broth sales fell 2%.
As we mentioned earlier the two segments that comprise our simple meals portfolio are meal makers those products which are used as ingredients in a meal; and meals those products which are simply heated and consumed.
Within meal makers we had strong performance in sales of condensed cooking varieties which rose 7% as the business responded to our marketing efforts.
While our broth sales were down slightly we expect improved performance in this business during the holiday season.
Our issue in meals has been in our eating soup varieties both ready-to-serve and condensed.
We increased our promotional spending yet did not achieve the planned levels of volume gain.
Our promotional spending in the ready-to-serve segment and even steeper discounting by competition lowered sales in our condensed business as the price gaps between ready-to-serve and condensed narrowed.
Looking ahead we expect to spend competitively through the second quarter and then begin to shift our marketing mix from trade promotions to more advertising and equity building activities for the second half.
We anticipate that this shift will improve our profitability in the back half and help offset an anticipated increase in cost inflation.
On slide 16 there is a look at category performance in the United States during the latest 52 weeks based on IRI panel data and Campbell internal estimates.
Economic conditions remain very challenging making it more difficult for the entire food industry to grow sales.
In the soup category specifically increased promotional spending by Campbell and by other branded players has not succeeded in growing the overall category either for the quarter or for the year.
The overall category declined 6.8% in the past 52 weeks.
Our sales declined 7.7%.
Private label dollar sales also declined over the 52-week period.
Private label's market share in soup grew in the past 52 weeks yet at only 12.5% its share in soups significantly trails its share in most other mature food categories.
Campbell's dollar share in wet soup for the past 52 weeks was 62.4%.
The decline in our dollar share was driven by ready-to-serve soups and condensed eating soups.
From a volume share perspective our increased promotional activity kept our market share steady this past year.
In Baking and Snacking organic sales were comparable to a year ago.
Volume sales in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's were offset by increased promotional spending net of pricing.
In Pepperidge Farm volumes rose due to the strong growth in Goldfish snack crackers gains in Baked Naturals and the successful expansion of the Deli Flats line.
Sales in our Arnott's business in Australia were comparable to a year ago as continued strong gains in Shapes and Vita-Weat savory crackers were offset by declines in chocolate and other sweet biscuit products.
Earnings for the segment were flat versus prior year.
Currency gains and growth in Pepperidge Farm were offset by lower earnings at Arnott's as we lapped double-digit growth at Arnott's in the year ago period.
Organic sales in International soup sauces and beverages were comparable to a year ago.
Gains in Europe driven by Germany and gains in the Asia-Pacific region driven by volume improvement in the Australia soup business and in Japan were offset by sales reductions in Latin America.
Operating earnings for the segment rose 16% reflecting strong earnings growth in Europe.
Continued weakness in the food service sector led to organic sales and earnings declines of 5% and 12% respectively in our North America Foodservice segment.
Moving now to cash flow and the balance sheet on slide 21.
Cash flow from operations was a use of $29 million compared to a use of $36 million a year ago.
The impact of lower pension contributions in the current year was offset by higher working capital requirements and lower earnings.
Capital expenditures of $27 million declined from $44 million a year ago.
In the first quarter we repurchased 4 million shares for a total cost of $156 million under our strategic share repurchase program authorized in June 2008 and under the Company's ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset those issued under incentive compensation plans.
Net debt was $2.789 billion a decrease of $40 million compared with a year ago.
In our news release on November 10 we revised our 2011 guidance and we are confirming that guidance today.
For the year and reflecting a one point favorable impact from currency translation we expect growth in net sales of 1% to 3%; adjusted earnings before interest and taxes comparable to the prior year; and earnings per share growth of 2% to 4% from the prior year adjusted base of $2.47.
As Doug mentioned we'll continue to spend a competitive levels on the second quarter putting downward pressure on our margins which will likely result in a quarterly earnings decline and first half results that will be directionally similar to the first quarter.
We expect earnings growth in the back half of the year as we improve price realization achieve further productivity gains from our supply chain maintain our good expense management and continue to realize the earnings per share benefit of using our free cash flow to repurchase shares.
Our full year guidance is based on our assumption that achieving improved price realization will improve sales growth in the second half.
With that I'll turn it back to Jennifer for the question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Thanks Craig.
At this time Mary we're going to conduct our Q&amp;A session.
I'd like to request that our callers limit themselves to a single question so that we may respond to more people who have questions in the queue.
However we would like you to stay on the line while we answer your questions just in case clarifications are needed.
Hello Vincent.
Hello Andrew.
Good morning.
Doug when you arrived at Campbell some ten years ago or so you took certainly a fresh look at the business fresh eyes and you made some tough decisions rebased the earnings level to increase your investments in R&amp;D and marketing and lot of those investments really did pay off and you saw much better soup growth and a much better track record there in the years that followed.
I'm curious if you were to take a similar look at the business today and it's a little bit harder admittedly but with fresh eyes almost as if you were again an incoming CEO and I realize Denise will of course have her say on all of this in due course.
But if you were an incoming CEO what would be the two or three key things that you would point out today to investment community that might give us some perspective on it? You want that answer in 25 words or less Andrew.
Maybe the one or two key things then.
Sure.
The first thing I had observe is what a great category and what a great leadership position we have.
We are in nine out of 10 households in the United States.
In U.S.
Soup we have on average anywhere from 8 to 10 cans in the pantry.
We are incredibly relevant to today's consumer.
So we have a high penetration and we have a real presence in the fabric of American families in the U.S.
Soup business.
Our challenge I think is to deal with some paradigm shifting going on where our consumers are rethinking the way they purchase their food and beverage products.
If  I was to look at it I'd say clearly the increased promotional activity that was accelerated by some of the competition just hasn't helped the category.
My experience is when we innovated the category benefits and we win.
When we innovated at earlier in my tenure with the first microwavable soups Soup at Hand was the product of the year in the food industry and the category grew.
When we innovated with iQ Maximizer under Shelf the category grew.
When we innovated and ready-to-serve soups with the whole new fresh look at our Select Harvest franchise target at women Select Harvest was the product of the year in the food industry and the category grew.
I think our challenge is that we didn't have adequate innovation to attract consumers in a compelling way to the category this year and price alone is just not enough.
The other thing I think we need to do is get back to a better balance between our promotional spending and our brand building activity.
We are competing with a lot of simple meal alternatives we have to have a meaningful presence there.
We're in the pantry we've got to get out of the pantry and we have to increase usage.
We're not going to do that through price promotion that puts more in the pantry we've got to pull it out.
So I think the focus on brand building and relevant innovation are the two keys for the U.S.
Soup business.
That having been said I feel great about the platforms we built in our healthy beverage portfolio and our baked snacks portfolio as I shared in July.
We arguably have the best performance in the world in baked snacks over the last five years and we have great innovation there.
We arguably have the best performance in healthy beverages in the last five years and particularly in vegetable-based beverages.
We have great innovation there.
So we've got to innovate and brand build in soup the way we have in the past and the way we're doing in the other categories and that in 25 words or less is the challenge – or more… That sounds fine.
I appreciate the perspective and I guess maybe some had perhaps expected hopefully that some of the restage on condensed this year and some other things you're doing would have been maybe enough of a step up although not where you ultimately wanted to get to but had a bit of a better soup performance coming into this year? Yeah interestingly Andrew it’s too early to call on the condensed soup relaunch.
We had terrific response on half of our portfolio in condensed cooking soups.
Where we got hurt was in condensed eating soups with aggressive price competition from other players price competition that I honestly believe is not sustainable and we just chose not to compete at that level and we will slog through that over the next quarter or two.
Thanks Doug.
I appreciate this.
Okay.
Mary our next question please.
Hi Vince.
I am glad we got you here.
I know.
I am sorry about the phone difficulties.
I guess my one question would be – You are going to blame the phone? Doug you talked about eight to ten cans being in the pantry.
If you look back over time is that eight to ten a consistent number that’s been in there or is that number going up or down and is there risk that that number is going to go from eight to ten to six to eight or four to six? Well it’s roughly steady but I'd say if I had to – our measurement in this area is not – it's hard to measure but if I were to say anything there's been a tick up in this period and over the last 12 months and so it's not an issue per se of people putting our soup in the pantry.
Our challenge is getting it out of the pantry which is why we chose not to be as competitive as we could have been in our promotional spending.
We believe in the long-term benefit of brand building and we're going to focus on that as we go forward.
Do you think that there's any risk that the amount of spending that you need to put in place in order to get the soup out of the cupboard is in excess of what you're sort of modeling today? Well we've got to rethink that given the environment as it's changing but I think there was some good work done by someone from your crowd that talk about our share of spending and I think that we've got a commanding presence there.
I think we can find our way through that but we clearly have to have better balance between our trade spend and our consumer spend.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
I will pass it along.
Okay.
Thanks Vincent.
Next question please.
Hi Eric.
Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Happy holidays.
I guess the question and maybe a bit of a follow up on Andrew's earlier point in terms of the innovation success I guess Doug I agree with you that it isn't necessarily always our focus but you have been quite strong in biscuits and beverages whereas the innovation in soup of late has lagged and obviously hurt the category.
In fact it seems like the category decline actually accelerated in the last quarter versus the trailing 52-week data that you gave before.
In any case the question is is the nature of the categories in biscuits and beverages that it’s more of an impulse purchase and that that’s making the innovation there easier or more successful versus the soup which is just I guess inherently less impulse oriented or less convenient oriented and that’s the challenge? A couple things Eric.
First of all I think the reason you see the deterioration in category performance is not necessarily due to innovation.
It’s simply due to some very aggressive price promotion and sales deflation.
I think on a volume basis it's holding up just fine but nonetheless the sales dollars are down.
I believe every category has its own rhythm and we focused heavily on renovation here within our U.S.
Soup portfolio this year.
We were very focused on getting our product quality up our sodium levels down.
As you know we have front-of-pack labeling coming in the next few years and we wanted to make sure that our portfolio was very prepared for front-of-pack labeling in a very positive way.
We’ve done that but what I meant was we did a lot of renovation and not a lot of innovation.
Now other peers have also talked about that and there is a recognition in today’s environment you need to create more excitement in your category.
We just didn’t do that in soup this year but I would go back to – we have done it in prior years and we have done it in other categories.
So our challenge now is to rethink how we compete and take a fresh look as Andrew talked about given the reality that the consumer is changing their shoppings behavior and we've got to come up with creative solutions here because some of the ways we've approached it in the past are not necessarily working as we would have expected.
Thank you for that.
But as a follow-up to that do you see that as being a either SG&amp;A or capital expenditure as pretty high cost.
When again to Andrew's point when you came in a decade or so ago the Company had basically starved itself and literally you had to upgrade the cooking methodology for condensed.
So are we talking about given the change in the consumer need to really – I don't know aggressively rework the ingredients or how you cook it I'm no expert but just kind of how should we think about that? Eric I personally believe we've got to take a fresh look.
So I don't want to close off any options but that having been said we have a very clear line of sight to how we can improve the processing of our soup.
We've talked about it before in terms of our common soup platform and we have a line of sight to how we can.
It may require some investments which we haven't defined fully yet but where we can deliver soup at a higher quality and a lower cost.
So we have a whole body of work going on there.
But in terms of innovation we have the capacity and we have the funds necessary to step up our game in innovation in soup.
There is nothing that we can't match corporately but we do have to rethink that and we have to keep an open mind and we're going to do that as we go through this year.
I think as we get deeper into the second quarter and move towards CAGNY we'll be a little more clear on that.
Okay I will pass it on.
Thanks Eric.
Next question please.
Good morning everyone.
Hi just sticking with the innovation theme here.
I'm curious about the V8 soup platform.
It feels as though it went through its rebranding after Select Gold transitioning to V8 soup but it's been left with relatively few SKUs in there.
I don't think much marketing has gone behind that brand maybe there is still the limitations that you can't really put bits into it there is not much garnish in there.
Could you just give us some idea about whether there are - could there be major expansion plans in that area and if so what holds you back? Well there is nothing really holding us back.
There is some technology where we can't get full pieces of vegetables and meat into the product given the constraints of the technology and the DA regulatory requirements.
But basically U.S.
consumers like big chunks of meat and vegetables in their soups which this technology doesn't lend itself to.
Now in France Belgium and several other countries where we compete the dominant form is that a septic package that we sell the V8 soups in and in those countries that is a preferred way to eat soup.
We're positioned now to bring that technology to this country and as we get further along with the evolution of the technology and can put bigger pieces of garnish through I think we're going to have an opportunity there.
The important thing for us was to be the first mover in this country in this technology in soup and to be in a position to advance for this as soon as the technology evolved far enough.
I think there's opportunity there.
It won't change the fundamental trend in the category but it's a good niche opportunity and over time it could become bigger.
I think if you view it more broadly too we still feel like there's some opportunity in premium soup.
It may not be all in the septic form but we think we've got some opportunities out there in premium soup.
We've got in our food service business we're having some success with volume growth at the premium end of the category and we think there may be some other ideas out there around the premium end of the category that would go after that same consumer user case.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I will pass it on.
Okay.
And thanks.
Our next question please.
Thanks.
Question on the Healthy Request on your mix of your soups.
You say in the release the Healthy Request varieties had a 9% sales gain across condensed and ready-to-serve.
My question is what is the mix of Healthy Request of each of the categories ready-to-serve and condensed? How rapidly do you anticipate this mix evolving? Separately I guess relatedly do you believe sodium concerns are becoming even more of an overarching demand driver for soup lately or perhaps this is just a result of you converting your soups and the pastings of your soup's to Healthy Request? Thanks.
Sure David and I appreciate the question.
I can't breakout for you Healthy Request by segment.
What I can say is it's had a positive impact across all the segments.
I think we’ve addressed the sodium issue in a very satisfactory way at this point for today and also for tomorrow as we prepare for front-of-pack labeling.
We are always going to have to be alert to dealing with that issue but by and large we think we have addressed it.
I think the challenge for us now is to create some taste adventure and leverage some of our other benefits as we continue to manage the sodium profile.
We’re not as concerned with it today as were before.
We had to position our portfolio to be in the right place when we get to front-of-pack labeling and we’ve done that.
We’ve taken care of the long term and now we got to focus on innovation in near term which goes beyond just the elimination of negatives and starts to celebrate the wonderful positives that we can do with soup.
I think that is going to be our focus on innovation.
Healthy Request by the way is a good example.
If we have a clear and compelling platform that the consumer understands they buy soup in a can and they buy it at (inaudible) rate.
Same thing’s true with our cooking soups.
So we’re not necessarily constrained by the can.
If we have the right proposition we can grow that business and our challenge on our base business is to find that right proposition while we push off into some new areas.
I guess what I’m getting out on that whole thing is if this is being done the right way in your mind as that mix increases so might the stability and then ultimately the growth of the category however… Absolutely that will happen and by the way we sell it at a higher price with a better margin and it's getting increasingly more important in our portfolio.
So it tells us we’re on the right path.
Not only that but we have actually lowered the sodium further on those Healthy Request varieties and the consumer along with improved flavor technology the consumer is buying the proposition.
In the fullness of time I think we’re well positioned there.
Thanks Doug.
Thanks David.
Our next question please.
Doug let me come at it slightly a different way here.
You guys have had some pretty good innovation over the years but if you look at innovation like say microwavables it seems in a bad in a weak economy to have really kind hurt you.
I know the takeaway there you and I've talked about it hasn’t been good.
General Mills they are pretty smart marketers ditto Sam Reed's group.
I guess my question and I hear this a lot from folks is is the answer that we simply have to wait for the economy to turn that soup is just innately going to struggle during a downturn? I mean that’s my worry.
It’s a well-founded worry Terry.
By the way whoever else is on the phone I would appreciate if the next question could go to Craig Owens.
We've got to keep you on the spot until you retire.
I am sorry.
That is a concern because we have a lot of pantry inventory.
People are shopping the pantry.
There is less incentive to go out and buy more soup and we do have to navigate through that paradigm.
There is no evidence that we can't navigate through it other than we had a tough quarter where there was extraordinary price competition that we chose not to match.
So we're going to have to see how this plays out.
Terry we can manage through this.
We've been down this road not quite the same way before when I started our soup business was I wanted to say about $1.700 billion in sales and yes it’s been tough but up until it’s over pushing $2.2 billion now and with good ROIC and good margins and we'll find our way through it.
We do have to step into the innovation work through brand building.
It’s not easy but if anybody can do it we can do it.
Okay.
Thanks very much Doug.
I will pass it along.
Thanks Terry.
Next question please.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Hi Chris.
Doug we are not going to let you off that easy.
My question for you is just in relation to trade promotion and maybe there's two parts to it maybe one.
My point is just that you made some pretty clear comments.
You're looking for price realization now in the second half of the year.
Is that based on a change in your input cost outlook or it's simply just a change in the way you want to attack kind of the advertising versus promotional balance? Well it’s a little of both.
This is a question Craig can weigh in on but I will start the answer.
Clearly the promotional track is not helping the category and I guarantee you it is not helping the other competitors.
I believe when you heard the TreeHouse earnings announcement they weren’t too excited about soup margins either.
So I expect we are going to navigate through this thing and the category will pursue a more rational approach to pricing and margin management.
I got to tell you if it doesn’t we are going to find the right balance but we will have to continue to compete because we're in this for the long-term.
So we're going to have to play this quarter-by-quarter and manage it smartly.
I expect it will be more rational in the second half than it's been in the first half.
There will be pressure on margins.
We are expecting input costs to go up and I expect everyone's going to have to find the way through this.
Craig would you? Just to expand a little bit on the inflation piece of the question.
We would expect input cost commodity cost to be somewhat higher in the second half not hugely so.
In our overall inflation profile for the full year it will not be a lot different than it was in the quarter which was plus 3%.
We'd expect to be in the 2% to 3% range on total cost of goods inflation for the quarter but with a higher contribution from input cost in the second half and a somewhat stronger enabler program and other cost savings in the second half.
We do however recognize just as everybody sees that the general trend in commodity cost is upward and we think it's important that we stay up with that and prepare ourselves not only the second half this year but for next year.
So that is part of what's driving our thinking around price realization.
We've worked hard to responsibly build food quality margins here top quartile in the (S&amp;T) Food Group and with the good return on invested capital.
We're going to work hard to maintain that.
But we also have to compete and that's the balance we're going to work through over the next three quarters.
I just want to make sure I was clear on this better balance between trade and advertising is that accomplished by reducing advertising in the second half of the year.
I guess I already thought you were balanced on those two items? Well we were more balanced until the first quarter and in the first quarter our trade spending was up as you can tell although it didn't go up as much as some of the competitions' trade spending went up.
I expect the trade spending part of that will come back to us in the second half.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question please.
Good morning.
Good morning Diane.
I apologize in advance if you have already covered this I may have missed it.
Could you just comment on what were the volume trends in U.S.
Soup versus takeaway? I do not recall that we commented on the volume trends.
They are better than the consumer takeaway numbers.
I do not want to get into precedent setting here.
But they were better than the dollar takeaway.
Okay.
Is that a concern for you as you head into the second quarter and then into the back half of the year that may be you have a little bit of inventory build? Not particularly I wish we had a problem with inventory build that means our sales would have been higher.
Our volume was still down for the quarter in soup I believe I am looking at so our volume was still down but not modestly.
We came into the year focusing on delivering better volume trends and we did improve the trend line there.
But in my opinion it's very manageable at this point.
In the quarter most of the sales decline Doug mentioned U.S.
Soup sales down 5% most of that is driven by the increased promotional spending and related to inventories we have not seen any material change in retailer inventory level.
I was thinking pantry but we do have visibility to - we manage many of the retailer's inventory levels and we have not seen any change there.
Okay terrific.
Thank you for the commentary.
Thank you (inaudible) heading on to that.
Next question please.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
I wanted to focus on the soup performance relative to simple meals you have not talked about that too much.
Can you just update on how you think you are doing relative to simple meals if you are losing share there? You talked about trying to improve the velocity in terms of number of soups you are selling every year.
But I am trying to figure out whether that is a problem relative to simple meals or it is just a problem within the category itself? Well I do not have a good data for simple meals that is comparable to the data we are sharing with you.
But overall what I can say is last year as we went into the season we saw very aggressive pricing in other simple meals that we believe affected our volume performance.
We started to address that and actually made great headway through August September.
What we see this year is I mean since October we see the other simple meal activity heating up on our price basis as is indicated by all the food company's earnings announcements.
It's a dog fight again in terms of price competitiveness within the category.
I do not have data from other simple meals at this point to talk to you about the outlook for the season.
We will have a better feeling for that as we go through the second quarter.
But there is no evidence that things have abated there.
Okay.
The way I read the progression of things in soups I just wanted to know if I am reading it correctly.
Last year or few months ago you were talking about prices being the issue and bringing down the price points within soup.
That seems to being done now.
Now you are talking about holding back on that a bit.
What is going to be the next trigger? You also today talked a little bit about the possibility of increasing the total dollar spent on marketing including promotions but if this does not work which is if the industry if the soup industry is not as rational in the back half as you expect it may be what is the next thing that you think will need to change here for things to get better? We are always trying to find the right balance between price and value addition.
We call it total preferred value here the sum of the benefits for the price offered.
Every year it is a bit of a poker game and what we learned in the first quarter is that price competition per se does not necessarily help the category and I expect the category over time will become a little more rational and we will see more brand building and we will see a moderated level of price competition.
I do not believe we are not intending to suggest anywhere that total spending will go up in the second half.
We expect our trade promotion spending to come down and we expect to maintain that pretty good solid brand building profile.
We expect to start to bring more innovation to the category.
We think that is a better model for the category and meets consumer needs in a more complete way but we have to see how the game is played by other simple meals and by soup.
What I can tell you is we will find our way through this.
We have performed and we will again.
Okay thanks.
I’ll pass it along.
Thanks Akshay.
Next question please.
Hey Doug I want to know if you remembered several years ago when you did rebase margins and then margins started tipping positive I think you said something about operating margins of 17% to 18% was an appropriate range for the Company.
Fiscal '10 ended up at around 17.7%.
Do I have my numbers right and do you think that that ended up being the right level of margins for the Company or do they need to go lower than that? You have exactly the right numbers.
You did your homework Rob.
Very good.
We have a new reality that we are competing with today.
Back when we talked about this I do not know it could be several years ago we had some competitors that were pushing 20% to 24% kind of EBIT margin levels.
In today's environment – and I thought 17% to 18% for a market leader with our category our portfolio 17% to 18% felt about right.
We think that is about right but we have to manage through it given today's new reality where the competitive fray is intense.
As you see all of our peer group is under margin pressure.
So we are going to have to feel our way through it but you have the right margins.
It is 17.7% and our goal is to be between 17% and 18% top quartile in a sustainable way.
We have climbed that hill and we are there now.
We are going to try and maintain it but we are going to have to see what happens competitively.
Thank you.
Thanks Rob.
Next question please.
Yeah.
I just had a question around the balance sheet and cash flow.
Obviously the top line were weak.
There is a lot of competition in the category soup but I have a feeling I have kind of asked this question before but you still have a pretty solid balance sheet.
Your free cash flow yield stood around 7%.
I am just curious at what point would you expect a little bit more activity in buying back shares or allocating the free cash flow that you are generating to – just try to spur growth and I am not sure if you are trying to save it to put back into more CapEx or what.
If you could just comment on that little bit.
You are right we do have a strong balance sheet.
We have got terrific cash flow.
We have always said that the best investment in our business is one that we can put into organic growth.
As Doug commented we have got terrific margins.
We have got terrific return on invested capital.
So anything that we can do to leverage core businesses and reinvest in those businesses some examples over the last couple of years would be investment in additional Goldfish capacity in our Pepperidge Farm additional capacity in our Arnott’s business in Australia.
All of those kinds of investments have terrific return on them.
As we move down from investment in core business we have said that we would like to be and are more attentive to opportunities around potential acquisitions of businesses that we think could value accretive.
It is not a very target rich environment.
You have not seen us act going one since the relatively small acquisition of Ecce Panis but that would still be a place that we would be looking.
We have had an active share repurchase program as you know probably most of you know we have been working against a $1.2 billion program that the Board approved in 2008 with a three year timeframe around it.
We have a continuing program of neutralizing compensation-based equity issues.
Then the final thing we think about is around dividend.
You saw us just announce a dividend increase coming out of this last Board meeting of 5%.
So we are in agreement with you about the strength of the balance sheet and we look at and the strength of our cash flows and that sort of order of priorities is we think about where we have got opportunities and how best to deploy that cash.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Good morning.
Just a question on where you think retailers stand in terms of their view of the category.
I had the perception that last year maybe the promoted price points in soup were not where they should have been or could have been.
But also that there was some feedback that as the leader in the category that Campbell's needed to spend more on advertising and get more people - pull more people into the category.
So you came to the market with a plan where you have got umbrella advertising and you have got lower price points and more competitive price points than you had a year before and yet we end up in this situation where the decision was made to promote even more.
So is there just a disconnect between the way you are looking at the category versus the way that retailers are looking at it? All I can say is we are lined up with the retailers for a very strong profile over the next quarter or two and I think it is going to settle in in a more positive place.
But our brand building did not start until September 7 and that is when the advertising started and we are just getting moving up on the advertising front.
We believe it is going to take time to establish that brand building profile with the umbrella campaign and we are going to see it through.
The trade promotion in the first quarter was the wild card.
We did not get the lifts we would normally have expected and we have to go back to the drawing board on that.
Part of the issue was that competitive activity was even more intense and we have to sort to that as well.
I guess my point is without talking about getting into the competitive details we believe we can find our way through.
We have the margin structure.
We have the capabilities to compete in that category.
We are just going to have to feel our way through.
We obviously have to lead the category to higher ground and we intend to do that over the next three quarters but we are going to have to feel our way through it.
I do not think there is any fundamental disconnect between us and the retailer.
There is a lot made of sort of the push and shove between manufacturers and retailers.
Right now I think what you are seeing across the whole food industry is that it is a really difficult environment.
You are seeing negative same-store sales out of probably most retailers you are seeing down spending across all categories in the grocery store both dollars and units have been down over the last several periods.
I think we are all looking for ways to sort of reinvigorate the consumer and my feeling is being a little bit distinct from the direct contact with the retailer but we are all looking for ways to get the consumer moving again.
I guess I just have the perception that you responded to some of the – Campbell's responded to some of the observations that were done in peer reviews or in category reviews and what you've done is basically undermined by the level of promotion that was allowed to occur in October and I guess that is the part that I am having trouble with…? I think the challenge is we have got to play the hand we have and we are going to continue the brand building which we know takes time.
The other lesson learned I would say is that renovation was insufficient to drive short-term sales performance.
We were making changes and we are evolving our U.S.
condensed soup portfolio to be well-positioned when we get to front-of-pack labeling in the next two years to get our health profile right.
We have done all that but we had insufficient innovation on top of that to get consumer interest.
So we have got to step up the innovation while we continue to do all this renovation work and we will do that.
We will profile more of that when we get to CAGNY.
Okay thank you.
Next question please.
Thanks for taking the question.
Good morning.
I am just trying to better understand the cadence of the numbers that you moved through the year here.
You talked about expectations for improved performance in the back half but I am wondering why you might not start to see some of the improvement in Q2.
Getting back to last year you saw some improvement the quarter after you course corrected so to speak after you had a weak quarter.
You had such an easy comp in the second quarter I am trying to understand why the improvement might not come a little bit sooner than you seem to be expecting.
As a quick follow-up to that what gives you confidence that you can get better price realization in the back half of the year when you think about the current competitive environment? Good questions.
Obviously we are giving you – trying to give you a feel for our quarterly flow of business but we do not give quarterly guidance.
We could do better in the second quarter.
These are unusual times as reported by the entire peer group and we are feeling our way through it.
We have enough evidence to suggest that we can do better on the price realization front in the back half.
We now know in today’s environment what is working from a trade promotion perspective and what is not and that has changed a bit since even a year ago.
So I think we believe we can refine our trade promotion plans in an intelligent way deal with today’s reality and be more effective and more efficient in the back half.
I think to add if you think about where the big months are in the soup season we have made customer commitments that run through the back end of the first quarter and well into the second quarter which is sort of heart of the increase in sales on a seasonal basis.
So we have got pretty good visibility where we will be promotionally there.
If you remember last year the change in the formula a little bit came between again second quarter and third quarter not between first and second.
Fair enough.
Thank you.
Thanks Ed.
Next question please.
Thanks for taking the question and happy holidays.
Just looking at your comments in terms of the back half of the year for the first half of the year obviously you are promoting heavily and you plan to for the second quarter and were not seeing the lifts that you liked.
What gives you I guess the confidence that in the second half as you pull back on some of that promotional activity tilt the portfolio more towards – tilt the marketing mix more towards advertising and actually take promoted price points up that you are going to see a positive volume and sales improvements? Eric I would just say we have some insights into what is working right now and what is not and we see pockets where we clearly overspent and did not get the return.
So there are some low-fruit opportunities.
We are also working with our retailers who are also looking to bring more profitability into the category.
It is informed judgment that we can do better but we have to wait and see.
I think the other point is looking at the portfolio beyond soups we are expecting improved top line performance in some of our other segments.
That is a great point because we do have very robust plans in baked snacks and healthy beverages.
Also our meal maker business with condensed cooking soup is doing very well and our Healthy Request soups doing well.
So we are dealing with a relatively small part of our earnings pool that is the issue for us and clearly it is important.
But we believe we have enough buoyancy in the rest of the portfolio that we can navigate this.
Quick follow-up question on innovation it came up several times the importance of innovation and your innovation not being enough this year.
I am wondering is there something about the soup category that you feel you kind of capped out on the innovation potential.
You had the big moves in sodium reduction I am sure there is more of that to come.
But could you perhaps preview a bit for us what you are in talk about at CAGNY give us some sort of framework to think of the innovation that is coming in the soup category? What I would share with you and we will cover more of this at CAGNY is that we do have ideas in the pipeline that have been well developed and we are preparing to move to market.
Typically in food there are five benefit areas you have taste nutrition convenience variety and value.
We have really leaned in hard on nutrition and convenience as two key foundational areas that needed to be attended to with the soup business over the last decade and we have put ourselves in a solid position there.
Now we have to lean a little bit harder on the taste variety and value dimensions and we have ideas there.
So those will be coming with us to CAGNY.
Okay I will pass it on.
Thanks.
Thank you Eric.
And we will take our final question.
Ah thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Judy.
Doug I know that the innovation and brand building obviously are important to grow the category.
But do you think perhaps maybe your underestimating the price issue in the category.
What I mean by that is last year you basically got hurt because you had a lot of competition from Simple Meals.
This year you got hurt because the competition really stepped up more aggressively and granted it is only one month's data but you look at Progressive's performance in the last month their volume was up 40% plus.
So I am just wondering as you had look at the category and sort of take a fresher look at what you need to do brand building innovation and everything else you kind of also have to look at sort of the price points and adjust that part of the equation? Absolutely.
We are in a battle every day.
We compete for it.
The 40% plus is a big number.
But the incremental shift of cases competition shipped in October was only 2% of our U.S.
shipped volume for the first quarter.
You talk about big numbers on small basis with virtually no returns.
We can manage our way through this Judy.
Okay.
Okay thanks.
Okay and operator we'll conclude our call with that.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you Mary.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Campbell Soup Company's second quarter earnings webcast.
With me here in New Jersey today are Doug Conant our President and CEO; Denise Morrison our Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance.
Doug and Craig today will provide the perspective on the performance for the quarter as well as our expectations for the full fiscal year of 2011.
Following their remarks all of us will take questions from analysts and investors.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today Slide 3 include certain forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which inherently are subject to risks.
Please refer to that slide in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
I'd like to remind you as well that our presentation contains certain non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules.
In an appendix to our slides we've provided a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
The slides as well our earnings release and selected quarterly financial data can be found on our website.
Last we'd like to remind you that we're hosting a presentation and luncheon featuring Campbell products at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York event next week.
Our presentation begins promptly at 10:30 Eastern Standard Time on Wednesday February 23.
We hope you will join us either via webcast or better yet live in Boca Raton.
And with that I give you our President and CEO Doug Conant.
Good morning.
This morning we reported earnings per share of $0.71 a 4% decline.
For the first half we delivered earnings per share of $1.53 a 5% decline.
Sales declined 1% for the quarter and the first half.
Our results for the first half combined with a more muted outlook for the balance of the year gave rise to the change in annual guidance that we provided in this morning's news release.
Today I'll be focusing my remarks on our largest segment U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages.
That having been said as Craig will highlight later I would point out that year-to-date our other three segments all reported operating income growth.
In the second quarter similar to the first we continued to protect our U.S.
Soup consumer base by maintaining a strong advertising and promotional profile in the face of a very challenging environment.
As a result in measured retail channels wet soup consumer takeaway volume growth rose meaningfully outpacing the average gains in other Simple Meals during the period.
However also similar to the first quarter our increased promotions in the second quarter were costly as we strive to maintain our competitive profile and honored our customer commitments.
This promotional spending pressured our gross margin rate again similar to the first quarter and negatively impacted our EBIT performance.
Before I turn to the second half outlook let me comment briefly on our Sauces brands Prego Pasta Sauce and Pace Mexican sauce.
Prego and Pace are large profitable brands for us.
For many years they have been profitable growth engines as well.
More recently private label and value brands have made inroads in Sauces.
As a result our Sauces performance in the second quarter was highly pressured.
We expect intense competitive pressures in U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages to remain in the back half of this fiscal year.
This challenging environment for the balance of the year gave rise to the change in our annual guidance that we announced this morning.
That having been said we currently expect improved sales EBIT and EPS performance in the second half of our year.
Later in our presentation Craig will elaborate a bit more fully on our plans to improve profitability including increasing price realization and expanding our margins in preparation for higher inflation in fiscal 2012.
So I won't go into that now.
Let me just make a broad observation about what we're focusing on at Campbell.
As other food companies have noted the overall environment remains challenging particularly in the U.S.
We continue to believe that the key to success is innovation with the right price value proposition supported by effective consumer marketing.
Delivering that combination with all our brands in a consistent way is the focus of our action planning going forward.
Denise and I are committed to working together to advance these plans in order to deliver consistent top and bottom line growth as we have done in the past.
We look forward to advancing our thinking further and during the Q&amp;A and at the upcoming CAGNY conference.
With that I'll pass it along to Craig Owens.
Thanks Doug.
Good morning everyone.
I'll spend a few minutes walking through the second quarter results and the segment highlights followed by our year-to-date results and I'll conclude by addressing our revised full year earnings guidance which is provided in our news release this morning.
For the quarter we reported net sales of $2.127 billion down 1% versus the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding the favorable impact of currency translation organic net sales decreased by 2%.
As anticipated we maintained a high level of promotional spending through the second quarter which has negatively impacted the sales performance of our U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segment.
As Doug noted we achieved good sales growth in our Baking and Snacking segment.
Primarily as a result of the margin impact of higher promotional spending EBIT declined by 8% in the quarter to $359 million.
EPS was $0.71 in the quarter down 4% as compared with the second quarter of 2010.
Our reported net sales decline of 1% was composed of a two point decline in organic sales partly offset by a one point gain from currency translation as both the Australian and Canadian dollars have strengthened.
As you can see from Chart 9 our increased promotional spending drove a two point decline in sales accounting for the overall decline in organic sales as volume mix and pricing were comparable to a year ago.
Due to the elevated promotional spending in the quarter our gross margin percentage declined from 40.5% to 39.4% a decrease of 110 basis points.
Marketing and selling expenses declined from $301 million to $291 million this quarter reflecting reduced levels of advertising and lower selling expenses.
The latter is due to cost savings initiatives.
Advertising expense in U.S.
Soup and Sauces declined partially offset by increases in beverages and Pepperidge Farm.
Administrative expenses increased 3% to $154 million.
As I noted earlier EBIT declined by 8% in the quarter.
Below the line net interest expense rose 19% an increase of $5 million driven by the higher mix of fixed rate debt in the portfolio following the $400 million long-term debt issuance that we did in last July.
The tax rate declined 1.9 points to 27.1% due to lower taxes on foreign earnings.
With the lower tax rate offsetting the impact of higher interest costs net earnings similar to EBIT declined by 8% in the quarter.
Average shares outstanding decreased 3% in the quarter as we continue to execute our strategic share repurchase program.
As a result the 8% decline in net earnings yielded only a 4% decline in our earnings per share.
In our segment results for the quarter U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages sales declined by 4%.
This change reflected lower U.S.
Soup sales attributable to the overall increase in promotional spending and a sales decline in Sauces in the face of stepped-up competitive activity.
Sales of both Prego and Pace were below year-ago levels.
Private label gains in the Mexican sauce category have had a negative impact on our Pace sales.
Sales in U.S.
beverages were down slightly falling 1% for the quarter.
Sales of V8 Vegetable Juices declined while sales of both V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash increased.
Operating earnings declined 15% to $220 million this quarter from $259 million a year ago.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter declined 4%.
We experienced declines in both condensed and Ready to Serve soup down 7% and 4% respectively.
Broth continue to perform well with sales increasing 7% reflecting another successful holiday period.
U.S.
Soup sales were negatively impacted by our increased promotional spending and also by movements in customer inventories.
While our sales were down I should point out that we achieved strong externally measured consumer takeaway volume in the second quarter a significant improvement in marketplace performance from the first quarter.
Additionally our market research would indicate that our new portfolio advertising campaign is effective and that consumers report a positive impact.
Looking ahead we'll begin to shift our marketing mix from trade to brand-building activities including this advertising and additional consumer spending.
This shift is designed to improve our price realization while building our brand equity.
We recognize that the shift will negatively impact volumes in the short term but we feel it is the right move toward improved category health.
In Baking and Snacking organic sales increased 5% reflecting volume driven gains in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
At Pepperidge Farm sales increased due to gains in Goldfish and Baked Naturals snack crackers Milanos and Homestyle cookies stuffing and the successful expansion of the Deli Flats line.
Arnott's in Australia posted stronger sales due to gains in savory crackers led by Vita-Weat and Shapes as well as growth in Tim Tam chocolate biscuits partly offset by a decline in other sweet varieties.
Earnings increased 11% in Baking and Snacking due to the volume-driven growth in Pepperidge Farm.
Organic sales in our International Soup Sauces and Beverages segment decreased by 3% reflecting lower net pricing as we increased spending levels to maintain volumes.
The organic sales decline reflects lower sales in Latin America Canada and Europe.
Operating earnings decreased 7% in the quarter primarily due to declines in Europe and Canada.
While we're seeing improvement at some parts of our Foodservice business most notably the refrigerated soup sold in retail grocery perimeter our overall sales declined by 2% in the segment in the quarter.
Earnings in the quarter increased $4 million or 24% driven by favorable foreign currency transaction rates and the benefit of our cost reduction efforts.
Let me turn now to our first half results on Slide 17.
Reported net sales decreased 1%.
Organic net sales were down 2% driven by promotional discounting in U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages.
EBIT of $803 million was down 8% versus a year ago primarily due to increased promotional spending and costs inflation partially offset by productivity gains and favorable mix.
EPS declined 5% to $1.53.
For perspective it's important to note that we're lapping a very strong first half from a year ago in which EPS increased by 14%.
For the first half of the year our reported net sales declined 1% and similar to the second quarter reflected a decline of two points attributable to the impact of increased promotional spending partly offset by a one point increase due to currency translation.
The organic net sales decline was due entirely to the increased promotional spending.
Gross margin percentage decreased from 41.2% to 40.3% for the half.
This 90 basis point decrease was primarily due to increased promotional spending and cost inflation partly offset by productivity improvements and favorable mix.
To date inflation in ingredients packaging and energy items has been very modest and we benefited from our procurement contracts and commodity hedges.
Looking ahead we anticipate increased inflation primarily  in the areas of grains oils sweeteners and steel cans.
As a result our Baking and Snacking business has taken pricing action already.
And as I mentioned we anticipate improved price realization in U.S.
Soup in the second half of this year.
Our marketing and selling expenses decreased from $585 million to $568 million reflecting lower selling expenses.
We've reorganized our U.S.
sales team to improve efficiency.
Administrative expenses increased from $282 million in the first six months of 2010 to $294 million this year.
This increase was primarily due to higher benefit costs including pensions and healthcare costs associated with our new headquarters facility information systems-related expenses and currency partly offset by lower compensation expense for the half.
Below the operating line net interest expense increased 15% or $8 million driven by the higher percentage of long-term debt in the portfolio.
The tax rate at 30.2% was down 80 basis points for the first half the benefit of which offsets the higher interest expense.
For the first half net earnings decreased 8% and diluted shares outstanding decreased 3% thus EPS declined by 5%.
In the segment results for the first half U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages sales declined by 4% driven by a 5% decrease in U.S.
Soup sales attributable to the overall increase in promotional spending.
Sales of Campbell's condensed soups declined 4% reflecting weakness in our condensed "eating" varieties.
Sales for Ready to Serve soups declined 9% driven by increased promotional spend which did not yield the anticipated volume lifts.
Broth sales increased by 2% due to a solid holiday performance.
Beverages performed well for the half.
Sales rose 5% on solid volume gains partly offset by the impact of higher promotional spending.
Strong sales gains in V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash were slightly offset by lower sales of V8 Vegetable Juice.
Sauce sales declined for the first six months reflecting lower sales in Pace Mexican sauces as we have been negatively impacted by private label activity and in Prego Pasta Sauce as we have increased promotional spending.
Operating earnings declined 13%  to $515 million.
Category performance in the United States during the last 52 weeks is shown on Slide 22 and is based on IRI Panel Data and Campbell internal estimates.
The overall category declined in dollars by 3.4% in the past 52 weeks.
Our Soup sales declined 4.1% and all other branded players declined 1.6%.
Private label dollar sales declines were in line with the category down 3.2%.
While it's not shown on the chart Campbell and other branded players had increased volumes in the Soup category.
While the volume performance has been positive the gains were not sufficient ultimately to translate into dollar gains as the chart shows.
Trends in both dollars and volumes were stronger in the most recent 13 weeks according to the IRI data and Campbell estimates.
Category dollar sales rose 1.7% in the quarter and volume growth was 5.9%.
Campbell benefited showing growth in both dollars and volume for the quarter.
Campbell's dollar share in wet soup for the past 52 weeks was 62.9% down 50 basis points.
The decline in our dollar share came from Ready to Serve soup.
Private label's dollar share of soup was flat at 12.3%.
For the half year Baking and Snacking organic sales increased 2% as both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's achieved volume gains.
Earnings increased 5% due to gains in Pepperidge Farm and the impact of currency partially offset by lower earnings in Arnott's.
The Arnott's results compared to a very strong period a year ago in which earnings increased by double digits.
We're pleased with the results for our Baking and Snacking business which has benefited from high levels of innovation and compelling advertising.
Organic sales in International Soup Sauces and Beverages decreased by 1% primarily due to declines in Latin America and in Canada reflecting higher promotional spending partly offset by gains in Asia Pacific.
The sales increase in Asia Pacific was primarily due to volume-driven gains in Australia.
Operating earnings increased 2% to $120 million compared to $118 million a year ago driven by volume gains and productivity savings partly offset by higher promotional spend.
Sales at North America Foodservice declined 3% while earnings increased 2% reflecting the impact of favorable currency transaction rates and our efforts to aggressively manage costs in this business.
Cash flow from operations shown on Slide 25 was $483 million declining $13 million from a year ago.
The impact of lower pension contributions in the current year was more than offset by higher working capital requirements and lower earnings.
Capital expenditures of $74 million are down from $103 million a year ago.
For the year we now forecast capital spending of approximately $275 million.
In the first half we repurchased 16 million shares at a total cost of $573 million under our strategic share repurchase program authorized in June 2008 and our ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset those issued under incentive compensation plans.
Net debt was $2.796 billion an increase of $259 million.
Turning to our revised full year guidance on Slide 26.
We're anticipating improved second half financial performance relative to our first half.
We also now expect slower growth than previously anticipated particularly in our U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segment as we manage the transition to reduce promotional levels in Soup and operate in a very competitive environment which is impacting the entire segment.
Below the line we continue to assume that the combined impact of changes in net interest expense and taxes will not be material to the year.
We now forecast sales to be between plus 1% and minus 1% for the year adjusted EBIT to decline 3% to 5% and EPS to decline 1% to 3% from the adjusted base of $2.47.
This guidance range implies improvement in the back half most of which will come in the fourth quarter as we cycle a very strong third quarter from last year.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jennifer.
Thanks Craig.
At this time we will conduct the Q&amp;A session.
We'd like to request that our callers limit themselves to a single question yet stay on the line in case clarifications are needed.
This way we hope to respond to more callers.
Mary can you give us our first question? Our first question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
I guess my question has to do with the difference between the soup shipments versus the consumer off-take.
And I guess Doug maybe you could just kind of walk us through as the quarter kind of progressed because I thought that -- I don't know I guess we never want to talk too much about weather but I would have thought with the weather being the way it is that retailers maybe would have if anything stocked more soup not kind of cut back on the number of -- the amount that they had.
So maybe if you could just bore through that.
Eric maybe I'll jump in there and then if Doug or Denise have anything to add.
I think the first thing to recognize is that we started into this period a pretty heavy promotional discounting in the third quarter of last year.
And consequently we had fairly strong shipment levels and a certain amount of inventory build coming into this quarter.
Secondly I guess I would acknowledge that as you're well aware it's hard to read with great precision movements in inventory inside all of the channels some of which are unmeasured at the store level and at the pantry level.
So we're very encouraged that the takeaway was as good as it was in the quarter.
I don't feel like we lost any sales because of what was going on with respect to inventory levels.
But clearly as you look across the first half of the year the promotional activity has not -- we haven't gotten the kind of lifts that would have paid for the kind of promotional activity that we've done across the first half of the year.
Just building on it we do have the volume growing again which was essential.
We wanted to protect our consumer base.
As you recall a year ago we were losing some of our base to other Simple Meals.
And we said we have to protect that with the consumer and we have but in the deep promotional environment that we're in not just in Soup but in the broader Simple Meals arena retailer inventories are getting increasingly difficult to measure and manage.
We have visibility to pieces of those inventories but not to the full range of outlets and channels.
So I feel good about the direction.
But clearly we had some inventory that got worked off.
And then just as a quick follow-up just any thoughts on do you think the pretty bad winter so far helped some of that consumption? And is that maybe what's giving you a little bit more confidence in the second half to pull back on the promotion and just kind of let advertising do the work? Just a few thoughts on that.
Historically at least the 10 years I've been here we sort of naturally pull back from price promotion as we go into the spring and summer so this is a very natural cycle here.
We also have visibility into the performance of our advertising campaign which is the best performing campaign that I've seen since I've been here in terms of consumer response.
So given that we naturally pull back anyway and that we've seen positive encouraging response to the advertising I think it's a natural thing for us to do but Denise may want to expand on that one.
I think that going into the second half of this year we have the opportunity to better balance our price promotion with our brand building now that we have a stronger campaign.
Our next question comes from Terry Bivens from JPMorgan.
Doug here's a question for you.
All of our data seems to indicate that you guys really throttled back on promotion during the month of January which I found a bit surprising.
Is that consistent with the actual strategy? And if it is what would be the thinking there during that single month? Terry we didn't really -- I won't get into a discussion on month-to-month promotional planning.
But I would say we broadly speaking across-the-board with all of our major customers we maintained our promotional presence through the entire quarter.
What I will acknowledge is that other branded competitors one in particular was very aggressive again in January and may have attracted more of the promotional attention in that month.
But Denise I may be wrong but I think we maintained a pretty solid profile and we maintained our advertising presence throughout.
Exactly.
And just to follow to that I guess the big question is how much of a threat is this competitor you just mentioned to the more rational strategy in the second half? I mean if they really hit the pedal on promotions doesn't that really compromise the strategy or how are you looking at that? Historically the category has not been particularly promotionally sensitive when we get into the spring and summer.
The retailers aren't particularly interested in running hot deals on soup in April.
So typically -- and the consumer is not particularly looking for hot deals on soup in April.
So I personally believe we're going to -- the more balanced approach that Denise is taking and that she just spoke about makes sense and we can weather the storm here.
We have good brands to compete in the space.
We have good advertising against it.
We will offer very good price value still relative to other Simple Meals.
And as we've highlighted in the past oftentimes depending on -- in most periods we have more interaction with other Simple Meals than we do with the branded competitors in Soup.
And I think in that broader arena we'll be sufficiently competitive.
Denise would you? Terry I think going forward we know that when we have competitive price value and we have great advertising and brand building that's when we grow profitably.
And I think although I was very happy with the consumer takeaway in volume for the quarter it came a high cost.
And therefore we need to make sure that we are growing our earnings as well as our net sales.
Episodically we have experience.
When we hit stride with sufficient innovation sufficient brand building activity balanced with responsible trade promotion we know we can make this proposition work.
We just have to do it with greater consistency.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I want to ask about -- to look at this quarter not only do I see a lot of advertising on TV but I know you've been keeping it pretty heavy on advertising.
It was down in the quarter according to I think the numbers Craig mentioned.
Is that just a matter of timing? We're going to keep kind of the foot on the pedal for the second half of the year and move towards more advertising.
Can you talk about that please? The GRPs were down I think modestly but we're talking about still very high levels of advertising and we believe that at a threshold level.
And we are committed to maintaining that as we've indicated.
But Denise do you want to expand on it? Chris a couple of things.
First of all we maintained a very high level of advertising.
We actually had a different mix of 30s and 15s which impacted our GRPs.
But our anthem campaign which was our a 30-second was very very productive.
So that was one of the changes we made and we will continue advertising heavily into the third quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And I just want to be clear on kind of a comment you made earlier on Simple Meals.
And I guess that's obviously been a challenge for the Soup category.
And you got more promotional and more aggressive clearly in this quarter from a takeaway standpoint did well versus other Simple Meals.
But obviously the cost was very high to get there.
So what I'm trying to understand is that a sustainable strategy is this what it takes to be competitive against Simple Meals is simply to be more promotional more price promotional? Chris I think the best way to describe this is that starting in the first quarter this year we did have an observation of a larger amount of switching between Soup and other Simple Meals.
And because the advertising campaign was new and it took time to gain traction the lever that we had to use was to get more competitive on our price promotion.
We were successful in getting that switching behavior back to what we call normal levels.
Meanwhile the advertising is starting to get traction so we believe we have a much more balanced marketing mix to work with going from the second half of this year forward.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi Investments.
Can you comment on shelf space in the Soup category? Are you holding shelf space? Is it declining? How do we kind of -- the one thing that I still find that investors ask all the time is is just kind of fundamentally why this category doesn't seem to be doing better? And back to Eric's question it was such a tremendously cold winter.
I know you're saying that the FDN data looked okay but the shipment data down.
It just feels hard to explain.
So talk about shelf space and then talk about just big picture about the category trends.
David we have not seen changes in shelf space for the Soup category.
And we watch this as you know very very closely.
I mean to-date since we started our fiscal year we've put in over 20 000 new upgraded iQ MAximizers across the retail landscape.
So we've been working very closely with retailers in the category on shelf space.
So it's competitive out there and it's one thing we continue to watch.
But to-date we haven't seen any movement in that.
And in all the dollar stores when they're expanding their footprint at the expense of the traditional retailers there's nothing negative with that fundamental change at retail.
Is that a true statement? We have a presence in those dollar stores and we're committed to getting our fair share of that presence.
So we have products that can plan that space.
And in the fullness of time we think that's a very manageable proposition.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
Can I ask about the beverage category? It seems as though it slowed down quite a bit in sales growth trends  this time.
In particular I think you had the tea version of V8 that was being moved.
How is the distribution trends on that? Is that going as expected? Or is there other dynamics in that beverage segment that are causing some challenges? I mean the beverage business has always been very competitive.
And we're very proud of the fact that V8 has been outperforming the shelf-stable juice category for quite sometime now.
I would say that we continue to invest in V8.
Splash and V-Fusion did very well this past quarter.
We were a little bit lower on V8 Red.
And I would just say that we continue to be very very optimistic about our ability to compete with beverages.
And for the half it's been solid.
When there is a significant pressure on food budget people we have observed are willing to trade out of the category and go to water and other more value-oriented items.
But on balance we feel very good about our presence here and our growth prospects.
Our volume full year-to-date on consumer takeaway is up 6.6%.
So we're really happy with that.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
Denise a couple of weeks ago I guess there were some pretty high level management shifts that were made at Campbell I think a new Head of Sales a new Head of U.S.
Soup and some others.
And even I know it's very early to sort of get your strategic outlook and plan.
I was wondering if perhaps you can share bit about maybe what skill set you were looking for in some of those key people maybe what objectives you had in mind when you were making those sort of what seem like pretty key personnel decisions going forward.
That organization shift had been planned for quite some time Andrew.
And what we're doing is we are setting up the North America Soup Sauce and Beverage unit to create better focus and to jump-start innovation and I'll talk more about this at CAGNY.
But those leadership changes and the structures were designed on purpose to do that.
And just to build on it as part of the what we call our ORP process we've been developing those two leaders for roles like these for the better part of six or seven years.
So this is a natural evolution of the thinking but tailored to address the issues of the day and issues that Denise has highlighted as being most critical to moving forward.
I mean I know that they come highly regarded both internally and externally and I guess from Pepperidge.
So I was trying to get a sense of just what is that -- I'm trying obviously to get a little bit more insight into where you're headed going forward obviously and how those folks add to that but we'll get more into that at CAGNY as well.
The good part about Campbell Andrew is that we do have some great bench strengths and these are great leaders that are coming into these positions.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I wanted to talk just a little bit more about your expectations for managing pricing back up in Soup.
It's just I guess a little bit hard to have full confidence given some of the recent trends there.
And I was wondering if you have similar plans and equal conviction in your ability to -- equal confidence in your ability to manage Condensed and Ready to Serve or do you view those categories or those segments as somewhat different from each other as you think about the next few quarters? I think there is an interaction with Condensed "eating" and some of the RTS brands.
And particularly with the price discounting that we had in the marketplace the value proposition of Condensed became less apparent to the consumer.
Going forward as we realize our pricing I believe that that will be restored and Condensed will have a much better second half.
Our next question comes from David Palmer from UBS.
Doug and Denise I think someone mentioned the positive response for the new ad campaign in the Q&amp;A.
Is there any details you could share about from a normal to consumer-level research perspective how are perceptions and/or behavior perhaps changing this year with regard to Soup? Are there certain demographic groups that are cutting back or coming back to Soup versus other categories? Any insights would be helpful.
We still consider it early days but the consumer response to the campaign has been really positive.
And we've had certain executions because this is a portfolio campaign and there's sub-branded advertising within it.
We've had certain executions that have performed better than others and we continue to learn and improve it.
But this is some of the best advertising we've had on air in our recent past so we're very very encouraged by that.
It is the first time that we've had an umbrella campaign across the entire line.
So we're pioneering new ground here for the company the first time in almost 20 years that we've done it this way.
So we have expected that it would take a little time.
The response in particular to the Anthem spots that Denise mentioned has been exceptionally good in research and then in qualitative tracking following the launch.
We've also had good response to some of our condensed cooking executions and our Chunky execution that we were concerned about because we were migrating from a brand building Chunky NFL perspective into this broader spot.
But our Chunky business has held up very well through all of this activity.
And our Healthy Request business has also been off the charts.
As it relates to the advertising.
So we have seen impact.
Where we've been pressured has been when we have tremendous price gap pressure that is changing the promotional the price points to a point where our condensed "eating" soups have been so pressured by Ready to Serve pricing.
But on balance we see it across the portfolio in a very positive way.
And we think that we can strengthen the execution on condensed "eating" and we're working on that right now.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Craig you called out input cost inflation in fiscal '12 and I'm wondering if you can quantify or give some quantification to what you're expecting for cost inflation.
Our math shows that you could be facing something like 6%.
Are we in the ballpark and then in relation to that sort of your ability to use prices to lever to offset that as opposed to maybe other levers that you can see in your P&amp;L to manage through that inflation? We don't have an F '12 forecasted.
We're a little early for that yet.
As we look at this year clearly the trend is up.
We're going to finish the first half sort of flattish on ingredient and package and energy input inflation.
And then in the second half we would expect something more like about 3%.
And as we look forward to '12 probably somewhat higher than 3% but I don't have a number for you.
So it clearly is in our thinking.
Pepperidge Farm has already taken some pricing action because some of the earlier pressure has been as you are well aware on grains and so impacting that business.
And we're very mindful of it as we look at our commercial policy around Soup in the back half of this year and coming into next year.
But it's a little early for us given our cycle and given our pricing cycle to be forecasting that.
And just in terms of broadly speaking any other levers that you feel that you may have kind of over the next six to 12 months  in your ability to manage it through that inflation? Well on the costs side I mean one of the things that's helping us mitigate the impact as we move into it is the combination of our hedging program and our contractual arrangements with certain suppliers.
I mean that's not -- those things don't offset long-term inflationary pressure but they do give you some time to react and to manage your pricing in the marketplace against what you see coming as inflation.
We also within cost of sales not directly impacting input from ingredients packaging and energy but within cost of sales we continue to have a really strong and successful enabler program.
We'll be at record levels I think again this year after having a strong year last year.
So we're attacking other pieces of the cost base.
We've talked publicly about a Soup common platform and some longer-range programs that we've got.
But ever year we're trying to fight back something like 3% or so of our total cost base with structural cost decreases.
So those are the things on the input side.
On the output side of course we've got within pricing we've got the opportunity to manage at the list price level as well as manage promotional depth and frequency.
Judy also I think it's still true at a very high level to think in terms of we believe we have the ability through pricing and productivity to manage our cost base.
And it's beyond just Soup.
It also applies to our other branded areas in Healthy Beverages and Baked Snacks where we have good brands we can price to manage between pricing and productivity.
Over time we've demonstrated the ability to manage costs.
We also have a very good discipline about our SG&amp;A management.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
This is Adam Josephson in for Akshay.
I realize consumer takeaway was good in the quarter but obviously the category continues to have its challenges.
I just have two questions.
Is it possible that some of the problems that the category is having are attributable to a generational shift and that younger people tend to eat less canned soup than their predecessors? Or is it possible that the trend toward healthier soups has been detrimental to the category because the soup doesn't taste as good as it did before? I'll turn it over to Denise in just a second and she's going to cover more on this when we get to CAGNY.
But what I would say is those areas create great opportunity for us.
And we believe we can do a better job particularly with millennials.
And we believe we can continue to drive on the health and wellness front to grow the category faster.
And we're going to cover that at CAGNY.
But Denise do you want him a top line? I would say the best way to answer it is Campbell Soup is in 85% of all households.
And we do have a very high index with millennials although it's not as high as baby boomers i.e.
that's the opportunity for us.
It's still pretty significant.
The other question that you asked was about health and wellness and our Healthy Request soup was actually our best performing line this year.
So we are hitting the mark on that accute need of heart health.
So that's probably the best way I'd answer it and I will provide more insight on that at CAGNY.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
I was listening to the tone on the call today more than anything.
And I got say it's awfully positive.
You've just lowered guidance for the back half of the year.
And I would argue that the Soup plan for this year did not -- the Soup did not go according to plan.
And I guess I'm just kind of wondering Denise as you think about strategic planning for fiscal '12 most people that I talk to think that there needs to be some kind of rebasing of margins or expectations.
And the tone is so positive it just doesn't seem like that's where you're headed right now and maybe the rebasing today is all that's necessary.
And that's fine.
But I'm just kind of -- the performance to-date just hasn't really been very good.
And I'm not quite sure how I can kind of get on board that things are going to get quickly better? First of all I'm going to acknowledge what you said and that is that we believe we can do better in the Soup business.
And that our performance as a result of the heavy price discounting that we engaged in did not give us the lifts that we had expected.
And the volume gains that we had realized were not sufficient to drive profitable net sales.
So I agree with you there and I'm not happy about that.
However you know that I have a new team and we are really focused on creating value over the long term.
And we have an opportunity here to explore all of our options for doing so.
So it's unclear at this point whether a rebase would be the right step for Campbell.
But that said we believe at this point that we have enough resources right now that we could just reallocate to fund our growth including trade spending and some of the dollars that we had appropriated for sodium reduction in R&amp;D.
So this new team is looking with fresh eyes at everything.
Just to build on it for context we've grown EPS every year for nine years.
We've grown EPS 10% over the last five years.
We have a flattish performance in a very tough year and we know what we need to do better.
We're focused on it.
We have spending as a percent of sales at record high level.
So we have some resources there and we've just got to find a way to manage things smartly.
And then I would emphasize that every year we go through a strategic planning process with our board where we look at all of our options.
Denise and her new team are doing that right now.
And I think she'll be in a position with a much more informed and complete look to cover that when she gets to our July Analyst Meeting.
So I think in the meantime we have plenty to do and we're on it.
So I think this is just a natural evolution of the business and we've got to work through it.
But three of our four segments are growing earnings.
We have an issue here in the U.S.
and we're on it.
I don't think Soup is the next buggy whip.
You've done a lot for the category over the years Doug.
I think that the category can grow.
Rob I do too but we can and will do better.
We can do better.
We can.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Just a quick question on costs.
Craig if we look at G&amp;A or cost control in G&amp;A I guess in the back half of the year how much is there a benefit running through your G&amp;A line for lower compensation expenses? Well we've seen lower compensation expenses in the first half.
And I think you would see that continue as a trend into the second half.
There are also some -- if you'll recall in the second half last year we also had a recall on SpaghettiOs which is another item that will help us in terms of comparisons second half versus first half.
And can you quantify like how much are you expecting lower compensation expense to benefit the full year? Most of the benefit frankly is coming from lower incentive compensation which would take -- if you look at the first half we're on the track that we think is appropriate for the full year.
So how much has it been for the first half then? We're not going to provide that level of detail.
Well then if we're modeling the second half should we factor in a higher compensation expense for next year? I'm just trying to get a sense for -- is G&amp;A going to be artificially or abnormally low this year because your missed your plan? And do we have to put that back in for next year? Some help on just how to think about that would be helpful.
So clearly as we look at next year we would anticipate higher incentive compensation.
But as Denise said we've got a very disciplined process against total G&amp;A.
And we would look to be realizing efficiency opportunities in other areas.
But just with respect to incentive compensation yes we'd look for a bigger year next year.
Our next question comes from Eric Serotta from Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> It seems that over the past couple of quarters your condensed cooking soups have been one of the bright spots in a clearly tough environment particularly for U.S.
Soup.
This quarter in the press release you commented that there were declines in both condensed cooking and "eating" varieties.
Wondering whether you think something's fundamentally changed there? What the drivers have been behind that decline? And what your outlook is for the cooking portfolio? Eric we're pretty happy with condensed cooking overall for the half.
And one of the biggest events we have is our holiday season.
And when we look at the total performance of this business throughout the holiday and some of those cases start shipping in October all the way through the end of the year we're pleased pretty pleased with the momentum in cooking soups.
And our broth of course has been stellar for both quarters.
So we know the trends here are good.
I mean consumers are cooking at home more.
We've invested very heavily in campbellkitchen.com which is providing recipes.
So we still are very excited about the Campbell cooking soup line.
Recognize too Eric that in the quarter the biggest divergence between positive consumer takeaway and shipment data was in the cooking soup category.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays Capital.
Just a quick question.
Can you talk about your plans to address the recent $700 million in debt that mature? I didn't catch the question.
Could you repeat that Priya? The $700 million in debt that came due I guess a few days ago.
Can you just address your plans as to whether you look to refinance that into new long-term paper or just pay it down? We did a $400 million issue last July which in effect pre-funded some of that.
We took advantage of the low rate environment.
We have plenty of room within our commercial paper program that as the $700 million matured and rolled off we rolled that balance into the commercial paper program.
But I think it would be fair to say that we are looking for opportunities to if you want to think about it this way to term out the rest of it.
I guess with that we are going to be closing our Q&amp;A session.
Thanks everyone for your participation in our second quarter earnings webcast.
As a reminder a replay will be available beginning in approximately two hours.
If you are a reporter and have some questions you would like to call Anthony Sanzio.
His phone number is (856) 968-4390.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
This concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Second (sic) [Third] Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Now as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you Mary.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Campbell Soup Company.
It is our third quarter earnings call and webcast.
With me here in Camden today are Doug Conant our President and Chief Executive Officer; Denise Morrison Chief Operating Officer; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro our Senior Vice President of Finance.
Doug will kick us off and then Denise will provide her perspective on the quarter followed by our financial performance and our outlook from Craig.
Following their remarks we'll take questions from analysts and investors.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our presentation.
You will find our slides posted on the website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that our call is open to members of the investment community.
Media are listening to the call in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes certain forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which inherently are subject to risks.
Please refer to Slide 3 in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
Our presentation also includes certain non-GAAP measures as provided by SEC rules.
In an appendix to the slides we've provided a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
All of our slides and our earnings release and selected quarterly financial data can be found on our website.
Last we'd like to remind you that we are hosting our annual Analyst Day on Tuesday July 12.
At the event Denise Morrison will share her strategic framework for the company with you.
We'll also feature presentations by several other senior members of our leadership team.
We'll end with Q&amp;A and naturally feature many Campbell products including several new products at our luncheon.
We hope you'll join us either via webcast or better yet live at World Headquarters in Camden New Jersey.
And with that I give you our President and CEO Doug Conant.
Good morning everyone and thank you Jennifer.
We reported today that sales and EBIT rose modestly and earnings per share increased nicely in the third quarter.
As you know I'm stepping down as CEO of Campbell Soup Company at the end of July which makes this my lucky 42nd earnings call while I've been a Campbell CEO and it will be my last one with you.
From my vantage point Denise Morrison has her arms around the challenges in our U.S.
Soup business and her leadership team is coming together quite nicely.
Things are shaping up for a richer conversation with you at our Analyst Day in July.
As I've said before it's not about the quarters or months it's about the years and I don't say that just because we're in a seasonal business.
As you know while quarters are important I believe it's over the years that shareholder value is created one product one customer and one consumer at a time.
It's best done by simultaneously creating a winning environment in the workplace leveraging your workplace success to create a winning financial profile in the marketplace over time winning in the community by helping to build a better world and winning with integrity in everything you do.
As I look back while I'm sure we could have done better I'm proud of all we've accomplished as a company in all of those fronts over the last 10 years.
And I'm very excited about what will accomplish in the future under Denise's leadership.
Perhaps the importance of understanding long-term trends is why the food industry is intrinsically different at its core.
In my opinion the food industry is special in terms of the continuity of the players the collaboration of the people and the long-term perspective which is often easy to lose sight of with the day-to-day vagaries of the market.
I've always viewed our shareholder base and our analyst coverage as an asset to the company.
So on this my lucky 42nd call let me thank you warmly and sincerely for your support your candor your insights and your friendship over the last decade.
With that I'll turn it over to Denise.
Good morning.
Thank you Doug.
It's been an amazing 10 years and everyone at Campbell is proud of what we've accomplished under your leadership in the workplace in the marketplace and in the community.
Now turning to the third quarter.
As I reflect on our performance I'm encouraged by our progress but I want to be perfectly clear I'm not satisfied.
We remain focused on creating long-term shareholder value by stabilizing sales and then driving profitable net sales growth.
We still have more to do.
Let me share 5 key takeaways with you.
First we are executing a different second-half plan in U.S.
Soup.
Our new management team has set in motion the plans we described to you in the second quarter.
We've sharpened our focus on profitable volume.
This quarter we began shifting our marketing investments to more brand-building initiatives such as our portfolio advertising campaign.
We've increased our soup advertising with GRPs up by double digits and we're highlighting the positive benefits of soup.
We've also increased price realization.
We've raised promoted prices and are in the process of implementing a list price increase in U.S.
Soup to offset cost inflation and we have innovations that are poised to ship in this summer.
As I said we're definitely not satisfied and clearly have more work ahead.
Second we are experiencing some softness in Beverages and Sauces.
In Beverages we're cycling a very strong quarter a year ago when sales rose 13%.
In the third quarter of this year we experienced increased competitive activity.
That said our year-to-date performance in Beverages still outpaced the shelf stable juice category and our innovation pipeline is robust.
Sauces also continue to face strong competitive activity.
We have plans to address this and further differentiate our higher-margin sauce brands going forward.
Third our performance in Baking and Snacking and Foodservice is strong.
We have powerful brands in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's that continued to perform well.
We're shipping some great new products including Milano Melts Goldfish sandwich thins and new varieties of Tim Tams.
In North America Foodservice overall industry trends are improving.
We strengthened our sales effectiveness with our customers and improved our profitability.
Fourth we're focused on cost management to offset inflation and help fund our growth.
We continue to focus on reducing our indirect spending SG&amp;A and total delivered costs.
Soup Common platform our program to simplify how we make soup in the U.S.
is progressing well.
This program and others like it will help fund our future growth.
Finally I want you all to know that we will not rest until Campbell is growing net sales profitably.
It's what I'm focused on every minute of every day.
On the strategy front our new leadership team is finalizing the plans that will position Campbell for future growth.
We're looking forward to sharing those plans with you at our Analyst Day on July 12.
Now I'll turn it over to Craig to take you through our financial results.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning.
I'll spend a few minutes walking through the third quarter results and segment highlights followed by our year-to-date results.
I'll conclude by briefly discussing our full year guidance.
For the quarter we reported net sales of $1.8 billion up 1% versus the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding the favorable impact of currency translation organic net sales declined by 2%.
As planned we reduced promotional spending in the third quarter compared to the first half the volume impact of which has negatively impacted the sales performance of our U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segment.
As Denise noted we achieved good sales growth in our Baking and Snacking segment.
EBIT increased by 1% in the quarter to $307 million primarily driven by lower marketing and selling expenses lower administrative expenses and favorable currency partly offset by a decline in gross margin percentage and lower organic sales.
EPS was $0.57 in the quarter up 6% as compared with adjusted EPS in the third quarter of 2010.
On Chart 11 you'll see the components of net sales as reported.
The detail of organic sales does not add to the total due to rounding.
Currency translation added 2 points of growth as the Australian dollar Canadian dollar and euro have all strengthened.
Our promotional spending was comparable to a year ago.
You may recall that this was a negative factor for sales in the first half.
And with our efforts to raise promoted price points in the quarter it is no longer having a negative impact on our sales performance versus prior year.
Due to cost inflation and higher plant costs net of productivity improvements in the quarter our gross margin percentage declined from 41.2% to 40.4% a decrease of 80 basis points.
Marketing and selling expense declined from $252 million to $243 million this quarter reflecting lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses and lower selling expenses benefiting from our cost-savings initiatives partly offset by an increase due to currency.
Advertising expense was higher for U.S.
Soup and flat for the total company.
As a result of lower incentive compensation costs administrative expenses declined 5% to $148 million.
As I noted earlier EBIT gained 1% in the quarter.
Below the line interest expense fell by 11% a decrease of $3 million as we've refinanced maturing long-term debt with significantly lower coupons.
The tax rate increased 1.4 points to 34.3% reflecting taxes associated with a higher level of cash repatriations compared to prior year.
With lower interest costs offsetting the impact of a higher tax rate net earnings similar to EBIT increased 1% in the quarter.
Average shares outstanding decreased 6% in the quarter due to the continued impact of our strategic share repurchase program.
As a result the 1% increase in net earnings yielded a 6% increase in earnings per share.
In our segment results for the quarter U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages sales declined 8% reflecting lower sales across the portfolio.
U.S.
Soup sales fell 7%.
Sales volumes were negatively impacted as we increased promoted price points to strengthen margins.
Sales particularly of RTS soups were also negatively impacted by movements in customer inventories.
Sales of both Prego and Pace were below year-ago levels.
Private label distribution gains in the Mexican sauce category continued to have a negative impact on Pace sales.
U.S.
Beverage sales declined 9% compared to a very strong year-ago period in which as Denise pointed out sales grew by 13%.
Reduced advertising and increased competitive activity negatively impacted the business.
Sales of both V8 vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion declined while sales of V8 Splash increased.
Operating earnings declined 10% to $193 million this quarter from $214 million a year ago.
The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to lower sales volume cost inflation and higher plant costs partly offset by productivity improvements and lower selling and marketing expenses.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter declined by 7%.
Condensed soup sales were down 2% as softness in eating varieties was partly offset by strength in cooking varieties which performed well through the recent holiday season.
Sales of ready-to-serve soups declined 15% while broth decreased 2%.
In Baking and Snacking organic sales increased 5% reflecting gains in Pepperidge Farm and at Arnott's where we achieved significant volume growth.
In Pepperidge Farm sales increased due to gains in Goldfish snack crackers Milano cookies whole grain and swirl breads and frozen products which benefited from the launch of Artisan Stone Baked rolls.
Sales of Arnott's increased due to gains in savory crackers led by Shapes Cruskits and Vita-Weat as well as growth in Tim Tam chocolate biscuits and in Tiny Teddy sweet varieties.
Earnings increased 8% due to the impact of currency and solid earnings growth at Pepperidge Farm.
Organic sales in our International Soup Sauces and Beverages segment increased 1% as sales growth in the Asia Pacific region primarily Australia was partly offset by lower sales in Canada which were negatively impacted by higher promotional spending.
Operating earnings increased 11% in the quarter primarily due to the impact of currency and gains in the Asia Pacific region partly offset by declines in Canada.
In our North America Foodservice segment organic sales increased by 4% reflecting volume gains in refrigerated soup and the overall improvement in the U.S.
foodservice sector.
Earnings in the quarter increased $13 million driven by lower administrative and selling expenses reflective of our cost-reduction efforts lower promotional spending and productivity savings.
Looking at our first 9 months result on Slide 19 reported net sales were 1% lower.
Organic net sales were down 2% driven by promotional discounting primarily in the first half in our U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segment.
EBIT of $1.1 billion was down 5% versus a year ago primarily due to the decline in gross margin percentage and lower organic sales partly offset by lower marketing and selling expenses and the favorable impact of currency.
EPS declined by 1% to $2.11.
For perspective it's important to note that we're lapping a very strong 9 months a year ago in which adjusted EPS increased by 13%.
For the first 9 months of the year our reported net sales declined 1%.
As you can see on Chart 20 our increased promotional spending drove a 2-point decline in sales accounting for the overall decline in organic sales as volume mix and pricing were comparable to a year ago.
The 2-point decline in organic sales was partly offset by a one-point gain from currency translation as the U.S.
dollar has weakened.
Our gross margin percentage for the 9 months declined from 41.2% to 40.3% year-to-date.
The 90 basis point decrease was primarily due to cost inflation and higher plant costs and increased promotional spending partly offset by productivity improvements and favorable mix.
While we have benefited from our procurement contracts and commodity hedges we are beginning to see higher rates of inflation particularly in grain-based commodities packaging and other ingredients.
We've taken pricing actions in our Baking and Snacking businesses and we have announced a list price increase in the U.S.
Soup effective June 17.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased from $837 million to $811 million primarily due to lower selling expense.
We continue to benefit from our cost-savings initiatives implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year.
Administrative expenses increased from $438 million in the first 9 months of 2010 to $442 million this year.
This increase was primarily due to the higher benefit costs including pensions and health care also information systems-related expenses costs associated with our new headquarters facility and an increase due to currency partly offset by lower compensation expense.
Below the operating line net interest expense increased 6% or $5 million to $85 million driven by a higher percentage of long-term debt in the portfolio.
The tax rate at 31.3% was down 20 points as compared to the prior year period.
For the first 9 months net earnings declined 6% and benefited from a 4% reduction in diluted shares outstanding.
Thus EPS declined 1% to $2.11.
In segment results for the first 9 months U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages sales declined 5% reflecting a 5% decline in U.S.
Soup sales and lower sales of Sauces.
Within Soup condensed sales declined 3% reflecting weakness in our condensed eating varieties.
Sales of ready-to-serve soups declined by 10% and broth sales increased 1%.
Beverage sales were comparable to a year ago as increases in V8 Splash and V8 V-Fusion were offset by lower sales of V8 vegetable juice.
Sauce sales declined for the first 9 months reflecting lower sales in Pace Mexican sauce and Prego pasta sauces.
Both have been negatively impacted by increased competitive activity.
Operating earnings declined 12% to $708 million.
The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to increased promotional spending cost inflation and lower sales volume partly offset by productivity savings.
Category performance in the United States during the latest 52 weeks based on IRI panel data and Campbell internal estimates are shown on Slide 24.
The overall category declined in dollars by 3% in the past 52 weeks.
Our Soup sales in dollars declined 4.9% underperforming the category.
Heavy promotional activity did not generate the expected volume lifts.
All other branded players in private label were relatively flat showing growth of 0.3% each.
While it's not shown in the chart total volume in the Soup category was essentially steady with the prior year.
Campbell dollar share in wet soup for the past 52 weeks was 62.6 -- sorry 62.2% down 120 basis points.
Similar to the last quarter the decline in our dollar share came from ready-to-serve soup.
Of our share decline 2/3 went to other branded players while 1/3 went to private label.
For the first 9 months of 2011 Baking and Snacking organic sales increased 4% as both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's achieved volume gains.
Earnings increased 6% primarily due to the impact of currency and volume-driven growth at Pepperidge Farm partly offset by lower earnings at Arnott's and local currency.
We continue to be pleased with the results for our Baking and Snacking business which has benefited from high levels of innovation and compelling advertising.
Organic sales in our International Soup Sauces and Beverages segment decreased 1% primarily due to declines in Canada reflecting higher promotional spending and in Latin America partly offset by gains in the Asia Pacific region.
The sales increase in Asia Pacific was primarily due to volume-driven gains in Australia.
Segment operating earnings increased 4% primarily due to favorable currency and gains in Asia Pacific.
Organic sales of North American Foodservice declined 1% while earnings increased 27%.
The increase in earnings was primarily driven by productivity improvements in excess of cost inflation and lower administrative and selling expenses.
Cash flow from operations of $858 million was comparable to the prior year performance.
Within cash flow the impact of lower pension contributions in the current year was offset by higher working capital requirements.
Capital expenditures of $133 million were down from $177 million a year ago.
For the year we continue to forecast capital spending of approximately $275 million.
In the first 9 months we repurchased 20 million shares at a total cost of $696 million under our strategic share repurchase program authorized in June 2008 and our ongoing practice of buying back shares sufficient to offset those issued under incentive compensation plans.
Net debt was $2.7 billion an increase of $249 million.
As you saw in our news release this morning we project that we will be at the favorable end of our range of our full year guidance for sales EBIT and EPS.
Our guidance for fiscal 2011 includes a change in sales of between plus 1% and minus 1% adjusted EBIT to decline 3% to 5% and EPS to decline between 1% and 3% from an adjusted base of $2.47 in 2010.
Thank you.
At this time we'll conduct the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Mary can you start the queue? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just had a question for you Denise in relation to the Soup category with promotion.
You're pulling back on promotion in the category and your advertising was up as you mentioned in GRPs.
And of course the volume is still a little weak.
Is there still time for this advertising campaign to take effect? And has the reduction in promotion kind of gone as you expected or was there a little more negative volume response to that reduction in promotion? Chris we continue to be encouraged by the advertising and of course that is a longer-term build.
What we're experiencing at this point is the cycling of the heavy promotion discounting that we started this time or this quarter last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then can you just maybe also give a little color on the inventory adjustments in ready-to-serve? Was that unique to this quarter as of the comparison to the prior year? Or is it more about what happened within this quarter? Typically in this quarter at the close of soup season the inventory has followed its normal pattern this year.
However we're cycling the quarter last year where when we launched our heavy promotion discounting retailers actually increased their inventories to support that.
And so this quarter we are seeing consumption and shipments differences.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
So you had normal levels of inventory today or has that kind of worked through? Yes.
This year's pattern would have been more normal.
It was last year's pattern that was the aberration.
Correct.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Can I just ask how your thinking's evolved about the weakness in the Soup category over the last couple of years? I think about a year ago we were talking about price-based competition from other simple meals.
With your planned increase in list prices are you now thinking that the category has moved on and the consumer has moved on from that? Alexia the soup category is being shopped differently than in former years.
We definitely have evidence that stock-up trips are down.
However soup continues to be one of the most pervasive food items in the consumer's basket.
We just saw a recent report from IRI which talked about the number -- the top categories that build store traffic and soup is definitely in those top categories.
We've also not seen a difference in the amount of inventory of soup in a consumer's pantry but the way they're shopping it is differently and we're navigating that.
But we believe going forward the right thing to do here is to focus on brand-building and increasing usage of the product and that's what our marketing plans are designed to do going forward.
Inc.</strong> Great.
I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
It might be a little early to ask this question but I wanted to know about the strategic plans for growth internationally.
Some people I speak to were a little concerned that you might adopt a pretty aggressive acquisition strategy.
Can you talk a little bit about how you're viewing international? And is this kind of -- if you are making acquisitions is it more of a tack-on approach as opposed to needing to do something bigger? Rob we're looking at all of the key trends as I had mentioned at CAGNY.
And obviously the growth in international is an important trend to be addressed in the food industry and we hope to give more color on our plans going forward in July.
All right.
So it is too early to ask.
Another long-term question you mentioned private label growth in salsa also private label growth in soup.
Would you ever consider making an acquisition in the private label space? At this point we see ourselves as a branded company and have no plans to expand private label.
That said in a few instances we already are making private label for some of our customers.
Our next question comes from Terry Bivens from JPMorgan.
Denise if you look at the data it seems to show every time you guys raise prices above General Mills your market share gap widens out with them.
So my question is this have you received any indication that Mills is going to follow? Have you received any indication from retailers at this point that maybe Mills is going to garner some more shelf space as we go into the fall? Terry we really don't comment on other manufacturers' pricing.
I can tell you though that we have been in the marketplace discussing our increase with retailers and they have been very supportive.
We intend to market these brands with increased advertising and more innovation.
And so therefore we have to cover our cost of inflation.
Our next question comes from Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Let me circle back to Denise your last comment there about supporting the category with increased advertising.
I think you guys started talking about that the fourth quarter coming into this year.
And Denise you mentioned that GRPs are up in soup.
I'm trying to square that with the decline in marketing selling and consumer promotion expenses as a percentage of sales.
In the measured media data that we see it looks like it's not the most recent but through February measured media spend in the U.S.
for Campbell is down around 11%.
How do I square that? And do you guys feel that you're at the right threshold level that this is sustainable? Or do we need to see an increase to generate demand? There's a couple of things going on underneath those numbers.
First of all our working advertising in the quarter for U.S.
Soup was up 11% and our GRPs were up double digits.
And so we made a conscious effort to make sure as we increase our price realization on soup that we couple that with an increase in brand building which again is longer term.
And we are seeing encouraging signs from our advertising campaign which emphasizes the positive benefits of soup which we think is very important right now.
We have been very conscious about working on our costs for indirect spending.
And we literally this year have gone after our indirect spending in media and advertising costs with a vengeance and have realized a great deal of efficiency from that effort.
So you're seeing some of that reflected as well.
You're also seeing somewhat lower expenses on the consumer piece of advertising as we've had some sampling programs same time last year.
Right.
We have had lower advertising in the quarter on beverages.
However year-to-date our beverage advertising is up 10% and it will be about even with last year by year end.
That's helpful.
And one follow-up if I may.
Craig you mentioned in the comments about mix being a benefit for gross margin year-to-date.
And that surprised me given the soup trends because I always deemed that to be one of the highest gross margin pricing of portfolio.
Where's the mix benefit coming from? I think probably within soup we're seeing some mix benefit as condensed is outperforming ready-to-serve.
I think that's probably the primarily piece of that.
I'll pass it on.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron from RBC Capital.
LLC</strong> I was just hoping you could maybe give us a little bit of a feel for the magnitude of the price increases that are coming.
And also whether you expect that promotional spending will decline as a percent of sales as those price increases are put through.
Well we're not going to comment on the amount of price increase that we're taking.
The details have been announced to our customers.
But suffice it to say that we expect that that will cover our cost inflation and so far that has gone very smoothly.
LLC</strong> That's cost inflation net of productivity? Yes the formula is that we look for our productivity savings and price increase to cover our inflation.
LLC</strong> I'll jump back in the queue.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Denise I wanted to ask you about the use.
You mentioned usage of soup is down.
I wanted to know how confident you are about your findings about usage because you haven't really shared that much.
And then if you just look at the performance of the soup category and your soup sales over the last year and your comments that you weren't happy with them I mean I wanted to know what about your findings about the soup category and your response to it has been subpar.
Just for clarification all indications we have seen is that the pantry stock and the absolute levels of soup inventory in the consumer's home is about flat.
Where we have seen a change is the stock-up behavior.
So the way they're shopping is fundamentally different and that has affected the pattern of our shipments.
So I wanted to make sure that was clarified.
We believe though that with the altered behavior of consumers not stocking up is understandable because their household budgets have been challenged by increased fuel prices et cetera that for us it's healthier and it's more important for us to focus on driving the usage of both the category and our brands with a dominant share so that we increase our business that way.
And that's going to require a different marketing technique such as more advertising and more brand-building activities and more innovation.
So in terms of your response to these findings I mean what about your response has been below your satisfaction levels? Because clearly soup category and yourselves have not performed the way you would have liked.
Yes.
I attribute that dissatisfaction to the fact that the first half we engaged in the intense promotional spending and did not see the lifts because of the consumer's shopping behavior.
Therefore we're re-purposing our efforts towards more brand building and I won't rest until that gains traction.
Perfect.
I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from Jon Feeney from Janney Montgomery Scott.
I wanted to follow up specifically on one question that's about marketing and advertising.
I mean if you look over just this quarter a trend has continued I think that's been in place for the past few years and sort of reduced more efficient however you want to look at it marketing and selling expenses against a flattish top line.
Two parts to the question.
First do you think the decline and I'm talking over the past 3 or 4 years in relative marketing and selling costs has been a cause of the problems in the soup category given your huge share and how you have to make it compete with the other categories? And secondly what metrics do you sort of look at would you say trade-off? I mean do you measure these things over the ROI on advertising in the course of a year longer or a longer-term timeframe when you consider the ROI on current marketing investment? I'll take the last part of this first.
We do measure ROI with a lot of discipline on our advertising.
And quite frankly there has been a lot of new avenues to advertise with the advent of the digital age.
We are very disciplined about measuring ROI and quite frankly have made some spending changes even recently to go out of lower-ROI advertising vehicles and into our higher-ROI vehicles.
So that is well under way.
I think we had 2 things that challenged our sales over the past couple of years.
Number one is we spent more time and resources on renovation as opposed to innovation.
We are of course correcting on that front.
We do believe that our sodium reduction efforts were important so that we can start to talk about the positive benefits of the category.
But we now have sufficient scale out there that we can repurpose our resources to other types of innovation and we are doing so.
And then finally I think that the proportion of dollars we spent on promotion discounting was not in the right proportion to the amount of dollars we need to spend on advertising and so we're correcting that as well.
Jon this is Doug Conant.
I can't help myself here.
I'm really biting my lip.
I'm chomping to get in the action here.
Denise has made all the right points.
The way we also view our spending in terms of total marketing not just advertising and consumer and total marketing spending is very healthy.
As Denise indicated we got out of balance by leaning too much into trade and discounting.
We're repurposing that money over time but quite frankly in terms of total marketing our brands have never been more fully supported.
So the challenge for us is to get it balanced properly.
That's what Denise and her team are in the midst of doing.
But the good news is they have resources to work with here.
And so I think this is a manageable proposition not easy but manageable.
Okay.
It's very helpful.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Just I guess a follow-up on the discussion about the change in stock-up behavior.
I clearly understand that Soup is a category where there has been a lot -- where it's been traditionally a lot of volume has been sold on promotion.
But I guess what we've heard from some of your peers and also from retailers is it's more general it's a issue that's affecting consumption in general maybe not just specifically the Soup category.
So I guess my question is twofold.
One is soup more affected by this change in stock-up behavior than maybe some other categories? And then second as you're addressing that issue and I'm sure talking to your customers is there something more broadly that you're discussing in terms of addressing that issue that's really beyond just specific to the soup category? I believe that soup has been impacted by the changes in stocking behavior based on the fact that we are in over 85% of households with multiple cans in the pantry.
And what we're talking to our customers about are some new innovations that we'll be shipping in the fourth quarter and beyond that we believe will bring news to the category and increase the usage.
But Bryan I think your first point's exactly right.
The data would say that stock-up trips broadly are down.
So they're impacting us and because we tend to be a stock-up item they're impacting us significantly.
But they are impacting lots of other categories and it's even reflected through in the results of different channels the way the different channels react to stock-up behavior.
I was going to say I guess what I would ask is just are we at a point where your customers believe that the change in stock-up behavior is still a cyclical thing? It's a reaction to higher gas prices and the economy? Or is it a more fundamental shift that we can expect that to happen? We don't know how permanent it is.
But we've got to operate our business given the fact that that's the reality we're in right now.
And we've got 64% of people living paycheck to paycheck and 1 out of 6 on some form of assistance.
That's a large population.
So I believe that we need to continue to take that into consideration.
And would it be correct for me if I heard this right you feel like for soup at least you have inventories at home at correct levels? Like there's this re-basing or destocking at home has probably happened so you shift the consumption that at least you ought to be able to grow with consumption.
We believe with the brand building we will.
Okay that's great.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi.
A couple of questions here.
Just some details and I know I'm violating the rule but what was the list price increase in soup RTS condensed and broth? That's okay we won't answer that one so that one doesn't count.
All right.
Well let's tick them off fast then.
The question was it kind of goes back to what both Doug and Denise have been commenting on.
Advertising and consumer promotion expenses in F '10 were down 3%.
In F '09 they were down 2%.
For this year what's the number going to be? Is it positive negative flat? I don't think you said it on the call.
We're looking at how we can be helpful with that and we don't provide guidance for the year on spending.
But I think we can give you a directional perspective 4% for the quarter we'll look up the year-to-date.
So go to the next question we'll come back to you.
Give us one we can answer.
Great great.
Well hopefully this is the right one.
You've got a nice Soup business in Australia.
That business used to be #2.
It's now the #1 business there.
What I struggle with is understanding why that business has performed so much different than the U.S.
Soup business and perhaps there's another way for us on the outside to understand what's happened.
Can you contrast the 2 different markets and explain why Campbell's has done so well on a relative basis in Australian Soup versus U.S.
Soup? Yes as a matter of fact I just came back from a trip to Australia and had the privilege of seeing that team's plans.
They're at a different stage of development in the market than we are in the United States.
But that said I do think they have a great balance of advertising and innovation and out there at the right price value for the consumer and they've just done a great job.
Is their advertise significantly higher on a percentage basis than in the United States? No.
Not that I think of David.
David on marketing and selling we're now 4% for the quarter 3% year-to-date.
Good.
I appreciate that information.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler from Credit Agricole Securities.
I wanted to ask on the incentive comp down pretty big in the third quarter.
I think if I remember the first quarter it was up little bit.
Could you comment on your expectations for the full year? I'm really trying to think about what's the comp for next year if your plan works as you think it will Denise.
When you reinstate that plan what would the comparison be with this year? So Diane you're seeing an adjustment year-to-date adjustment in the quarter right? So it's distorting the quarter a little bit.
For the full year we would expect it to be about $0.04 favorable impact to this year.
And if you connect it to your other question that will be $0.04 that we'll have to cycle next year.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Denise I have one question but it has 14 parts.
Is that okay? That's very innovative Eric.
Well it's tough in the food industry being innovative but we try.
Okay I guess the question is just this it sounds like Denise that you're trying to maybe have a little bit more effective like co-promotion.
I mean Smucker does a great job with their portfolio seemingly linking the brands.
But I think to your point a lot of the brands across the Campbell's portfolio are well known.
But it just seems that for whatever reason the company hasn't been able to let's say link so effectively the Pepperidge Farm Goldfish with I don't know tomato soup or what have you.
So it is that kind of one kind of lever that you hope to pull? And I just have a quick follow-up.
We've had some co-promotions with Pepperidge Farm around holiday for example where we actually do a great job in terms of getting a complete solution out to the consumer.
We've also had some co-promotions with Chunky as Chunky soup for pour overs with different retailers or other branded rice or pasta.
I do think we can do more of that because when we have done it we've yielded really good results.
And so you can count on the fact that we will be doing more of that.
Okay.
And then I asked this question maybe last call.
And as I kind of dug a little deeper in terms of the industry it just seems to me that like this fixed cost absorption off of the tomato processing platform if Beverages and Sauces are down and even Soup is obviously down as well at what point is it kind of a fixed-cost absorption or a capacity utilization issue? Because obviously tomato has to be one of your biggest raw materials and you've just effectively used that historically and converted what would be kind of waste into extremely high-margin business.
So why shouldn't I worry about this more? Well Eric I mean your point's right.
As volumes drop and particularly as they drop across the whole portfolio and in the primary North American manufacturing estate it does put pressure on us.
But the good news is that we've been doing an awful lot of work at the same time in improving productivity and improving our enabler program some of which you're not seeing the full benefit of because it's offsetting the absorption pressure in the other direction.
We've talked some before about our soup common platform project which is directed at simplification and later stage differentiation that will ultimately take manufacturing costs out of the plant.
It will actually take capital costs out of the plant over time and it will diminish the impact a little bit.
But it won't make it go away.
I mean as volumes go down it does create an absorption issue.
Our next question comes from Robert Dickerson from Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> Just a few quick easy questions.
One I guess is just focused on the buyback.
Obviously you continued to buy back shares in Q3.
So for your full year guidance is there buyback -- is your buyback activity that's baked into your Q4 to get to your EPS for the year? Robert we don't normally give guidance on a buyback.
But the reality is that we've got a program that runs out at the end of the fiscal year and there's a very little bit of authorization left.
So I'll just leave you with those 2 facts.
LLC</strong> Okay cool.
I appreciate it.
I mean I just ask again because I think I asked the same question at Q2 and I got the same answer and obviously it drove a significant part of Q3.
And then the other question is just I think you stated before that your expectation for fiscal year '12 cost inflation was 3-plus percent on the ingredient side.
Does that still hold or has it gone up little bit? We just said that it was higher than this year.
We haven't given...
We haven't given any guidance for '12 yet.
Okay perfect.
I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from Vincent Andrews from Morgan Stanley.
I just wanted to ask are you seeing any variation in soup performance either across different the retail channels? Or maybe another way to think about would be in different geographies? Are there any sort of interesting variances there that might be helpful? Then Craig if I could just ask you if 31% for a tax rate for the fourth quarter sounds about right that would be great.
Well I think that there is definitely multiple-channel shopping going on.
And as I said before the stock-up trips are generally down across channels and we're seeing increases in fill in.
And we're seeing shopping increase in the first couple of weeks of a month based on when people get paid but I haven't seen any differences per se across channels.
There have been some movement to although this has been like this for a while to some of the discount channels.
On the tax question I think you should assume that this year's rate will be pretty close to last year's rate.
So closer to 29% from last year.
That was full year idea.
Fourth quarter's a little higher than 29% probably closer to your 32%.
Okay I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
I guess the follow-up to Eric Katzman's question is if volume declines are becoming more of an issue Craig and it sounds like they might be does that necessitate the need for something to really spike volume in the short term? Can you afford to keep kind of taking this what I think is actually a more rational approach of raising price and then hoping that volume stays stable? I'll take that one.
What we're doing here in our course correcting is we're going after profitable volume.
And so therefore the marketing programs we're putting out are designed to increase usage which will increase volume but it will be profitable volume.
So yes the way I think about it is that we do have an adjustment and you see us going through that adjustment.
And actually the cost dynamics are not so bad as I said because the efforts on cost savings have been more or less offsetting the absorption issue.
But make no mistake the long-term goal is to get back into volume growth.
And the good news is we're going to be lapping a period where we were more challenged there.
Right.
So you don't see the need.
You can keep to this rational strategy in the short term and it's not going to require some kind of a rebound in volume to make your numbers? No.
Right.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
Denise I'm just curious going into the meeting in July obviously our sense of expectations are very high just in terms of kind of getting a lot more of the answers if you will going forward and a lot more of the specifics around earnings goals margin targets specific sort of innovations and things.
I guess I'm just trying to get myself set around what sort of expectations are reasonable to have in terms of how many of the answers are we likely to hear about? And sort of what level of specificity would be helpful? Andrew we've been working on our strategy for several months now and it's pretty comprehensive and we intend to be pretty transparent about it.
We're very excited about the possibilities for this company and anxious to share as much of the specifics as we can at this point.
Okay and then as you shift as you said more going forward from renovation to innovation I guess do you feel -- as you've gone through that work over the last couple of months how shackled does the organization feel or not maybe by sort of a current plan configuration how unbelievably efficient you are in the manufacturing of soup and the way you do it are there things there that are just maybe too onerous to ultimately shift a little bit if you need to change the direction of where you need to go for the consumer in soup? Actually our organization has really rallied and is pretty energized by some of the things that are coming along.
Every business is going to need a certain amount of renovation to bring news to the base so there's still some intensity there.
But I think that I've seen people with a spring in their step around here as we reignite our creativity.
Okay so with that we are going to end our Q&amp;A session.
Our hour is upon us.
Thank you everyone for your participation on our third quarter earnings webcast.
As a reminder the replay will be available beginning in approximately 2 hours.
If you're a reporter and have questions please call my colleague Anthony Sanzio.
His number is (856) 968-4390.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
This concludes today's program and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you Mary.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Campbell Soup Co.'s fourth quarter earnings call and webcast.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Craig Owen Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance.
Today Denise will give an overview of our strategies and comment on our performance for the fourth quarter followed by a detailed discussion from Craig that also includes our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Following the wrap-up from Denise all of us will take questions from analysts and investors.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes certain forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which inherently are subject to risks.
Please refer to Slide 4 in our presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statement.
The results presented today have been adjusted for items impacting comparability including those that the company announced in June comprised of a series of initiatives to improve supply chain efficiency and to reduce overhead costs across the organization as well as the charges related to the decision to close the company's Moscow office and exit the Russian market.
As a result of these initiatives in the fourth quarter we recorded pretax restructuring costs of $63 million or $41 million after tax which equals about $0.12 per share.
Since our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we have provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying the presentation.
These slides as well as our earnings release and selected quarterly financial data can be found on the website.
We've also made a change in our reportable segments you can see it on Slide 6.
Consistent with our strategy and recent management changes effective this quarter we are reporting the businesses that formally constituted the U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segment as 2 separate reporting segments.
First is the U.S.
Simple Meals which includes our U.S.
Soup and Sauce portfolio; and the second is U.S.
Beverages.
We also now have geographic designations on all of our segments so Baking and Snacking becomes Global Baking and Snacking with no change to the elements that comprise it.
International Soup Sauces and Beverages becomes International Simple Meals and Beverages to match our U.S.
naming convention.
North America Foodservice doesn't change a name yet beginning with the fourth quarter of 2011 costs associated with restructuring activities are not included in segment results and this change affected Foodservice comparisons for the fiscal year.
All of our segments results for prior periods have been modified to conform to the current presentation.
Further information on historical beverages performances by quarter will be disclosed along with our first quarter earnings in November 22nd -- it's the 22nd.
We'll give you first through third quarters at the time.
And with that I'll turn it over to Denise Morrison.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us for Campbell's fourth quarter earnings conference call for fiscal 2011.
This is my first call as Campbell's CEO and it's an honor and a privilege for me to represent Campbell's here today.
I look forward to having an ongoing candid dialogue with all of you about our company our performance and our progress on the growth strategies we outlined in July at our Analyst Day.
In fiscal 2011 after a very weak first half our focus was on improving our bottom line performance in the back half while developing a strategic framework for Campbell's future growth.
I'll share my observations on our performance in a moment.
As I stated in our Analyst Day in July our primary goal is to create value by driving sustainable profitable net sales growth.
To achieve that goal we are pursuing 3 growth strategies.
First we will stabilize then profitably grow North America Soup and Simple Meals.
Second we will invest to expand our international presence.
And third we will continue to drive growth in healthy beverages and baked snacks.
We are confident in and committed to these new growth strategies.
We're heartened by the constructive feedback we've received from many of you regarding our plans yet we also recognize as you do that the key to success is our ability to execute these strategies.
We enter fiscal 2012 energized with a renewed focus on the consumer.
While the economies in our primary markets have generally improved since the lows of the economic crisis many consumers remained cautious.
The recovery has not progressed at the pace or intensity consumers had hoped for.
As a result consumers remain careful about their purchases and feel the need for resourcefulness and vigilance.
In this environment it is critical for us to deliver meaningful innovation focused on consumer needs and to differentiate our brands through effective marketing that emphasizes our products' tangible benefits and value relative to the competition.
Turning to our results.
I said earlier that one area of focus for the past few months was on improving our financial performance in the back half.
After an improvement in the third quarter this morning we reported that adjusted EBIT increased 24% in the fourth quarter to $232 million.
On a per share basis adjusted net earnings grew 30% to $0.43 a share in the current quarter.
Global Baking and Snacking which has been strong all year led the way in the fourth quarter.
This business which is an area targeted for accelerated growth in our strategy posted a strong quarterly gain in sales and operating earnings.
We have a solid track record of innovation in both Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm.
We intend to accelerate innovation with our investment in the new Pepperidge Farm Innovation Center which we will break ground on later this month.
Turning to U.S.
Simple Meals.
As you recall in the first half of fiscal 2011 our Simple Meals performance suffered.
These increases in promotional spending behind U.S.
Soup did not deliver the expected volume lift.
Mid-year we changed our marketing strategy and pulled back on heavy promotions.
As a result we began to improve the profitability of the Simple Meals business in the third quarter.
Subsequently we took a list price increase in U.S.
Soup due to inflationary pressures.
In the fourth quarter we continue to see further profit improvement in our Simple Meals business despite anticipated volume declines.
Emphasis on brand building combined with more consistent innovation is the right approach to stabilize and then profitably grow our Simple Meals business.
To that end customer reception to our new products in Simple Meals Slow Kettle soups Swanson flavor boost and new Prego and Wolfgang Puck sauces is positive and the sell-in is progressing as planned.
We also have begun the important longer-term process of reinvigorating our Simple Meals innovation pipeline.
As we told you we intend to rebalance our consumer marketing support in U.S.
Soup and are on track to stabilize and profitably grow the broader Simple Meals business over the long term.
Soup volumes and consumption were softer this quarter as we expected because price realization is coming through.
We have 2 more quarters ahead where we will be cycling the heavy discounting activity.
While we expect further volume declines we will be competitive and we believe elasticity will normalize over time.
As you've seen in our news release this morning we've broken out our U.S.
Beverages results.
This new reporting segment is aligned with our strategic framework and increased emphasis on accelerating growth in beverages.
It also provides a greater degree of granularity on our performance.
U.S.
beverage sales declined slightly against very strong prior-year performance while operating earnings declined amid significant cost inflation and discounting in a highly competitive environment.
Craig will comment further on our new beverages segment.
In July we provided updated guidance for the year.
We finished the year slightly better than that.
However we are by no means satisfied with where we are.
Changing our growth trajectory will take time as we fully implement the strategies we laid out for you in July.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Craig for his analysis of our financial results and an elaboration of our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Craig? Thanks Denise.
Good morning.
I'll spend the next few minutes stepping through our fourth quarter results and segment highlights followed by a recap of fiscal year results.
I'll conclude with a brief discussion of our fiscal 2012 guidance.
For the quarter we reported net sales of $1.6 billion a 6% increase versus the prior year.
Organic net sales increased by 1%.
Excluding items impacting comparability EBIT increased 24% in the quarter to $232 million.
Earnings per share was $0.43 this quarter up 30% compared with EPS in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The net sales increase of 6% reflected a 5-point increase due to the currency translation as the Australian dollar Canadian dollar and euro have all strengthened.
Excluding the favorable impact of currency organic net sales increased by 1%.
Pricing added 2 points reduced promotional spending added one point and volume and mix subtracted 2 points.
The price increase is primarily in our Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's businesses in reaction to a significant inflation in grain-based commodities.
The variance in promotional spending reflects our strategy to reduce promotional spending in U.S.
Soup in the back half of the year.
And as expected this has had a negative impact on volume.
Our gross margin declined by 60 basis points from 40.4% to 39.8%.
This decline was primarily due to cost inflation the rate of which increased in the quarter partly offset by productivity improvements higher selling prices and reduced promotional spending.
In the fourth quarter marketing and selling expenses decreased by 11% to $196 million compared to $221 million in the prior year primarily due to lower out-of-season advertising spending in U.S.
Soup; reductions in Australia to reallocate more spending to trade in a very competitive retailer environment; and lower spending in Russia given our decision to exit the market.
Administrative expenses increased $3 million to $170 million this quarter driven by the impact of currency.
Below the line interest expense was comparable to the prior year.
Tax rate increased 2.7 points to 32.5% reflecting taxes associated with a higher level of cash repatriations compared to the prior year.
Due to the impact of our ongoing share repurchase program diluted shares outstanding declined 5% in the quarter contributing the earnings per share growth of 30%.
In our segment results for the quarter organic sales within the Global Baking and Snacking segment increased 7% as both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's benefited from higher selling prices and strong volume gains.
And Pepperidge Farm sales increased primarily due to gains in Goldfish snack crackers while sales at Arnott's rose due to gains in savory crackers led by Shapes and the growth in Tim Tam chocolate biscuits.
U.S.
Simple Meals sales declined 8% reflecting lower sales for both U.S.
Soup and U.S Sauce.
U.S.
Soup sales fell 9% in the quarter.
Soup volume performance was weak impacted by our strategy in the second half to reduce promotional spending our list price action to help offset that inflation and also unfavorable movements in customer inventories compared to the year-ago quarter.
Sales of both Prego and Pace declined for the quarter.
The decrease in Prego sales reflects continued competitive merchandising and new items in the Italian sauce category.
The decline of Pace sales reflect share losses to private label.
Within the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment organic sales were comparable to prior year.
Gains in Europe and Canada were offset by declines in the Asia Pacific region and in Latin America.
U.S.
Beverage sales declined 1% versus prior year lasting strong growth of 12% in the prior year quarter.
Sales of V8 vegetable juice declined reflecting increased competitive activity while sales of V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash both increased.
The launch of new items including V8 Fusion V8 V-Fusion + Tea new flavor varieties and the 8-ounce slim cans contributed to V8 V-Fusion sales gains.
Organic sales of North American Foodservice increased by 8% primarily due to decreased promotional spending.
Operating earnings in the U.S.
Simple Meals segment increased 4% to $101 million this quarter.
The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to lower marketing and selling expenses and an increase in gross margin percentage reflecting our price realization efforts.
Earnings within Global Baking and Snacking increased 26% due to growth at Arnott's and the favorable impact of currency partly offset by a decline in Pepperidge Farm.
The mark-to-market impact of open commodity hedges had a negative impact on Pepperidge Farm earnings in the quarter.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages declined 29% versus very strong results a year ago.
The decline was due to significant cost inflation and increased promotional spending partly offset by productivity improvements.
We experienced significant inflation in fruit and vegetable concentrates as well as packaging materials.
This quarter we saw strong earnings growth within our International Simple Meals and Beverages segment and in North American Foodservice.
In the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment operating earnings increased by 300% primarily due to gains in Canada reduced spending in Russia and the favorable impact to currency.
Operating earnings within North American Foodservice increased by $13 million primarily driven by reduced promotional spending and productivity improvements.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter declined 9%.
Within Soup condensed sales decreased 10% with declines in both eating and cooking varieties.
Ready-to-serve was down 5% reflecting declines in Select Harvest canned soups and in microwaveable varieties.
Broth sales fell 11%.
Soup sales especially condensed varieties were negatively impacted by unfavorable movements in customer inventory levels.
As I mentioned earlier our reduced trade spending and list price actions are also pressuring volumes.
For the full year now.
Reported net sales increased 1%.
Organic net sales were down 1%.
On a segment basis the organic sales decline is primarily due to the decline in U.S.
Simple Meals partly offset by growth in Global Baking and Snacking.
Excluding items impacting comparability in both periods EBIT of $1.3 billion was down 1% versus a year ago.
This decrease was primarily due to the decline in gross margin percentage and lower sales volume partly offset by lower marketing expenses and favorable currency.
Earnings per share for the year increased 3% to $2.54 benefiting from fewer outstanding shares.
For the fiscal year our reported net sales increased 1% and included a gain from currency translation of 2 points.
Excluding the impact of currency organic sales were down by 1%.
As you can see on Chart 27 the negative impact of our increased promotional spending and our decrease in sales volume was only partly offset by higher selling prices.
For the full year our gross margin percentage declined from 41% to 40.2% an 80 basis point reduction that was primarily due to cost inflation of approximately 2% and higher plant costs and increased promotional spending partly offset by productivity improvements and higher selling prices.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased reflecting lower advertising and lower selling expenses partly offset by the impact of currency.
Administrative expense increased $7 million primarily due to the impact of currency.
Excluding the currency impact higher pension and benefit cost and costs associated with the new headquarters facility were offset by cost savings and lower incentive compensation costs.
Below the operating line net interest expense increased 5% to $111 million for the year reflecting a higher percentage of long-term debt in the portfolio and a slightly higher average net debt balance.
The tax rate at 31.5% was comparable to the year-ago rate.
For the fiscal year net earnings declined 2% and benefiting from a 4% reduction in diluted shares outstanding EPS increased 3% to $2.54 versus $2.47 per share in 2010.
In segment results for the full year the most significant movements were in U.S.
Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking.
U.S.
Simple Meals sales declined 6% reflecting a 6% decrease in U.S.
Soup sales as well as lower sales of Prego pasta sauce and Pace Mexican sauce both of which had been negatively impacted by increased competitive activity.
Sales for Global Baking and Snacking increased 4% versus prior year as both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's achieved volume gains and also benefited from higher selling prices.
In U.S.
Simple Meals operating earnings declined 11% to $657 million.
The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to lower sales and a reduced gross margin percentage partly offset by lower marketing and selling expenses.
Global Baking and Snacking operating earnings increased by 10% primarily due to the impact of currency and volume-driven gains at both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
Within the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment operating earnings increased by 15% primarily driven by growth in the Asia Pacific region the impact of currency and the benefit of reduced investment spending in Russia.
Operating earnings of U.S.
Beverages declined 12% due to the increased promotional spending.
North American Foodservice operating earnings increased 49% driven by reduced promotional spending productivity improvements in excess of inflation and lower administrative expenses.
U.S.
Soup sales for the fiscal year fell by 6%.
Within Soup condensed sales declined 4% ready-to-Serve soup decreased 9% and broth sales decreased 5%.
Category performance in the United States during the last 52 weeks based on IRI Panel Data and Campbell internal estimates as shown on Slide 33.
The overall U.S.
wet soup category declined in dollars by 1.6% in the last 52 weeks.
Our soup sales in dollars declined 4.2% underperforming the category.
Our soup sales performance this year reflected our heavy promotions in the first half which did not generate the expected lifts followed by a rebalancing of the marketing mix and a list price increase in the back half.
All other branded players saw an increase in U.S.
Soup sales of 3.4% this year while private label soup sales grew by 2.6%.
While it's not shown on the chart total volume in the soup category was essentially steady with prior year.
Campbell's dollar share at wet soup for the past 52 weeks was 61.8% down 170 basis points.
Our market share for condensed soup and broth was essentially unchanged.
As has been the trend the decline in our soup dollar share came from ready-to-serve soup.
Of our share decline 2/3 was picked up by other branded players while 1/3 moved to private label reflecting the relative size of these players in the market.
Higher price realization in the second half contributed to our market share losses but as Denise said this move in conjunction with our efforts and innovation in brand building is an important part of the transition to a more profitable growth in our U.S.
Soup and Simple Meal business.
Cash flow from operations increased by $85 million to $1.1 billion.
Cash flow benefited from lower pension contributions and higher cash earnings.
Working capital requirements were also higher.
Capital expenditures of $272 million were down from $315 million a year ago.
Looking ahead we forecast capital spending in fiscal 2012 of approximately $325 million.
For the year we repurchased 21 million shares at a cost of $728 million.
We completed our strategic share repurchase program announced in June 2008 authorizing repurchases of $1.2 billion over the 3-year period.
In June 2011 we announced that the board of directors authorized a new share repurchase program with no expiration date to purchase up to $1 billion of our outstanding shares.
Net debt was $2.6 billion an increase of $74 million.
With respect to 2012 guidance there is no change to our fiscal 2012 expectations on an absolute dollar basis.
However given that we finished fiscal 2011 slightly ahead of the guidance we provided in July we have adjusted our 2012 growth rates to reflect this and to maintain our commitment to support brand building and innovation in 2012.
In fiscal 2012 we expect net sales growth to be between 0% and 2% with the assumption that currency will not have a significant impact.
We expect a decline in adjusted EBIT of between 9% and 7% negative which includes an incremental investment of $100 million in innovation and brand building input cost inflation up between 8% and 10% a $60 million benefit from our recent restructuring program and a negative impact related to restoring incentive compensation to targeted levels.
Finally we expect a decline in adjusted earnings per share of between 7% and 5% with interest expense comparable to the prior year and a tax rate in the 32% to 33% range.
Thank you.
With that Denise will now conclude our presentation.
Thanks Craig.
Before taking your questions I want to make some closing remarks.
We improved our EBIT performance in the back half and began to make the transition in U.S.
Soup towards rebalanced marketing mix.
We continue to believe that improved innovation and brand building is the right thing to do for all of our businesses.
We're confident in our strategies and plans.
It's early and we're just beginning to implement these plans but the company is energized by the new course we've chartered.
We also recognize that changing our growth trajectory will take time and solid execution.
Fiscal 2012 will be a transition year as we work to create a different company at Campbell.
Our primary goal is to create value by driving sustainable profitable net sales growth and that is our focus going forward.
With that we'll open up the call to your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Terry Bivens from JPMorgan.
This is Jessica Schmidt on for Terry.
So we understand that there's not been a significant change to the overall soup category shelf space at Wal-Mart.
And our question is have you either gained or lost any portion of that shelf space at Wal-Mart or any other retailers? We don't really comment on particular situations with retailers so we...
I would say overall that our shelf space is about flat versus prior year in the total grocery and discount channel.
Right.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to ask you in relation to the guidance for next year just on the percentage rate being down a little more the percentage point less than we thought what is that driven by? Are you trying to do more in the form of marketing? Or I heard you say about $100 million increase to marketing I thought that was pretty consistent with what you said before.
So what is it that led the growth rate down a little bit more for next year? Chris the only thing that changed is the base year.
The base year was a little bit higher.
Part of that over-delivery was a little bit lower spend on marketing and we're just hanging on to the absolute guidance if you will.
I know we gave it in percentages but if you look at the absolute numbers we'd come back to what we said in July.
We just thought it was really important to maintain the integrity of that spending plan as we make 2012 a year of investment.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to ask about in ready-to-serve soup first of all you've got a new product launch with Slow Kettle.
Is a lot of that baked in -- is a lot of those shipments in this quarter? No.
No most of the shipments will happen in the first quarter.
It just started shipping.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
I think in your recent meeting in Camden you talked about being able to hope to hold gross margins roughly flat year-over-year given some of the incremental pricing to help with the productivity for the inflation rates.
Is that still generally what you're thinking about? Yes.
Okay.
And then just on the way we should think about earnings that sort of -- the trajectory if you will through the year obviously the EPS sort of results last year in your fiscal first half were lower year-over-year.
So those comps a bit easier but I know you'd be ramping up spending I would assume in the first half as well.
But I'm just trying to get a sense of how some of things play out and if there's any dramatic difference in the way earnings flow throughout the year even if it's just directional.
Yes.
Well Andrew we don't give quarterly guidance and we intend to start spending against the $100 million investment starting in quarter one.
But the pacing will of course vary by business.
That said we're not expecting the first half to be easy.
We've had a list price increase and competitors have delayed following suit.
So we expect that competitive pressures will continue.
So we have to watch this very carefully.
Our next question comes from Judy Hong from Goldman Sachs.
Denise just on the competitive environment heading into the soup season you've talked about the competitors slowing -- slow to reacting to pricing actions.
But just in terms of some of the promotional activity that you're expecting from your competitors in the soup season going forward and then how that could potentially affect some of the merchandise and support that you could be getting that relates to some of your innovation and your product launches? We have not seen our branded competition move up base price in the marketplace.
And we believe that with the latest round of pricing we have the opportunity to offer the best price value across the category while still covering our inflation in our marketing investments.
Our intention is to be competitive.
And I don't know if you have anything to add to that Craig? No I think -- I don't want to get into the business of trying to project what the competitor's going to do.
As Denise says we're going to be competitive.
We're going to manage our way through the year.
But directionally and strategically what we've done in the second half is the way that we're going to approach the business coming into 2012 which is with more emphasis on brand building and less emphasis on trade discount.
Yes.
I think it's important to recognize that even though we're pulling back a little bit on trade we are still spending a significant amount of funds on both promotional spending as well as advertising.
Absolutely.
But we're applying a whole new level of discipline to that spending.
Okay.
And then Craig is there a way to quantify in the fourth quarter how much the Russian closure lowered your marketing and selling expenses? Russia was worth about $0.01 in terms of savings from the closures and reduction in marketing spend.
Our next question comes from David Palmer from UBS.
Just a question on that competitive pricing and price gaps.
I'm sure you look at the effective price gaps for soup categories in detail and not just versus private label for the condensed category but maybe even versus ready-to-serve soup which has become more promotional.
And maybe effectively their prices have been coming down to condensed.
Do you feel comfortable with the price gaps where they are today? Do you think that that is a problem for condensed or is that more or less where you think is a sustainable gap? Actually with the price discounting we did last year on ready-to-serve soup David we actually saw a compression in the retail prices of ready-to-serve and condensed.
So we believe that by focusing on the pricing and promotion strategy we have going forward with the discipline we're exercising the consumer will continue to see a good array of value from Campbell's with condensed and ready-to-serve soup.
And effectively you think that that price gap will widen a little bit this year with some of the pricing actions that are being taken? Is that the thought? It's early to tell.
The price realization is just coming through on shelf.
So we'll see where that ends up.
And basically you think that the price gap if there's any sort of price gap widening that might be helpful might be that those 2 categories versus some sort of private label problem for condensed? I think there'll be consumers that will continue to shop the category for price.
And then there'll be consumers that continue to shop the category for the benefits offered for the price paid.
And we intend through our marketing to communicate our value proposition to the consumer in a much bigger way.
We believe that's a healthier way to drive the usage of our brands.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> I actually want to ask about the Snack business.
You had a pretty good quarter there and that business has a fair amount of Australia exposure.
And we've just heard some pretty awful things recently about that market in particular.
I was just hoping you could maybe give us a little bit of context on what you're seeing over there.
The Australian market from an economic standpoint is starting to become more under pressure.
However we believe that with the size of the business we have over there in the categories that we play and the customer relationships that we have we'll continue to be responsive and continue the momentum that we've built in that marketplace.
We're very bullish on Australia.
LLC</strong> And then one follow-up if I could on the U.S.
Soup side.
You had an inventory drawdown at the retail level this quarter which I think is kind of the second fourth quarter in a row where you've talked about that.
As we think about kind of the first and second quarters of the year should we expect an add-back there? In other words should your shipment growth exceed your consumption growth in the first quarter for example just to replenish what you didn't get in the fourth quarter? It's actually a bit hard to predict Ed because heavy discounting was so severe last year that inventory didn't necessarily fall where consumption occurred.
And so we are watching that relationship very closely as we go into the season.
But suffice it to say that it was really the discounting we did last year that made the inventory situation course correct in the fourth quarter for us this year.
And just to add to that point because of the fourth quarter the small quarter for soup this small change in inventory does have a meaningful impact on fourth quarter volumes.
But when you look at the first and second quarters it won't be material.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
This is Adam Josephson in for Akshay.
At your Analyst Day Sean mentioned 3 factors that have negatively affected your soup business: fewer stock-up trips by heavy users sodium reductions and an overemphasis on promotions.
Obviously the latter 2 factors are within your control.
And you stated your intention to add back sodium to your soups and to focus more on branding.
But if stock-up trips remain low or even declined from where they are today given the state of the economy how would that affect your ability to return to growth in your soup business? I think that the fact that stock-up trips are down are not an excuse.
They're just a different dynamic that we have to deal with.
And the way we promote the product the fact that we're funneling more investment into advertising of the product to generate usage will work more with the consumer's pattern for buying.
We believe that's the right way to proceed at this point.
Okay and just one other one.
Sean also pointed out that over the past few decades the number of items in grocery stores has skyrocketed and the number of options available to consumers for lunch and dinner is much higher than it ever has been.
How does that situation change the way you approach marketing soup to the extent it does so at all? In other words do you market it differently than you did 5 10 years ago? And if so how? We're still in the throes of developing our advertising campaign for next year.
But I do believe that everything we do now will be in the lens of a broader competitive set within Simple Meals and recognizing that the consumer does make those choices and we want to compel them to choose Campbell.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi.
So 2 questions but they're just related to one another.
It's on the quarter and then on fiscal '12 guidance.
So on July 13 it seems that you had the guidance for $2 -- sorry you've exceeded the guidance by about $0.05 and that's all from the fourth quarter beat from lower marketing investments.
When you say that marketing is going to be up $100 million in fiscal '12 that's been on slightly lower base than what you were talking about on July 13.
So the first question is do I have this right? And then I think that translates on an adjusted EPS basis when I plug my numbers in the percentages that you've given guidance for '12 was about $0.02 better on both ends than it was on Analyst Day.
Is that -- Craig do I have these numbers right? Well first of all David the $100 million number that you have is not all going to appear in the selling and marketing line.
We talked about $100 million as incremental investment in innovation and marketing.
So some of it yes will appear in marketing some of it will appear in R&amp;D and some of it will actually appear in other SG&amp;A lines to support the infrastructure that we put in against innovation.
I think the best way to think about the guidance change is really that we over-delivered the quarter part of that was because we had lower marketing spend.
But we also delivered at the gross margin line a little bit more strongly in a couple of the divisions.
And as Denise said earlier we've just made sure that we've taken the approach that for 2012 we're going to hold the plan that we have in place which implies a little bit lower lift at EBIT and EPS on a percentage basis.
But it's the same plan.
Okay.
But sometimes the percentages get confusing.
The EPS numbers by my calculation are up $0.02 on the low end and high end for the 2012 number.
And then I suppose if that absolute calculation is correct I just -- since Analyst Day basically the economic situation in the U.S.
has worsened and it just gets interesting -- and maybe these are slightly minor numbers in the margin.
I mean if that's the answer that's fine.
I'm just curious that at this early juncture in the year you'd even make any changes to the absolute EPS guidance.
Yes I would have $0.01 instead of $0.02 but I think we're slicing it pretty thin here for a forecast for the full year when we're talking about the difference in $0.01.
And again the approach was not so much to agonize over the pennies as to just say were going to hold our plan for 2012 and how does that work out in terms of percentages.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow from Crédit Suisse.
I just had a question about the transition away from trade spending.
You said you're walking away from some unprofitable spending that you did in the first half of '11.
One of your competitors has actually made a lot of progress on their margins by reducing trade spending.
And I'm just wondering in your guidance here you're guiding margins down about 200 basis points despite shifting away from these unprofitable programs.
I'm just wondering if you could help me understand how that is maybe it's just inflation or being put in another bucket.
And maybe a follow-up.
We do have as we talked about in July Rob a pretty significant inflationary pressure in the numbers and then the assumption for next year.
I mean of course we haven't given guidance on the gross margin line per se.
So I think we also talked about in operating expenses that we've got a headwind related to the incentive pay that we hope to get back to pay out at targeted levels.
So I think there's some combination of maybe inflation above gross profit and SG&amp;A pressure related to benefit costs and incentive costs below the gross profit line.
I guess another way of asking it Craig is if those programs were really unprofitable programs would eliminating them provide any kind of a benefit in your margin outlook or you don't think of it that way? This is Anthony.
That would certainly be true for U.S.
Soup.
But you were talking about a fraction of the entire portfolio.
And as Craig mentioned earlier we do expect gross margins to be about flat in F12.
But it's not flat for each of the businesses underneath that.
And then just a quick follow-up.
You're switching to a brokerage sales model in some of your channels.
Can you give a little more specifics about where you're making those switches? And maybe Denise tell us how that's going so far? Yes we have shifted our retail coverage to a broker sales model.
And in doing so first of all we already had a fairly large portion of our business in the broker sales model so this is not a new relationship.
And what we did was add it on the retail store coverage.
Because what we found in our evaluation of our own direct retail force versus the broker is that they've made significant advances in technology and the ability to cover many more stores at a lower cost with quality.
And so we thought that this was a good time for us to advance that relationship and we're very excited about the early days.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Just a couple of follow-up questions.
Just the guidance Craig I guess in terms of -- just to be clear does not include any effect of foreign exchange on either the top line or the EPS line is that right? That's correct.
Okay.
And that's because you're just not going to forecast it at this point or at least for us? Or because there's some EPS or there is some FX benefit in the base year and -- I don't understand that.
Yes.
I hate to get in the business of forecasting foreign exchange for obvious reasons.
The planning assumption is that it should be approximately neutral to the current year.
Okay.
And just looking at it the way it helped last year it might help the first half but be a drag in the second half I guess that's a way of looking at it.
That's a reasonable -- yes that's a reasonable assumption.
Okay.
Okay and then just on the trade inventories to the extent that they were -- it was a little bit of a drag in the fourth quarter is it normal now? Is there anything unusual that we should be thinking about in terms of trade inventories in the first quarter or the first half? The unusual activity is all in the prior year.
That's true for this fourth quarter it would be to certain extent true as we cycle the first half of next year.
But I think Anthony made a good point earlier of the impact as a percentage of total sales is much more significant in the fourth quarter than it is in the heavier sales seasons in the first and second quarter.
In particular on U.S.
Soup and quarter 4 is the smallest quarter of the year.
Okay.
Okay and then finally I guess Denise at this point is it fair to say that you've sold in -- and this is probably more specific to your soup and sauces business.
But just you've gotten a new plan in terms of how you're approaching promotions and how you're approaching stimulating the consumer.
And basically you've sold those pricing plans with some volume expectation attached to them into the trade and so it's not so much going to be a matter -- we won't be surprised by what the trial of the trade reacts to it.
Now it's just really a matter of how the consumer reacts to it is that right? That's correct.
The sell-in of this new plan has gone well.
And again we continue to be competitive in the marketplace.
But the consumer will ultimately be the decision-maker in the first half.
And just when will we start to see more of the advertising or the -- I guess the pull begin to show up in the marketplace? I'm assuming it'll be like now.
Is that right? Yes.
The marketing actually will start a little bit later in the season to hit the high peak volume part of the season.
One of the reasons that you saw our marketing spend down so much in the fourth quarter is that we were cycling some fairly heavy out-of-season advertising last year.
And our analysis would say that that just didn't have very good payback.
So while we're lifting marketing spend for 2012 we're also concentrating it more to the season.
Okay.
So as we're watching and we're trying to make -- just kind of monitor progress and again I know it's very early.
Early on in this season you're going to have the effect of higher price but not all of the marketing the full effect of the marketing poll in the market yet.
So it might like look worse before it gets better.
Is that the right way to think about it? I think it will build steam as the half unfolds.
[Operator Instructions]  Our next question comes from Robert Dickerson from Consumer Edge.
LLC</strong> First question is just more strategic.
I know you went over a lot of your international growth plans at your Analyst Day in July.
But just in general I was curious we could see in the fourth quarter that sales or overall sales from your new global snacking business is obviously a higher percentage of your total company sales.
And if we just think that that category over the next 5 years should continue to outpace what we're seeing in soup and the second pillar of your 3-category or your 3-tier growth process is international growth could it be fair to assume that kind of over the longer term that growth internationally may assume some non-organic growth in global snacking? I mean would you potentially look to enter new markets to find that growth that we've seen out of a number of other snacking businesses? We've applied a lot of rigor to the international expansion plan.
And as I said in July we had identified some key markets.
And there is a very tailored approach to those markets depending upon what the market conditions are.
But we feel with the broader described categories of simple meals baked snacks and healthy beverages we have a lot to work with in terms of faster-growing categories and faster-growing markets.
External development is clearly a tool.
You've seen us use it in the China market and the joint venture with Swire and I think we're prepared to use it in other markets.
But the heart of the thing is the strategy and the targeting of markets and categories that we think offer good growth opportunity.
LLC</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then just a quick follow-up.
You commented earlier that over the longer term that you should see elasticity in soup start to normalize.
And I'm just curious is that also based on the assumption that overall soup consumption at least in the U.S.
should stabilize over the next year or 2? Yes that was the assumption that it would be U.S.-based.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays Capital.
Just a quick one on productivity.
Craig if you could just update us on -- of the incremental productivity that you expect this coming fiscal year.
I know a piece of it is obviously the $60 million from the restructuring and then you've got the ongoing piece that's incremental as well.
So you can just give us a sense of what that is and then if you expect it to flow through in the year in any disproportionate way or fairly evenly.
Well I guess I'll take it in 2 pieces.
One is at cost of sales where as you know we've had a pretty long-established target of trying to offset roughly 3% of cost pressure.
And while cost pressure's going to be somewhat higher than 3% this year we still believe that we should be able to deliver at around that level.
And that'll be driven by a pipeline of activity that we've got going in annual projects.
But also as we've talked about our soup common platform work to simplify the soup-making process will contribute to that number also this year.
Within expenses the force reduction -- some of the force reduction of course is relevant to cost of sales.
But the force reduction that we had particularly the piece that was relevant to the administrative and headquarters expense will be one of the factors as we are really beginning to try to pursue the same thinking in the management of expenses i.e.
in the planning period can we offset about 3% of normalized inflation to the expense categories.
And the negative headwind there would be the incentive cost and pension expense.
Got you.
Okay.
And then just I was curious is if you think about the logic of last year when you put out some of those trade promotions which as you mentioned were not particularly effective in driving volume I mean one could argue there was not a lot of elasticity to the upside from some of the trade spend.
Do you think the logic works the other way around or not? Meaning now that you pulled back on some of the less effective trade they wouldn't necessarily be negative to the downside.
We sure hope so but we don't know.
And so we've planned pretty realistically and we will watch that dynamic very carefully.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi.
Just make sure I understand the cost inflation guidance.
So on Analyst Day it was 3 to 3.50.
And I think you gave a percentage number of 8% to 10% on today's call.
Again if I'm doing my math right I think you're basically giving a little bit of an increase on the absolute dollar number of expected inflation.
Do I have that correct? So the 8% to 10% is input costs materials and packaging.
That's what we said in July and that's still about right.
That gives us a total cost inflation expectation before our enabler program of around 6 to 8.
And as I just said I think we can offset around 3 of that.
So our expectation for total inflation and cost of sales same as it was at the time that we talked in July 3% to 5%.
That would then suggest to me given the fact that we've seen crop prices rallying here since Analyst Day that you have most of fiscal '12 covered.
Is that a [indiscernible] statement? Yes I think the way to think about the crop price  decline -- actually rallying for us I guess not rallying for the market.
But anyway the commodity price decline has helped us de-risk that forecast a little bit.
We've had at the time that we were talking of course we had some forward buying done.
We've taken advantage of the decreases to do some more forward buying.
We're not completely covered for the year but we feel like we're getting closer to being more certain of those inflation projections.
From an input costs inflation perspective we are expecting increases in flour diesel edible oils and dairy.
Okay.
And I think Craig perhaps what I'm saying differently was that the softs have been up since then but petroleum and diesel are down since then so I understand your points.
Our last question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
I didn't know if you had disclosed earlier just how much foreign exchange contributed to your earnings EPS both for the fourth quarter and for fiscal '11.
Yes for the quarter it was about $0.03.
And for the year it's $0.05.
Okay.
And then just one follow-up.
I think I caught this at the beginning of the call but the restating the quarters in terms of the new segments we're going to have quarters for 2011 after you've reported -- when you report the first quarter? Is that ...
That's right.
When we report the first quarter we'll give you the full year of quarters for 2011.
Right.
Thanks everyone for your participation in our fourth quarter earnings webcast.
As a reminder a replay of the call will be available beginning in approximately 2 hours.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call Anthony Sanzio.
He can be reached at (856) 968-4390.
Investors and analysts should contact me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
This concludes today's program and you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to Campbell Soup Co.'s first quarter earnings call and webcast.
With me here today in New Jersey are Denise Morrison our President and Chief Executive Officer; Craig Owens Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance.
Denise will kick us off by giving an update on our progress with our 3 growth strategies and commenting on our performance during the quarter.
And Craig will offer a detailed discussion of the quarter as well as our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Following our formal remarks all of us will take questions from the audience and then at the end of the Q&amp;A Denise will come back to wrap it up.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Starting this quarter we'll be advancing the slides for you in order to enhance your experience.
Please keep in mind that our call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes certain forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which inherently are subject to risks.
Please refer to Slide 2 in the presentation or to the company's most recent form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
Since our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying the presentation.
These slides as well as our earnings release and selected quarterly financial data can be found on our website.
As a reminder we revised our reporting segments in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.
We separated the U.S.
Soup Sauces and Beverages segment into 2 segments U.S.
Simple Meals and U.S.
Beverages.
We provided historical quarterly information on our segments earlier this month in a Form 8-K.
And with that let me turn the call over to Denise.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us for Campbell's first quarter earnings conference call.
As Jennifer indicated I'll touch on our 3 growth strategies followed by my perspective on our first quarter financial results and segment performance.
Simply stated our goal is to create value by driving sustainable profitable net sales growth.
To achieve that goal we're pursuing 3 growth strategies: first we'll stabilize then profitably grow North America Soup and Simple Meals; second we'll expand our international presence; and third we'll continue to drive growth in healthy beverages and baked snacks.
Across Campbell the pace of activity has picked up and we're putting all of our energy into improving our performance.
Overall we're confident in our growth strategies and are keenly focused on execution.
We have the right people in the right positions and we set up a streamlined scorecard with clear metrics so everyone knows what's expected of them and we can keep track of our progress.
To be successful with our strategies we must connect with consumers and keep their needs front and center.
This past quarter as we began to implement our strategies consumers continued to be impacted by the challenges in the global economy.
In the United States and other markets where we compete higher prices drove an increase in consumer spending on food but the number of items purchased declined.
Consumers continue to shift channels in their search for value.
As a result club dollar and drug stores outperformed traditional grocery.
This little doubt that the pronounced caution and restraints that have characterized consumer behavior since the onset of the financial crisis are now the new norm for the food and beverage sector and we are proactively addressing it.
I'll now offer a brief perspective on our first quarter results which were reported this morning.
Sales declined 1% and EBIT declined 6%.
Earnings per share were steady with last year's first quarter.
While our overall first quarter performance was in line with our expectations the composition of our results was mixed.
In particular U.S.
Simple Meals Pepperidge Farm and North America Foodservice met or exceeded expectations while U.S.
Beverages and International did not.
Despite a different mix than we had expected we are reiterating our full-year guidance.
We recognize that we have more hard work ahead and we won't rest until we change the company's growth trajectory.
As we've said before fiscal 2012 will be a transition year for Campbell.
We're making significant investments in innovation and marketing to restore momentum to our top line in the years ahead.
Now let me speak briefly about our segment results starting with U.S.
Simple Meals.
I'll also highlight some of the challenges we're facing in Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Beverages.
We had solid profit growth in U.S.
Simple Meals despite the sales decline.
While it's early we're making progress with stabilizing the profitability of this business after which we can focus on driving sales growth.
As you may recall in the first half of last year we engaged in heavy promotional activity that did not produce sufficient volume lifts.
In the second half of last year we changed our marketing strategy for U.S.
Soup and pulled back on heavy promotions.
Subsequently we took a list price increase due to inflationary pressures.
In the first quarter of this year U.S.
Soup sales declines were not as pronounced as we had expected even as we cycled last year's heavy discounting.
This had a positive impact on the profitability of U.S.
Soup.
A portion of the profit increase came from reduced spending on advertising and consumer promotions.
While we do not provide quarterly guidance you may have expected increased spending.
In the quarter we started our U.S.
Soup advertising later in September to coincide with the actual start of the soup season when we get the best returns and to extend our media dollars across the full season which runs well into our third quarter.
Our first quarter TVG ERPs [ph] on soup were up due to better efficiencies.
We also started our consumer promotions later this quarter based on insights from last year when an earlier start did not deliver the desired returns.
This year we chose not to repeat non-TV and consumer programs from last year's first quarter that proved inefficient including certain couponing and sampling events for condensed soup.
At this point advertising for U.S.
Soup is in full swing.
We sure hope you've seen our TV campaign and are inspired to buy a few Campbell products this holiday season.
Going forward you can expect both advertising and consumer programs to increase.
In fact we expect both will be up when we review our full-year performance with you next September.
We're committed to emphasizing brand building activities for the long-term health of this business.
Innovation will also play a key role in stabilizing and profitably growing Simple Meals.
This quarter we launched 35 new products in Simple Meals versus 5 a year ago.
While it's too early to read consumer reaction we're on track to achieve our distribution and shelf space targets.
And we're executing our merchandising plans.
As you know last quarter we shifted our retail store coverage to a broker sales model through Acosta and added 5 000 stores.
We were able to get our new products on shelf more quickly and also expect our holiday program to be strong this year.
Because innovation is so critical to our plans we have ramped up our investment.
Our new breakthrough innovation teams have been moving quickly to develop more disruptive innovation for fiscal 2013 and beyond.
We're targeting both new users and new occasions.
As we have stated it will take some time to build a consumer-driven pipeline.
We'll discuss the progress we're making on our innovation strategies and share some of the new products with you at the same time we present them to customers.
Our efforts to stabilize U.S.
Soup profitability are on track.
However we have more work to do and we'll not be satisfied until we get the top line growing again.
Global Baking and Snacking which performed solidly through 2011 softened this quarter due to Arnott's.
A more cautious Australian consumer and the volume impact of higher prices at retail drove a profit decline for total Global Baking and Snacking.
On our fourth quarter call I mentioned that we had a strong quarter in Australia.
However the adverse trends that some of our peers have been highlighting have clearly impacted us in the first quarter.
Arnott's growth stalled this quarter as the consumer environment weakened consumers faced increased prices on shelf and the retail environment became more intensely competitive.
We are adjusting our plans and programs as Australian consumers increasingly reflect recessionary mindset which is impacting a broad range of categories and brands in Australian supermarkets.
Even in a difficult environment we continue to have several advantages in our corner including a leading market share exposure to expandable consumption categories a history of on-trend innovation that continues to delight consumers and strong brands.
On a lighter note I have to mention the fact that Tim Tam biscuits were one of the official gifts the Australian government gave to President Obama for his daughters for his recent trip to Australia.
Pepperidge Farm continues to perform well with solid sales increases which lifted the overall segment results.
Consumers responded well to our new products including cracker chips and Milano Melts.
To keep our new product pipeline strong this past quarter we broke ground on our new Pepperidge Farm Innovation Center which will open its doors in the first quarter of fiscal 2013.
Turning to U.S.
Beverages sales declined 3% and operating earnings were down 45%.
Needless to say that's a considerable decline and warrants explanation.
3 important factors were at play: we had significant inflation in juice concentrates and packaging costs.
The shelf-stable juice category declined and competition intensified with new entrants in vegetable juice and fruit vegetable blends.
Short term we believe we must maintain our competitiveness despite the inflation in this high potential space.
Over time we can increase our reliance on innovation and marketing.
On that front we launched V8 V-Fusion smoothies during the first quarter and have other innovations planned for later in the year.
And we just debuted our new advertising on October 15 featuring action star Jackie Chan.
Craig will fully comment on all of our segments including beverages in a few moments.
In September we provided updated earnings guidance for the fiscal year.
As I stated earlier we're reiterating the same guidance today.
We view fiscal 2012 as a year of transition and investment.
There's a lot of energy and a renewed sense of purpose at Campbell to improve our performance.
Changing our growth trajectory will take time as we fully implement our growth strategies to create a meaningfully different company.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Craig for his analysis of our financial results and an elaboration of our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Thanks Denise.
Good morning.
I'll spend a few minutes to discuss our first quarter results and segment highlights and follow with some comments on our full-year earnings guidance.
While our profit results for the quarter are consistent with our expectations the profile of the first quarter results is not indicative of our full-year plan.
We expect improved sales and gross margin trends as well as increased marketing spending in the balance of the year.
For the first quarter we reported net sales of $2.16 billion down 1% versus the first quarter of 2011.
Excluding the favorable impact of currency organic net sales declined by 2%.
EBIT of $416 million for the quarter was down 6% versus a year ago primarily due to significant cost inflation and lower volumes partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
On a segment basis improved profitability in U.S.
Simple Meals was more than offset by declines in U.S.
Beverages and Global Baking and Snacking.
Earnings per share were $0.82 for the quarter comparable to a year ago.
In the first quarter our recorded net sales declined by 1% as a 2-point decline in organic sales was partly offset by a 1-point gain from currency translation.
As you can see on the slide the decline in organic sales reflects a decrease in volume and mix of 5 points and the negative impact of increased promotional spending of 1 point partly offset by an increase in pricing of 4 points.
The impact of lower volumes was primarily in our U.S.
Simple Meals business.
The promotional spending variance is primarily due to increased spending across the U.S.
Beverage portfolio and the price increase is primarily in our U.S.
Soup and Pepperidge Farm businesses where it is helping to offset significant cost inflation.
As expected our volumes have been negatively impacted by our efforts to improve price realization.
Our gross margin declined from 41.2% in the first quarter of 2011 to 39.5% in the current quarter a decrease of 170 basis points.
This decline was primarily due to cost inflation and unfavorable mix partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
Overall our inflation rate and cost of goods was approximately 7% to 8% in the quarter which is consistent with our full-year expectation.
The weaker sales performance in our higher-margin U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Beverage business is contributing to the negative mix impact.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased by 6% to $261 million compared to $277 million in the prior year primarily due to lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses principally in the U.S.
Soup business partly offset by the impact of currency.
The increased effectiveness of the U.S.
Soup advertising commenced later in the quarter to coincide with the start of the soup season.
There were several key businesses in which we stepped up our marketing support.
Most notably we significantly increased the advertising support in our U.S.
Beverage and U.S.
Sauce businesses.
Administrative expenses increased by $5 million to $145 million this quarter primarily due to higher incentive compensation and benefit costs and the unfavorable impact of currency partially offset by the benefit of cost savings from previously-announced restructuring initiatives.
As I noted earlier EBIT declined by 6% in the first quarter.
On this slide we show the items below the EBIT line.
Net interest expense fell 7% a decrease of $2 million driven by lower rates on our long-term debt portfolio as we have refinanced the $700 million maturity that was due in February 2011.
The tax rate declined 40 basis points to 32.2%.
Benefiting from the lower tax rate and the lower interest costs net earnings declined by 5% this quarter.
However diluted shares outstanding also declined 5% in the quarter the results of our share repurchase activity since the first quarter a year ago and thus earnings per share were comparable to prior year.
Segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on this slide.
U.S.
Simple Meals sales declined by 3% reflecting lower results for U.S.
Soup partially offset by growth in U.S.
Sauces.
U.S.
Soup sales fell 4% in the first quarter as lower volumes were only partly compensated by higher selling prices.
We have improved price realization through our reduction in promotional discounting and a list price action.
Our promotional spending in the first quarter includes the funding to support our 35 new Simple Meal items compared to just 5 items a year ago.
Within the U.S.
Simple Meals segment sales trends in U.S.
Sauces have improved achieving modest gains in the quarter.
Sales of Prego pasta sauce achieved volume-driven sales gains while sales of Pace Mexican sauce declined slightly.
As I mentioned we have stepped up our support both in advertising and promotional spending which is beginning to have a positive impact on performance.
Sales of the Global Baking and Snacking segment increased 1% as growth in Pepperidge Farm was partially offset by declines at Arnott's.
Pepperidge Farm sales increased primarily due to gains in Goldfish snack crackers and the continued success of Milano Melts cookies.
Decline in Arnott's was driven primarily by lower volumes which have been negatively impacted by higher price points at retail and a weakening consumer environment in Australia.
Within the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment organic sales declined by 7% primarily due to a volume-driven decline of soup sales in Canada where we significantly reduced promotional spending.
Lower European sales also contributed to the decline.
Volume reductions in France and Germany were only partly offset by sales gains in Belgium.
U.S.
Beverage sales decreased 3% versus prior year primarily driven by decline in sales of V-8 vegetable juice partly offset by sales growth in V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash.
We continue to focus on accelerating innovation in this category and the launch of V8 V-Fusion smoothies significantly contributed to sales growth in the quarter tracking ahead of our expectations.
We increased both advertising and promotional spending in response to intensified competition and new entrants into the category.
The shelf-stable juice category in total declined in the period.
Sales of North American Foodservice increased by 6% primarily due to volume gains in fresh-chilled soup sold at retail.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals increased 8% to $260 million this quarter.
The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to improved performance in U.S.
Soup.
U.S.
Soup operating earnings increased primarily due to higher selling prices and lower marketing expenses partially offset by volume declines.
Within marketing the reduction associated with the timing of our U.S.
Soup campaign was partly offset by the increased brand building support behind our Sauce business.
Earnings within Global Baking and Snacking declined by 12% on lower earnings at Arnott's.
The decline there was primarily due to the impact of cost inflation and lower sales volumes partially offset by the favorable impact of currency.
Pepperidge Farm earnings were comparable to a year ago as the impact of cost inflation was offset by higher selling prices and productivity gains.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings declined by 16% primarily due to lower earnings in Canada and the Asia-Pacific regions.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages declined by 45%.
This was primarily due to double-digit inflation from juice concentrates and packaging material the negative impact of increased promotional spending and increased advertising.
Given the competitive environment we increased marketing spending both in trade promotions and advertising to step up our support for this business.
Operating earnings within North America Foodservice increased by $4 million primarily driven by higher selling prices and productivity improvements partly offset by cost inflation.
U.S.
Soup sales are detailed here.
In the quarter lower volumes were partly offset by higher selling prices.
As we've discussed we shifted our promotional strategy in the middle of last year.
As anticipated the shift is having a negative impact on volume and sales which will continue through the first half of this fiscal year.
Within soup condensed sales decreased by 4% with declines in both eating and cooking varieties.
Ready-to-serve was down by 9% reflecting declines in both canned and microwavable soups.
The RTS segment has been the most impacted by price realization through reduced promotional spending.
Broth sales rose 6% primarily driven by higher selling prices and volume gains mostly in aseptic cartons.
The U.S.
wet soup category performance from the latest 52 weeks based on IRI panel data and Campbell internal estimates is shown here.
The overall category rose in dollars by 0.4% in the past 52 weeks.
Our soup sales declined by 2.6% underperforming the category due to volume declines associated with our reductions in trade spending which began February 1 and our list price increase beginning in mid-June.
Other branded players increased U.S.
Soup sales by 4.7% during the period while private label soup sales rose by 7%.
While it's not shown on the chart total volume in the soup category declined slightly versus the prior 52 weeks.
Campbell's market share decreased 1.9 points as we focused on stabilizing soup profits.
The share decline was driven by ready-to-serve soup as our market share from condensed soup and broth were essentially unchanged.
Moving now to cash flow from operations.
It was a source of $73 million compared to a use of $29 million in the prior period.
Cash flow benefited from a $72 million reduction in pension contributions and a $49 million decrease in working capital requirements.
Capital expenditures of $35 million were up from $27 million a year ago.
During the quarter we broke ground on our new R&amp;D facility at Pepperidge Farm which will contribute to our innovation efforts going forward.
For the year we continue to forecast capital spending of approximately $325 million.
During the first quarter we repurchased 2.6 million shares at a cost of $85 million under our strategic share repurchase program announced in June 2011.
Net debt was $2.7 billion a decrease of $85 million.
Last July we discussed our new strategies to stabilize and then profitably grow North America Soup and Simple Meals expand our international presence and continue to drive growth in healthy beverages and baked snacks.
Fiscal 2012 represents a transition year as we make the investments necessary to return to our long-term growth target rates.
Our expectations for 2012 remain unchanged with net sales growth to be between 0% and 2%.
And we expect a decline in EBIT of between 9% and 7% and a decline in adjusted EPS of between 7% and 5%.
We expect to increase marketing spending for the balance of the year as well as improve sales and gross margin trends.
Now we'll move to Q&amp;A.
Thank you.
At this time we'll conduct a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> On the past call you guided to flattish gross margins for the full year.
And I realize with margins in the first quarter being perhaps a little weaker than at least we had modeled I guess I'm wondering if that's still a reasonable assumption for the full year.
And the reason I ask is that if not with the top line and EBIT guidance unchanged are you getting a sense of what this implies for SG&amp;A and if Campbell is still committed to the $100 million in the incremental spend around marketing and innovation for the year.
Let me start with the last piece of that and say that we are committed to the incremental spend against innovation and marketing.
In the first quarter we were cycling the worst inflation comparison that we'll have across the full year and we probably had a little bit of a negative -- a more negative mix composition in the first quarter than we would expect to have for the balance of the year Andrew.
I think that for the balance of the year for the remaining 3 quarters we would still be expecting gross margin to be essentially flat.
Whether we'll get back all of the reduction we had in the first quarter or not I'm not sure.
But I think we'll be essentially flat for the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> So there -- is there anything else that changes that allows you to keep your EBIT guidance for the year the same? Or is it more just that's the reason for the range I guess? Well partially that's the reason for the range.
But again if you think about the profile of the P&amp;L this quarter the things that would be different as we look forward would be an expectation for a stronger top line a somewhat better mix composition stronger gross margin.
And those things would give us the ability to show the higher marketing spend as we go forward in the balance of the 3 quarters and still hit within the range of our bottom line.
Yes regarding the $100 million investment we are absolutely committed to it.
We've ramped up staff and funded our innovation breakthrough teams in R&amp;D and we are building a consumer-validated pipeline for F13 and beyond.
And then you will continue to see increases in advertising and consumer promotion as the year unfolds versus a year ago.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question I have has to do with the -- is there anything short term or intermediate term Denise that you think can -- that can be done to kind of change the dynamics in beverages and -- at Arnott's? I mean it just seems that that's to a certain extent more macro-driven in the case of Australia.
And for beverages it just seems like unless the competition goes away or the category for whatever reason turns around it's a little bit kind of out of your control.
Well it's true that the shelf-stable juice category has weakened and despite our declines we actually did outperform the category.
However we believe that given the new entrants into the fruit and vegetable segments of the category as well as vegetable-based segments that we really needed to increase our promotion and protect our business.
Now we have our new products shipping starting with V8 V-Fusion smoothies which early days look really positive.
And our new advertising has started too.
So what we really would like to do as the year unfolds is rely more on the innovation and the brand building and much less on the price promotion going forward.
But we'll have to watch the dynamics of the category because this is a very important business for us.
In regards to Arnott's needless to say that we are revising our plans to respond to this new reality.
And we believe that we have very strong brands in that marketplace and will continue to work that.
And the other thing we are doing is introducing new products into the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do I get a follow-up Jennifer? Sure.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The -- I guess just having observed the company for a long time now it seems that when it comes to the soup advertising or promotion the company over the years just has tried like advertising in the fiscal fourth quarter and trying to get -- boost the business in a non-seasonally important part.
And then obviously you've changed what happened a year ago.
But I guess is it -- maybe it's a tough question to answer.
But is it really about the timing of the advertising or promotion? I mean isn't it at the end of the day just about the quality of the soup during the height of the soup season and that's really what's going to make a difference and not out of what seems like a never-ending shift as to what the company thinks is the right time or not the right time to advertise or promote the product? Well I mean I think that the quality in the product is always important and we at Campbell's take that very seriously.
I do think though that based on what we did last year in the first quarter with the heavy discounting and the front-loading of our advertising the fact that we are cycling with a whole different program this year is definitely going to show up in the comps.
And so we felt that we had to explain that.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So as you look into analyzing that the first quarter -- and I think -- and you were pretty clear I guess going into -- I think going back to the fourth quarter call that in soup you were expecting a pretty tough quarter just because you were raising prices you had less promotional activity and your advertising wasn't going to hit until late in the quarter.
And it looks like the volume elasticities were not worse than you thought they were going to be or I think maybe even a little bit better.
As the advertising has hit and as we start to model I guess the second and third quarters have you begun to see at all a positive effect of being on air more? Has it had some effect on the elasticities? Just trying to get a sense for whether now there's -- you're getting some traction from having more support behind the price increase.
We were...
We're not going to comment on the current month or partial quarter in any way.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right right.
But I think that what I can comment on is that we were encouraged by the fact that the volume declines weren't as severe as we modeled them and that the elasticities were in fact better.
That said we know that to grow this category we need a shift from stocking up to brand usage.
And so the increase in marketing and advertising in quarter 2 and quarter 3 will be against that particular goal.
So our expectation is that we'll continue to cycle a tough quarter in quarter 2 and we will be cycling comparable conditions starting February 1.
But we will be in full swing for both quarters.
Research Division</strong> And just maybe if you look at the first quarter just any idea or any insight into why the elasticities ended up being better than you thought.
Is it because the product proposition is better? Is it because the competition did something different? Just trying to understand that in terms of trying to extrapolate into the second quarter what we should be modeling.
I believe that last year when we did the heavy promotion discounting we didn't get the volume lift that we had anticipated because given the recessionary environment the consumer stock-up behavior had fundamentally changed.
Thus when we had better price realization the lift were actually a little better than what we thought.
So I think that what we learned here is that the consumer is willing to pay a higher price for the product.
That said we have to make sure we maintain a good balance of promotional activity with regular pricing in the marketplace.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions for you in U.S.
Soup.
I know you had the launch of Slow Kettle in the quarter.
You also had some new products a year ago.
I'm curious if maybe you have any little color on Slow Kettle initially.
And then maybe in relation to that year-over-year was there a benefit investment from new product activity in U.S.
Soup? Yes.
Well first of all just to sheer a number of new product entries in U.S.
Soup was about 27 new SKUs this year versus 3 last year.
So we hit the market with some force.
And just to highlight really 2 new products that show early signs of encouragement: one as you mentioned Slow Kettle; and the second is Swanson Flavor Boost.
And it's too early really to gauge consumer reaction at this point.
But we have achieved our distribution targets and we've got our merchandising plans in place.
So far our Slow Kettle distribution and velocity is on plan.
And our Swanson Flavor Boost velocities are above target and we believe that's due to the fact that we have now started our advertising and FSI support against that.
So we're very happy with the sales execution but I don't think you would have seen much impact on the actual numbers in the first quarter.
They're pretty limited.
Right not yet.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to follow up on the previous -- I think it was from Bryan's question but sort of the marketing and the R&amp;D and the increased investment of $100 million for the year.
Is that any -- was that skewed at all to other division so that U.S.
Beverage is getting more of that money than maybe you thought? I'm just -- I'm really more interested at how soup spending.
Kind of as you see it today does it have to increase more or less than you thought or just on plan? First of all I think there are 2 things that are important here.
One is that when you think about the $100 million you can think about it in lots of different parts of our P&amp;L right? We're supporting new product introduction with money that would show up in trade spend.
We're increasing marketing spend.
In this past quarter for example we made considerable investment in Beverages with -- and our Sauce business.
As the year progresses you'll see some increased advertising in soup.
We're also supporting SG&amp;A kinds of expenses in the P&amp;L as we've put the innovation platforms that we've talked about together in CNA.
The other thing -- and I think Denise made this point particularly back in July.
It's not just a matter of bossing an extra $100 million in on top of what we were doing.
There's been a tremendous amount of redirection of activity and effort in the base spending so that we feel that we are being more effective in our spending within the R&amp;D line that we're being more effective with our spending inside the marketing programs against some of these products.
So even in the event that say advertising against a particular product line may not be up significantly we think we spending a little more wisely and we're definitely more focused on new product and innovation.
So I guess my point is it's a little hard to scorekeep across all of those different dimensions against the $100 million without also thinking about redirected activity within the base.
[indiscernible] in operating committee to work with us with a large amount of discipline to make sure that we're tracking where the money is spent and how we're getting the best returns for that investment.
But this is going to take us some time.
Our next question comes from Rob Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm still a little confused on where the money is being spent.
I think that your advertising campaign for a liquid soup can do -- is expected to be only mildly higher than it was a year ago a little above $100 million.
And then I look at the R&amp;D line and it's flat versus a year ago.
Denise you said that you're staffing up and you're probably testing a bunch of ideas.
But I guess I'm just not clear like -- I would have expected R&amp;D certainly to be up higher.
I would have expected market research to be higher.
Where are you right now in testing a pipeline of ideas that can come out in fiscal '13? We have a full court press against developing this consumer-validated pipeline.
And we have -- remember we had a number of R&amp;D and consumer insights resources on sodium reduction in the past.
We've been able to repurpose a large number of those resources towards developing new disruptive innovation particularly in the area of Simple Meals because we already had a pretty robust group against beverage and baked snacks.
But it is in absolute full swing and we're pretty pleased with the progress that they are making.
That's not necessarily showing up in the P&amp;L as you look at the numbers versus a year ago because there has been some reallocation.
But as the year advances you will start to see the advertising and consumer line jump.
Research Division</strong> I get it.
And then Craig can you remind us if there's anything in that $100 million any assumption on higher incentive comp hitting your numbers this year? We have said that we have a headwind of about $20 million on incentive comp but that is not in any way counted in the $100 million.
Research Division</strong> Separate.
Okay.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Alexis Borden in for David this morning.
Just a question.
We saw some volume weakness across international baking/snacking -- the baking/snacking of course on the Australia side.
Did you expect these volume declines? And what do you kind of see going forward? Do you think volumes are going to rebound? Or is this kind of a trend here? Did you mean throughout global? Just to clarify Global Baking and Snacking or just Australia baking and snacking in particular where you're asking about volumes? Research Division</strong> Well both the international segment and the one also Global Baking and Snacking.
Well I mean we anticipate that the Pepperidge Farm part of our business which performed well in the first quarter will continue on that trajectory.
We are dealing with the slower consumer environment in Australia.
We did have more price realization in quarter 1 and we believe the pricing that the consumer experienced negatively impacted our volumes.
So we are revising our plans to respond to this new reality.
And we will continue to support our brands with strong levels of marketing support and introduce new products.
And so we expect that there will be a positive response to this.
Research Division</strong> But what about the International Simple Meals and Beverages? Volumes were down 7%.
Do you see further volume losses there or kind of...
Yes we got off to a pretty tough start in both pieces of our Australia business so Denise talked about Global Baking and Snacking.
The soup side of that business was weakish also for some of the same reasons with respect to consumer weakness in Australia.
And the European business frankly was soft particularly in Germany and France.
And the other point to make there is we employed the same strategy in Canada that we did in the U.S.
So volumes are down significantly in Canada as we pulled back significantly on our trade promotion level.
And so as with U.S.
Simple Meals we would expect to see some strengthening as we move through the year there.
Thanks Anthony there for chiming in.
Our next question comes from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the advertising.
How do you anticipate your trends the consumer response to advertising which has ramped up lately? Is it typical that the response is gradual? Do you expect a gradual ramp-up in consumer spending particularly that non-promoted volume? Or is this something where you typically see more of an immediate response as you remind them of soup in that occasion? Advertising typically takes a little bit longer than the immediate gratification of a promotion.
However there's been some changes in our advertising that are really really important.
We did repeat an anthem spot because that really showed some good diagnostics last year.
What we did was we revised our condensed soup spots to highlight more of the emotional aspects of the brands given consumer feedback.
So that's fundamentally different.
We were also featuring our icons chicken noodle soup tomato in those spots which we did not do last year when we featured the other varieties.
We continued with Chunky in the campaign as is because that was a very strong response.
So we believe overall that we've learned from what worked last year and what didn't and we strengthened the campaign.
But we do expect that that campaign will take time to seed and grow the business.
Research Division</strong> If I can just squeeze one more in.
How do you -- how would you characterize the pricing right now in the soup aisle? It looks like there's some broader price increases by competition out there in just the last month or so of the data but maybe that's just a blip.
No we moved prices up in June but your observations are correct.
In quarter 1 we're starting to see other branded and private label competitors improve their price realization.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> The Beverage business had some margin pressure this quarter and we don't have a ton of historical data around that segment.
So I'd just like to maybe get your sense for how you frame our expectations around both when those margins might start to recover? And then also what you would consider to be kind of a normalized sustainable segment margin for Beverage.
Well Ed I -- it's difficult to predict when the environment might change.
2 things are going on at the same time here.
One is that we've seen really significant inflation into the category from both packaging costs and from juice concentrates.
And the other thing is that we've seen a lot of competitive entrants into the category.
So we have been intentionally being very competitive with respect to price and with respect to promotional activity to defend the territory that we've carved out there.
Historically I would say that the V8 red juice tends to be very responsive to the overall consumer environment and tends to weaken somewhat in difficult economies strengthen somewhat in stronger economies.
We've continued to see good growth from our innovative product entries but we haven't gotten as much margin as we would normally like in those areas because of the circumstances that I just described.
So I think as you look forward clearly we would expect to restore some margin to the category over time.
But in the short term it's going to be a rough piece of the business for us because of those circumstances.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just as a quick follow-up.
Can you tell us if there's historically much margin seasonality within that business? We obviously know the last year's numbers but over a longer period of time are certain quarters higher versus lower margins in that business typically? There's not a great deal of seasonal variation in our juice business on margin.
Our next question comes from Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> Just -- I think I've asked this question almost on every call every quarter now.
I just want to focus on the balance sheet again and buybacks.
I know over the past -- I mean consistently over the past 10 years you buy back shares every year.
Past 3 years on average each year you've been buying back about 600 million.
It sounds like some of your options are starting to roll off more.
So I'm just curious.
This year I saw you bought back some shares in Q1.
But should we be modeling in a $500 million cash outflow? Or just some color on expectation for incremental buybacks this year especially because you're so under levered.
Yes we don't give a forecast on share buyback by the year.
As you know we've got a $1 billion program that was approved last June.
I think the best thing I can do is just relate back to what we say about cash flow.
First priority is reinvestment in our business for good return.
Our second priority is to the extent that we can identify good candidates for acquisition or partnership kinds of activities invest in the expansion in our international business or in our domestic business in those ways.
We try to be very consistent with respect to the way that we handle the dividend and the share repurchase is sort of the last and most flexible piece of the cash flow picture for us.
And in our order to keep it that way we don't lock ourselves into a specific forecast for the year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up on the comment you just made too.
On cash flow is -- I mean if I just look kind of on average over the past 5 years I mean you've actually spent more on the dividend than you have on CapEx and purchasing new assets combined.
So I'm just -- if I'm thinking forward 3 or 5 or 10 years for kind of a stable business as yours on the cash flow side do you think that would ever reverse? I mean do you think -- would you ever potentially hold the dividend flat not grow the dividend but grow more in acquisitions and value-creating investments? We tend to look at the dividend versus the peer group that we're in and while we don't have a written policy from the board we sort of hang around the middle of the payout ratio of the peer set.
And I think that would be the reasonable expectation looking forward.
Our next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So innovation this quarter.
You guys had a lot that come into market.
I think Denise you highlighted soup going from 3 to 27.
Was there any sort of any pipeline benefit just as you stock up warehouses get that on shelf that we should be aware of this quarter? Not one that would be very material to the numbers Jason.
No.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I think that's helpful.
Looking at soup in aggregate you guys had a lot of comments about [indiscernible] on elasticity is coming in better.
You're feeling good about innovation you're feeling good about the efficacy of your marketing even if the magnitude is down year-on-year.
How do we split that with some of the performance though? Because I look at soup particularly RTS I mean it's down 9% this quarter.
It was down 13% the same quarter last year.
Is that really better than what you guys were expecting this quarter? Actually the overall soup performance was better than what we were expecting this quarter in that we said that we were going to stabilize the category from a profitability standpoint for us and then grow net sales.
And believe me when we went away from the price discounting that we did last year and the volumes came in better than expected and therefore the profitability was better than expected we believe we're on our way to stabilizing our business and then profitably growing from that base.
Just to give some more context on that.
Our volume performance in soup in the first quarter despite the list price increase in the fourth quarter and the reduction in trade is better than the back half of last year.
Research Division</strong> Where was the increase in trade then? Because I see your promotions were negative 1% this quarter as a contributor to sales.
Was that more sauces and salsa? Yes trade is up on both Beverages and Sauce businesses.
Our next question comes from Eric Serotta with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you just answered it but I just wanted to go through a little bit more color on the trade spending in U.S.
Simple Meals.
It's kind of surprising to me that overall trade spending in Simple Meals could be up when it's down for the U.S.
Soup business.
Just given the relative size of soup versus sauces how is that the case? Part of it is the nuance to how we calculate these variances.
Certainly on a dollar basis year-on-year trade promotion spending is down in U.S.
Soup.
When we do the sales variances you can think of it as if we're doing it on a rate-per-case idea.
So promotional spending is down and volume is down.
And that's why you don't see it on the sales variance as much.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Craig have you given a estimate as to COGS inflation for this year? Yes we have.
We have said that input cost would be in the 8% to 10% range that the net impact after our enabler program would be between 3% and 5% on total cost of sales.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And has that changed since the Analyst Day that -- I believe that was from the Analyst Day right? It has not changed and the first quarter fell roughly in line with that.
We were up between 7% and 8% in terms of input cost.
Our enablers were about 3% of cost of sales.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with Credit Agricole Securities.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about the shipment versus scanner.
And I think this might be a function of what you talked about earlier in the call when you said you saw some channel shift traditional retail sort of bearing the brunt of the changing shopping patterns.
But I'm particularly concerned about the ready-to-serve segment which seemed to show sort of for the 12-week basis a bigger decline than your shipment.
So is that just a function of consumers are shopping in channels that aren't part of the scanner data? Or is there a little bit of buildup? Because we know that advertising is going to get turned on.
What do you attribute that to? We found that for the quarter shipments track consumption more closely than what we experienced last year.
And in quarter 1 typically we ship ahead of consumption because we're building for the season but we did see a lower level of customer inventory than last year.
And we believe that in the prior year because of the heavy discounting we did we were definitely shipping more cases ahead of consumption in the quarter last year.
And we do track customer inventories for the majority of our customers.
And actually our inventories are down versus a year ago.
So -- but we believe that the shipments are pretty much in line with consumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just clarify for me when did you turn advertising on last year? When did you turn it on this year? And then when did you turn it off in about soup last year? So I can get some kind of idea about you turned it on in August and this year you turned it on in September.
Just give me a timeline.
Yes we turned it on August 1 last year against our reignite condensed launch and we were pretty much done by the halftime.
And this year we turned it on the week after Labor Day this is in soup the week after Labor Day.
And we intend to go through the third -- the end of the third quarter.
In beverages we turned on the advertising October 15.
In sauce we didn't advertise that much last year so we actually started sauce advertising in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what do you consider halftime just to clarify last year? The end of January.
Research Division</strong> End of January.
Okay.
Okay.
We'll turn it back over to Denise for our wrap-up.
So before we conclude our first quarter call let me leave you with a few thoughts.
The important point I want to make is while it's early we are clear where we're headed and we're beginning to execute our strategies.
We'll continue to do what we said we would do and we'll continue to tell you what's working what's not and what we're doing about it.
And while our first quarter financial performance was largely in line with our expectations we recognize that we've got more work to do in our categories.
Stepping back the quarter serves to reinforce our conviction that more brand building and innovation are needed to deliver the profitable sales growth that we want.
And as we focus forward we're determined to build a different company at Campbell one that creates value by driving sustainable profitable net sales growth.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Welcome to the second quarter earnings call and webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance.
Denise will kick us off today by giving a strategic update and commenting on our segment results for the second quarter.
Craig will offer his take on the quarter and first half as well as our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Then after we take your questions Denise will make a few closing remarks.
Before I move on to our important reminders I'd like to invite all of you to join our webcast next week.
It's February 22 Wednesday at 10:30 a.m.
Eastern when we're presenting at the CAGNY 2012 conference in Boca Raton.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes certain forward-looking statements that reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and which inherently are subject to risks.
Please refer to the slides in our presentation or the company's most recent Form 10-K and any subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
Since our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides as well as our earnings release and selected quarterly financial data can be found on our website.
And with that let me turn the call over to Denise.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining Campbell's second quarter earnings call.
Six months into our strategic transition we are focused on building a different company at Campbell.
As we said last July implementing our new strategic direction will require substantial investment.
We're confident that the course we've charted will position Campbell for future success.
This morning I'll provide my perspective on our segment performance and our progress.
Our U.S.
Simple Meals and North America Foodservice businesses are tracking favorably and we expect improved performance in Australia and U.S.
Beverages.
We are slightly behind our expectations on net sales but projecting to be within our guidance for full year 2012.
As a reminder Campbell's primary goal is to create value by driving sustainable profitable net sales growth.
We continue to make progress executing our growth strategies and our focus remains on the consumer.
Our 3 growth strategies are: stabilize and then profitably grow North America Soup and Simple Meals expand our international presence and continue to drive growth in healthy beverages and bake snacks.
As we told you last July in fiscal 2012 we are increasing our investment in brand building and innovation for the long-term growth of our business.
Overall to enhance our brand-building efforts this quarter we increased advertising and consumer promotion expense by 6% with gains across all of our portfolio.
You will continue to see increased advertising and consumer promotion in the back half of this year.
Our innovation investments are also progressing and I look forward to sharing some of the early results with you at CAGNY next week.
Within the U.S.
grocery trade this past quarter dollar consumption softened dramatically particularly in the last 4 weeks of the quarter.
For total Simple Meals this softer consumption occurred across almost all categories with 32 center store categories experiencing declining trends for the 4-week period versus full year-to-date.
Our hypothesis is that continued pressure on the consumer in the current economic environment increased after holiday spending cycles and the resulting decrease in personal disposable income has forced consumers to reduce discretionary spending including food.
Overall consumer outlay for total food and beverage was up only 1% in the 12-week period and the average number of units per trip declined 3%.
Against this backdrop I'll offer a brief perspective on our second quarter results.
Our second quarter performance was broadly in line with our expectations.
However sales of $2.1 billion were slightly lower than what we anticipated.
As expected our adjusted EBIT and EPS were down due to the marketing investments we're making inflation and a higher tax rate.
Now let me offer some perspective on some of our segment results.
In U.S.
Simple Meals we're delivering on our efforts to stabilize profitability.
We had a modest profit decline in U.S.
Simple Meals as weaknesses in sauces was partially offset by stronger profits in soup.
There are 3 drivers of our soup performance.
Number one we're achieving price realization via reduced promotional discounting and list price increases.
As a result we're shedding less profitable volume.
Number two we're delivering and supporting meaningful levels of innovation.
We launched 27 new products this year compared with just 3 last year.
And number three we're driving advertising and consumer promotion behind our big brands and consumer behaviors.
Our overall U.S.
Soup business performed as expected with some puts and takes.
Condensed soup and broth sales were better than expected.
Ready-to-serve soup sales did not meet our expectations.
Increased list prices and the reduction of heavy promotional discounting resulted in significant price realization.
This created wide price gaps against branded competitors that impacted our volume and market share.
We believe that we can be more competitive in RTS and still continue the momentum of profit improvement in the soup business.
Our strategy to increase brand building and reduce heavy discounting is working and drove the fourth consecutive quarterly profit increase for U.S.
Soup.
We anticipate that sales trends in the second half will improve as the heavy discounting is now behind us.
We achieved our largest net gains in soup distribution in more than 4 years total distribution points on-shelf increased mid-single digits.
We recognize that we still have opportunities to build distribution in value channels.
We're setting up our U.S.
Simple Meals for future success and we'll talk more about that at CAGNY next week.
Before I leave Simple Meals as you know we've made some leadership changes at Campbell and Mark Alexander now leads our Campbell North American business.
Mark has a proven track record of success.
He has managed businesses all over the world including soup businesses in the United States Canada Europe Asia and Australia.
And now Global Baking and Snacking.
Global Baking and Snacking turned in a similar performance as the prior quarter but with slightly different drivers.
We made a choice to increase marketing investments in our Pepperidge Farm business.
Our cracker business responded well garnering gains in sales and market share.
Goldfish sales increased double digits.
However pricing contributed to softening in our cookie business during the peak holiday season.
In bakery industry consolidation has made for challenging category dynamics including competitive pricing pressure.
Overall we can compete with our position as a premium player with strong brands and the greater agility that our size enables.
In Australia consumers have sharply curtailed their spending this year and Arnott's had a tough first half.
We started to see stronger sales in January.
We expect improved performance in the back half of the year driven by a strong promotional calendar and a robust set of new product introductions.
Turning now to U.S.
Beverages.
As you saw in the second quarter and the first half of this fiscal year our U.S.
Beverage business is not always without challenges.
We had a significant decline in EBIT due primarily to increased advertising and promotion and cost inflation.
We expect the rate of inflation to abate in the second half and profitability will continue to improve.
And we also have a number of new product introductions slated for the second half.
We've had plenty of experience navigating the V8 business through cyclical upswings and downswings and we've learned that the best way to maximize the health of this business is through brand building and innovation but also to defend what we've built.
Recently our V8 V-Fusion business has been pressured by new competition in the fruit and vegetable segment.
Our investments to defend it have led to earnings pressure in the short term but this is the best course for long-term success.
And despite a weak shelf-stable juice category and intensified competition V8 is outperforming the category and gaining share.
We reiterated our annual guidance this morning.
The guidance reflects the strategic transition we're making including investments in brand building and innovation reallocation of existing resources to fund growth and headwinds in the first half in our U.S.
Beverages and Australian business.
As I said earlier we view fiscal 2012 as a year of investment for Campbell.
We remain very focused on the superb execution of our 3 growth strategies to create a meaningfully different company over time.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Craig for his analysis of our financial results and an elaboration of our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning.
I'll spend a few minutes walking through the second quarter results and segment highlights followed by a brief look at our first half results.
And then I'll provide an outlook for the year and reaffirm our full year sales and earnings guidance.
For the quarter we reported net sales of just over $2.1 billion down 1% versus the second quarter of 2011.
In aggregate there was no currency impact this quarter so organic sales also declined by 1%.
We reported a 2% decline in organic sales in our first quarter.
We recognized some additional restructuring charges in connection with the program that we announced last June.
Excluding that impact EBIT decreased 8% this quarter to $332 million primarily due to significant cost inflation lower volumes and increased marketing investment partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
On a segment basis sales gained in the North American Foodservice division and U.S.
Beverages were more than offset by decreases in International Simple Meals and Beverages and U.S.
Simple Meals.
Earnings fell across all of our segments except for North America Foodservice.
Earnings per share were $0.64 this quarter a 10% decline as compared with the second quarter of 2011.
The 1% decline in net sales reflected a decrease in volume and mix of 3 points and a negative impact of increased promotional spending of 1 point partly offset by an increase in pricing of 3 points.
The majority of the pricing gains have come from our list price actions in U.S.
Soup and in our Baking and Snacking segment taken to partially offset the impact of inflation.
With respect to promotional spending variances higher rates of spending in Baking and Snacking and in our U.S.
Sauces business were partly offset by a reduction in our U.S.
Soup spending.
As many of you know over the last month or 2 we have seen a softening across many categories within the U.S.
grocery trade.
Our categories and consequently our sales have been negatively impacted by this trend.
For the second quarter our gross margin decreased by 100 basis points to 38.4% from 39.4%.
This was primarily due to cost inflation and unfavorable mix partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
Overall our inflation rate and cost of goods sold was approximately 7% in the quarter.
Our lower-margin segments have outperformed our higher-margin segments contributing to a negative mix impact.
While we've implemented higher prices and achieved productivity gains these have not been sufficient to offset inflation and negative mix.
Our gross margin performance is below our own earlier expectations primarily due to higher rates of promotional spending in Baking and Snacking and in U.S.
Beverages.
Our marketing and selling expenses increased 2% to $297 million compared with $291 million in the prior year.
This increase was primarily due to higher advertising and consumer promotion expenses.
Selling expense was lower.
As part of our new strategic direction we're investing in brand building and innovation to drive profitable sales growth for the company.
In the second quarter we increased advertising and consumer promotion expense by 6% with increases across many of our key brands.
Administrative expenses decreased by $2 million to $152 million reflecting the benefit of cost savings from restructuring initiatives partly offset by higher incentive compensation and benefit cost.
Below the operating earnings line net interest expense fell by 16% a decrease of $5 million reflecting an overall reduction in long-term interest rates.
The adjusted tax rate increased to 33.7% from 27.1% in the prior year.
The prior year rate benefited from tax credits associated with foreign earnings.
Reflecting the higher tax rate adjusted net earnings were down by 13%.
Adjusted EPS benefited from a 4% reduction in diluted shares outstanding declining 10% to $0.64 per share.
Second quarter segment sales results and the core organic growth rates are shown year.
U.S.
Simple Meals sales declined 2% reflecting lower sales in both U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Sauces.
U.S.
Soup sales fell 2% this quarter as volume performance was impacted by higher selling prices and decreased promotional spending.
Our sales performance was better than retailer takeaway and this reflected the impact of movements in customer inventory levels relative to the prior year.
We ended the quarter with retailer inventory at normal levels and comparable to prior year.
Within the U.S.
Simple Meals segment sales of the U.S.
Sauces segment decreased 2% Prego pasta sauce achieved 6% volume-driven sales gains benefiting from increased advertising support and promotional activity.
Pace Mexican sauce declined 7% reflecting the impact of increased private label activity and other Simple Meals brands also declined.
Global Baking and Snacking sales decreased 1% due to declines in Arnott's.
Pepperidge Farm had increased sales primarily due to crackers led by the double-digit growth in Goldfish snack crackers partially offset by a reduction in cookie and bakery products.
The performance of our Arnott's business was negatively impacted by higher promoted and non-promoted price points at retail and a weak consumer environment.
Although still down the sales trend at Arnott's was much improved compared to the first quarter.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages organic sales declined 4% primarily due to declines in Europe and Canada partly offset by gains in Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region.
In Europe where there has been a challenging economic environment sales fell primarily due to volume loss in France and Germany.
Reflecting improved top line performance and outpacing the category U.S.
Beverages sales increased 4% versus prior year.
Gains were primarily driven by growth in V8 Splash drinks and V8 V-Fusion juice partly offset by weakness in V8 vegetable juice.
Contributing to growth this quarter were the launch of new items including V8 V-Fusion Smoothies as well as higher levels of advertising to support the new campaign with Jackie Chan.
Sales of North America Foodservice increased by 9% primarily due to volume-driven gains in fresh chilled soups sold at retail.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals decreased by 2% to $174 million this quarter.
This reflected lower earnings in U.S.
Sauces including incremental spending on Simple Meals innovation partly offset by gains in U.S.
Soup.
For the segment lower volumes and increased advertising and consumer promotion expenses were partly offset by an increase in gross margin percentage and lower selling and administrative expense.
Our strategy to reduce the level of promotional spending in U.S.
Soup to improve profitability is working.
We have now achieved 4 consecutive quarters of earnings growth.
Earnings within Global Baking and Snacking declined by 12% reflecting decreases in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's primarily due to cost inflation and increased promotional and marketing spend.
This was partly offset by higher selling prices.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings declined 16% primarily due to increased cost associated with our market expansion investment in China and lower earnings in Europe and Canada.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages were down 21% reflecting significant cost inflation primarily in juice concentrates and packaging materials as well as higher advertising and consumer expense partly offset by productivity gains.
North America Foodservice continues to achieve strong growth with operating earnings up 33%.
Higher earnings have been primarily driven by volume gains higher selling prices and productivity improvements partly offset by cost inflation.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter decreased 2%.
Within soup sales of condensed soup increased by 5% with gains in both cooking and eating varieties.
Ready-to-serve sales where price elasticity is most evident declined 12%.
RTS sales in the quarter benefited from the introduction of Slow Kettle soups.
Broth sales also increased on volume gains of aseptically packaged broth and the successful introduction of our Swanson Flavor Boost product.
Before I move on I want to comment on a topic that has received increased attention lately.
As you know bisphenol A or BPA is widely used in metal food packaging to help preserve and protect food and to maintain its nutritional value and quality.
We believe that current can packaging is one of the safest options in the world.
However we recognize that there is some debate over the use of BPA.
The trust that we've earned from our consumers for over 140 years is paramount to us.
And we've been monitoring and working on the issue for several years.
Because of this we've already started using alternatives to BPA in some of our soup packaging and we're working to phase out the use of BPA in aligning of all of our canned products.
The cost of this effort is not expected to be material.
The U.S.
wet soup market share results from the latest 52 weeks based on IRI panel data and Campbell's internal estimates is shown here.
Campbell's market share decreased 2.4 points to 60% as we focused on stabilizing soup profits.
The share loss was driven by ready-to-serve soup as our market share from condensed was down only slightly and broth was actually up.
Other branded players gained 1.5 points in total and private label gained nearly 1 point.
The overall category was down in dollars by 0.9% in the past 52 weeks.
Our soup sales declined 4.7% underperforming the category due to anticipated volume loss associated with our reductions in deep discounting and our list pricing please.
Other branded players increased sales by 5% during the period while private label sales rose 6%.
Looking at our first-half results now.
Reported and organic net sales decreased 1%.
Excluding items impacting comparability adjusted EBIT of $750 million was down 7% versus a year ago.
As with the quarter this decrease was primarily due to significant cost inflation and lower volumes partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity gains.
A 5% decline in adjusted EPS was less than the EBIT declined as we have continued to benefit from utilizing our excess cash flow to repurchase shares.
Diluted shares outstanding fell by 4%.
Cash flow from operations was $478 million compared to $483 million in the prior period.
This decrease reflected the impact of lower cash earnings partly offset by the benefit of lower pension contribution.
During the first half of the year we utilized our positive cash flow to repurchase 5.3 million shares at a cost of $173 million under our strategic share repurchase program announced in June 2011 and our practice of buying back shares to offset those issued under our equity-based compensation programs.
Net debt was $2.6 billion a decrease of $240 million.
Reflecting our expectation of improved sales performance in the second half of the year we're reaffirming our full year guidance.
We expect net sales growth of between 0 and plus 2% a decline in adjusted EBIT of between 7% and 9% and a decline in adjusted EPS of between 5% and 7% putting adjusted EPS in the range of $2.35 to $2.42.
We are now forecasting that our gross margin percentage will decline about 1 point compared to 2011.
As I mentioned earlier this is due to higher rates of promotional spending in our Baking and Snacking segment and in U.S.
Beverages.
Our guidance has not changed because operating expense including marketing is now forecast lower than our original expectation.
That being said we're still planning significant increases in our advertising and consumer promotion in the second half of the year.
Thank you very much.
With that I'll turn it back over to Jennifer to start the Q&amp;A.
Operator we're ready for the Q&amp;A.
Could you give us our first question? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question revolves around your outlook.
And it sounds like a little bit more confidence in the second half fiscal sales doing a bit better and yet as I'm sure you're aware a lot of companies are grappling with consumer and lower volumes.
And you kind of made reference to that as well post the holiday so that would refer to just January.
So I guess why exactly do you feel that sales can hang in there when it seems like the consumer is going the other way and retailers are cutting back on inventory and the whole industry seems to be in the midst of really really tough times? There's a number of factors Eric that give us reason to believe that second half will be better.
First of all in our U.S.
Soup business we are continuing with much higher levels of marketing advertising and consumer promotion in the second half of the year versus where we were last year.
In addition our -- we are now cycling a period of time that does not include the heavy discounting that we've had in the base for the last 4 quarters.
We also have price realization on U.S.
Soup that will come through versus year ago.
In Australia where we've had a tough first half we have a much stronger promotion calendar in half 2 and several new product launches.
And we have already seen evidence as recently as January that the performance of that business continues to get better.
In Beverage our cost inflation comparatives improved and we're also introducing new products.
And we're continuing to support that business as well with advertising and consumer promotion.
And I think the other thing in Beverages we're continuing to take steps in the supply chain to improve margins.
So I believe across all the businesses we're taking into account that it is a tough environment and we're making the necessary plan changes to make sure we're delivering despite that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just as a follow-up and then I'll pass it on.
Condensed seem to be surprisingly strong in the quarter versus the IRI data that we see and some expectations.
But I'm kind of wondering is it a function that the price point on condensed is so low given the -- and the value that the consumer sees that that's really started to come through? Because obviously Smucker General Mills and others have kind of -- if they took the pricing over a certain threshold it seemed like the volume just collapsed coincident with that.
And maybe condensed is the opposite because it's normally featured during the winter at sometimes 10 for 10 or things like that.
So maybe you could just comment on that and then I'll pass it on.
Yes there's no doubt that condensed soup benefited from the fact that we have -- with the increased pricing that we've taken in the category and RTS especially condensed has come through to the consumer as a better value.
Coupled with a strong holiday on condensed soup we did have a good quarter.
So I do think that it is a better value at this point.
I don't know if you have anything else that you want to say Craig? I think maybe a little bit of the difference between the consumption numbers that you referenced and the sales takeaway in condensed we said in the discussion here that inventory movement and it's really prior year inventory movement that was a little unusual helped us a little bit in terms of shipments versus consumption.
And that was probably more prevalent in condensed than it was in RTS.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I was just trying to get your sense of the overall trends in food volumes.
I mean there's been a lot been said about that most other companies are experiencing volume weakness.
Can you just give us a sense of what you're seeing from the consumer? So with all the insights that you have into the consumer what are you seeing in terms of their buying patterns how they changed and perhaps how is Campbell reacting to that? That would be helpful.
Yes well we are obviously tracking 39 categories in the center store.
And of this 39 32 had trends in the last 4-week period that were much lower than the full year-to-date trends.
So there clearly is something going on.
And as I said in my opening remarks I believe it's just post-holiday pressure.
Consumers are making choices.
And one of the biggest discretionary budgets they have is their food budget and so we believe that that is largely responsible for what we're seeing.
Basket size is down 3% so units per buyer is down and spending is down.
So they're clearly making different choices.
Research Division</strong> Have you made any changes to your strategies short-term? Because this is a more recent event.
I know you have your long-term plans which you've made clear to us.
But have you made any changes recently given the trends you've seen? I would say the most changes that we've made have been in the Australia business.
In the United States we've been able to navigate this because this has been with us for a while.
Yes I would sort of separate big strategic moves where I think Denise is exactly right from sort of the day-to-day in the marketplace.
I mean we've seen -- in this past quarter we've increased our promotional activity and spending a little bit in Pepperidge where we've seen category weakness in bakery.
And I mean we're sort of constantly adjusting the dial on a small level.
But I agree that we haven't made any big significant strategic...
Right.
Overall we're staying on course.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask a little bit more about the advertising spend and the plans here.
So back at Analyst Day you mentioned that there was the effort to do both an increase in the advertising budget and in R&amp;D.
And I believe the sum total of that number was about $100 million.
So far year-to-date I think -- correct me if I'm wrong on this Craig but I think the number is still slightly down on advertising.
So Craig Denise can you pull this together for me and tell me how you're tracking against that original goal? And perhaps it's been my hypothesis that because the weather was so warm maybe spending a lot of money on advertising with the fourth warmest winter on record is not the best use so maybe you delay it to next year.
So can you take this and kind of give us an update? Yes let me talk first about sort of process that we used when we referenced that number and where we are against that spending.
We literally in our annual planning process identified $100 million some of which we allocated initially in the planning process and some of which we actually kept back in a fund to be allocated as we went through the year.
And the use of all that $100 million was a combination of improving our brand-building activities particularly against some of those brands where we felt like we have not been sufficiently funding them and increased innovation activity.
We said at the time that that amount would show up in all kinds of different parts of the P&amp;L.
Some of it is in freight spend actually because that's where we've spent slotting fees for new products.
Some of it is in SG&amp;A because it's helping to support some of the new product platform teams that we've put in place.
Most of it of course is -- winds up on the P&amp;L in marketing and R&amp;D.
That program that $100 million program is very much on track.
In fact we're spending maybe a little bit ahead of $100 million rate for the year.
We're pretty encouraged by some of the results that we see from it and we're sticking to our guns there.
Now in the rest of the P&amp;L as we said in our guidance statement here we're a little bit below our -- as we forecast the full year now we're going to be below our original expectation in terms of marketing spend.
We have -- we are benefiting for example in R&amp;D from the restructuring activity that we did toward the end of last year where we took out some resource and some spending that we thought wasn't giving us productive payback.
So you've got ups and downs and puts and takes across the P&amp;L.
It's fair to say that the incrementality of this $100 million is not going to be as great as we originally thought it was.
That was referencing back to my point that I made in the guidance statement that marketing for the full year would be somewhat lower than our own expectation.
But it's sort of the difference between the daily weekly monthly management of the P&amp;L our opportunity to find cost savings in various parts of the P&amp;L offsetting and being reallocated versus that $100 million program.
Research Division</strong> Denise can you just maybe make a comment on the winter weather and how that factors in to how you spend against it? Because I'm just curious on whether or not you guys are react to the weather and say maybe we don't want to spend as much right now because it was so warm.
Well we're absolute advocates of global cooling.
But actually we acknowledge the fact that the weather was warmer but we also sell a lot of soup in warm weather climates.
So we've got to deal with that and we are.
I think where we're going particularly with our soup business is we want to increase usage of the product in some positive need states not necessarily the negative ones like when people are sick or when they're cold.
So we're not going to be use weather as an excuse.
We're going to use it as just another environmental factor.
No question in a seasonal business that it's had an impact.
It's had some impact on our European business.
But I think Denise's point really is that in terms of resource allocation we've tried to continue the brand-building activity that we think is sensible.
And we're seeing some good results particularly in our soup business from the advertising itself.
Right.
I wanted to also give you a little bit more perspective on the $100 million.
Just so that you know we spent the money on everything we expected to and we haven't held anything back.
We aren't budgeting on things that haven't come through yet.
You'll see some of those next week.
And we're going to continue to invest this money when we're ready to spend it.
But we feel really good about the fact that it's the right appropriation for the ideas that we have.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 quick questions for you.
I wanted to ask about the shift to alternate channels.
I guess I can see the consumption decline occurring in the IRI and Nielsen data.
I guess I'm surprised that people are really cutting back to that degree.
But can you talk a little bit more about the alternate channel performance and really as it pertains to Campbell? Or maybe if you a broader view on how that shift is occurring for the consumer and what that means for you? Yes.
We know that alternate channels right now in the industry are performing about 7 to 8 points above traditional channels.
And that shift is occurring again across most of the food business.
I would say that our -- we have opportunities in the value channels in particular and that the IRI data is probably about 60% coverage for us.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then my question just was I guess maybe to Craig.
Just to understand the retail inventories now are at the right level.
Was that a benefit across the business? Was it just for soup? If you have a little color on maybe how much it benefited the business? Yes it was primarily within soup.
And again it's really last year that was unusual.
We came into the second quarter last year with pretty heavy inventory levels.
And so in the year-over-year comparison you saw less take out of inventory this year than you did last year.
And yes it's very much a soup idea and maybe a little bit of it in the sauce business but it's primarily a soup issue.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it a couple of points benefit to soup or is that too much? It's probably about a couple of points benefit to soup.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your prepared remarks that condensed and broth were better than you expected.
RTS was maybe a little bit worse.
And I -- Denise I think I heard you mentioned that you expect to be more competitive going forward on RTS.
Were you referring entirely to your plans for more innovation in marketing or did you mean that maybe you went a little bit too far in managing your price points higher and have plans to course correct that a little bit? Yes I think the combination of the list price increases we took the higher promoted price and then less frequency of promotion on RTS all at once was -- created the result that we got.
And we believe that we can still work with the levers that we have to work with improve the profitability of the business based on what we're cycling last year and be more competitive.
And we are going to continue to increase our advertising and consumer promotion on this business as well as the innovation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Do your trade spending plans for the back half of the year have they changed at all in ready-to-serve? Well change versus what? You mean that we adjusted our trade? We're not going to go back...
We manage our trade spend pretty dynamically.
So if you're asking if the total envelope changed I don't think we're going to get down into that level of detail on our planning.
But we have clearly devoted some more resource to RTS as we've come through the very end of this last quarter and start into the next quarter.
Right.
We will not go back to the heavy discounting though.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to I guess follow-up on soup in general and just -- as the year started that you'd raise prices on ready-to-serve and some of the other that the advertising and some of the new product innovation was going to follow.
So I guess 2 things.
One are we at the point now where you feel like you've got most of the resources in place meaning your spending on advertising at a level that was sort of commensurate with what you were expecting? I'm assuming there's going to be some more news on product front coming forward.
And so what we're kind of -- what we're looking at now and going forward is more reflective of what you were envisioning in terms of increasing the spend levels behind your soup business to support the pricing.
Yes that's exactly the point we're at.
I think as we go forward -- so again we've just now cycled the previous year of less deep discounting and the comparisons will get a little clearer as we come across into the second -- I'm sorry into the third and fourth quarter in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And that alignment is basically just happened very recently.
Even going into this quarter you still weren't quite aligned on that.
Right? That's exactly right.
That's correct.
Research Division</strong> And then just if I could just one follow-up.
The condensed performance even if you had shift-out a couple of points for inventory condensed actually performed pretty well this quarter.
And that's even in the face of having some competitor price points on ready-to-serve that were still pretty aggressive.
So could you just talk a little bit about why you think that occurred and has condensed benefited also from just the umbrella advertising on Campbell's? Yes.
Well we believe that our advertising has been much more effective particularly the anthem spot that we have across the portfolio.
And we've also introduced advertising on the icon condensed soups which we have walked away from for a while.
And the emotional impact of moms love serving and kids who love eating.
And that has been pretty effective for condensed soup.
And as I mentioned earlier we had a good holiday.
Research Division</strong> So you're starting to see -- the messaging is beginning -- you can show evidence or you can see signs that as you turn the messaging on you're actually starting to get consumers to respond to it? Yes that's right.
And what I failed to mention also is our Healthy Request business continues to perform very well.
Our next question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess just from the outside Denise it's just very hard to look at fiscal '12 as an investment year when I'm looking at SG&amp;A and it looks like it's going to be barely up this year.
I know there's a lot of puts and takes but it looks like R&amp;D spending actually will be down.
A lot of us thought that there was something kind of big on the horizon from a product perspective to kind of revitalize soup.
But with R&amp;D not looking like it's up and Craig saying that it look -- I thought I heard Craig say that one of the projects that you thought you were going to invest in you decided not to do.
So did something change in terms of the level of investment? Well first of all Rob a correction.
No project has been canceled.
That's the important point here.
All of the new initiative spending has been funded.
It's been funded at the level that we anticipated.
In fact we have funded some new initiatives that we didn't even have fully baked and ready to fund versus the time that we talked to you in July.
What we did say is there's going to be less incrementality that's going to show up in the P&amp;L.
Because in the base business we've made some decisions as we've come through the year in some cases to reallocate spending in a different way; in some cases to take out spending that we didn't think was effective.
So nothing has been canceled.
With respect to R&amp;D I believe that R&amp;D is likely to be up slightly for the year but again you're seeing 2 things going on.
One is some new initiative spending is going into R&amp;D and the other is some resource that we took out of the R&amp;D spending line as we did the reorganization of the business last year in a way that we do not take has hurt our innovation capability but has simply gotten rid of some nonproductive spending basically.
Research Division</strong> I got you.
So that was the low sodium right? It's also some of that yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
It's also important to recognize that much of our innovation spending for example the funding of our innovation teams that expense sits in the marketing overhead line within marketing and not within R&amp;D.
And that has R&amp;D resources on it mix shift.
Yes.
Exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But even marketing and selling isn't really materially higher.
So I guess really what I'm getting at is is this the level of investment the $100 million is done and there's -- it's not going to happen again in fiscal '13 like there's not another $50 million or $100 million coming in fiscal '13? No.
You'll continue to see us invest particularly in half 2 and we believe that we've gotten then the level of advertising and consumer basically to where we want it.
And we'll continue to shift mix over time but there won't be big slugs of money.
But we benefit from the fact that it's now eventually in the base.
As Denise said in July we felt like that our operating margin numbers had gotten up to a level that we just didn't think were sustainable if we were going to do the kind of reinvestment in the business that we wanted to do so adjusting the base essentially does give it to you for the next year.
Right? Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> I got it.
And advertising what do you think advertising is going to be up this year? Because I think you started the year saying that you definitely -- your advertising can fall into a level that was unacceptable the year before.
Yes.
So I don't have a specific advertising number although we are going to start -- in terms of forecast I think we are going to start being a little bit more visible in terms of our A&amp;C spending as we go forward.
So we're working on that.
A&amp;C will be up.
It's up 6% in this quarter and it will be up for the year.
It will be up significantly more.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Very good news on the BPA front.
I guess my question is more of a strategic nature.
Would you consider separating the soup sauces and beverage business from the baking and snacking business? Or would it be that operational de-leveraging would that be too great and prevent such a move from creating value? We've heard a lot of companies announce splits over the course of the last several months.
You yourselves sold Godiva I guess several years ago.
Pringles has just sold for a great multiple and Pepperidge Farm is a similarly strong brand.
Is it something that you considered and what do you think the pros and cons are around that kind of a decision? No we are focused on 3 categories in the company and we believe that operating as one company is the best future for Campbell's.
Our next question comes from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I believe Campbell is already a pretty big spender on advertising as a percentage of sales.
I don't know if you disclosed that but I thought it was pretty high single digits.
So perhaps you could describe why you believe not just quarter-by-quarter but big picture year-over-year why there will be a volume response from incremental ad spend? And maybe this is a kind of thing that maybe you can get on a flywheel here of reinvestment and stabilize the volume in your core soup business.
And I guess related to that is do you think you have the product in getting the message where you want it where you're going to have a pretty good ROI from this incremental ad spend that you're talking about particularly in the next half of the year? Yes the advertising levels as you pointed out are pretty robust and especially relative to other Simple Meals.
But it's not just the level of advertising it's the quality.
It's the messaging and it's the news.
And so if you think about certain amount of advertising on the base business to remind consumers to buy the product because it's not necessarily top of mind all the time.
But then you couple that with the innovation we're going to continue to bring to the marketplace and using the advertising lever to communicate that news and excitement we believe that over time that's the best way to build the business.
Research Division</strong> I guess what I'm really getting at here is with your core business the volume has been going the wrong way for a few years.
I think folks are wrestling with is this a company that is sort of over-earning until they stabilize that business? And what that reinvestment needs to be is that is it fair to think that you need to spend a lot more to get that stabilized? That's where I'm really going -- getting at there with that question.
Yes we know that we can advertise the business for a longer period of time in the year than we have been in the past and that's part of what we're correcting this year.
We do think that where we're arriving is the right level coupled with the innovation we're going to be bringing to market.
Our next question comes from Eric Serotta with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wondering whether you could provide a little bit more detail as to what changes second half versus first half in terms of the RTS business.
I realize that the comps get easier but you were down pretty significantly against some comparisons that were not that great in the first half.
Craig mentioned that you have some room or some flexibility to adjust price points but you're not going to do anything aggressive.
Why should that get materially better in the second half versus the first half? We do know what -- we do know in the second quarter this year that the list price increases coupled with the higher promotion price points created price gaps that were too wide.
And so we've worked to adjust those.
And we do know that we didn't have enough promotion frequency in the first half and so we're working on that as well.
And so with those insights we believe with some modifications we'll have a better outcome on RTS.
The other thing is we were very heavily discounting RTS last year in the base and we're cycling that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And within RTS could you talk about which brands were sort of your primary problem areas? Is it still Select Harvest or is Chunky seeing some weakness as well and also trends in the microwave platform which your competitor effectively walked away from? We had weakness sort of across the spectrum there Eric in microwavable and Select Harvest and in Chunky.
One bright spot was the introduction of Slow Kettle has been pretty well hitting its marks so that was a positive.
But honestly RTS was weak across the portfolio.
And we do believe that some of the benefits in condensed came at the expense of some RTS.
Our final question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just wanted to focus on U.S.
Beverages.
Are you seeing any moderation? And obviously it's still competitive but are you seeing any moderation in the competitive conditions there? And then as you look out across the balance of the year how do you feel about the sustainability of the type of top line growth that we saw in that segment during the quarter? Yes I'm not expecting that beverage competition will get any easier.
But that said for the investments that we've made in our beverage business our products are up in sales and they've grown share in an immensely competitive category.
So we're going to continue to run our play.
Where we do think things will improve is in the profitability as the inflation that we've experienced in the first half starts to abate as we cycle the second half.
Research Division</strong> And very quick follow-up.
Any initial thoughts on sort of the consumer receptivity to the Smoothie launch? Very good.
I mean we're very encouraged by the results of that launch.
Very very early days.
Very early but good.
Before we conclude our second quarter call let me leave you with a few thoughts.
We continue to advance our 3 growth strategies this quarter.
Our U.S.
Soup profits improved which is important to us.
Australia biscuits are regaining their footing.
On the other hand while U.S.
Beverage sales increased profits were down significantly.
So we have some more work to do but the first half served only to reinforce our conviction that brand building and innovation are what is required to deliver the profitable sales growth we want and that has our undivided attention.
The important point is that we're committed to building a different company at Campbell's a company that creates value by driving sustainable profitable net sales growth.
And we're focused on executing our growth strategies and have plans to improve our performance in the second half with increased advertising and consumer spending new product innovations in U.S.
Simple Meals Beverages and Global Bake Snacks a stronger promotional calendar in Australia and we also expect inflation to abate in U.S.
Beverages.
And as we said last July implementing our new strategic direction will require substantial investment to fund a radically different innovation process and to reinvigorate consumer-focused brand building.
Thanks again for joining us today and have a nice holiday weekend.
And with that Jennifer will now conclude our call.
Thanks Denise and thanks everyone for your participation on our second quarter earnings webcast.
As a reminder a replay will be available beginning in approximately 2 hours.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call my colleague Anthony Sanzio at (856) 968-4390.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
This concludes today's program.
Have a great 3-day weekend and you may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you Sean.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance.
Denise will kick us off today with a strategic update followed by comments on our results for the third quarter.
Craig will give you his overview of the quarter and first 9 months as well as our expectations for fiscal 2012.
Then after we take your questions Denise will wrap up the call with a few closing remarks.
Before we go over the usual reminders we'd like to invite all of our listeners to join our webcast next week on Wednesday May 30 at 8 a.m.
Eastern Time.
We'll be webcasting Denise Morrison's presentation at the Sanford Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference in New York.
Today as usual we've created slides to accompany our quarterly earnings presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to Slide 3 in our presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements.
Because our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as noted by SEC rules you'll see on Slide 4 we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying the presentation.
These slides as well as our earnings release and selected quarterly financial data also can be found on our website.
And with that I'll turn the call over to Denise.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Campbell's Third Quarter Conference Call.
Nine months into our transition we remain confident and focused on executing our strategic plan and improving our performance across our 3 broad categories: simple meals baked snacks and healthy beverages.
We are making significant investments in our brands and developing a meaningful innovation pipeline to satisfy both our loyal core consumers and to capture the taste buds of new ones.
Before I became CEO last August the Campbell leadership team examined the fundamentals of our entire company.
We challenged the conventional thinking about our businesses and our strategies.
The strategic framework we put in place at the beginning of this year is the foundation on which we build our growth plans.
This was not a simple course correction.
We are building a business for the long term.
This morning I will provide my perspective on our execution as we continue to advance our 3 growth strategies.
As many of you know those strategies are: stabilize and then profitably grow North America Soup and Simple Meals; expand our international presence; and continue to drive growth in healthy beverages and baked snacks.
Under our new strategic framework we have placed the consumer at the center of everything we do.
In the quarter consumers continue to be pressured particularly in developed markets.
This is the new reality we face.
The story is a familiar one.
Trips to stores are down and dollars per trip are down impacting the performance of food sales across the industry.
In fact many center store categories particularly in the grocery channel are facing significant growth challenges.
Consumers are making different choices including where they shop what they purchase and how tightly they manage their food budgets.
Our overarching goal is to delight consumers with tasty affordable nourishing convenient food and do it their way.
Our consumer insights and understanding of key trends around culinary taste wellness technology and globalization are having a profound impact on how we approach our business.
These insights are fueling our innovation pipeline for fiscal 2013 and beyond.
In terms of brand building we recognize that optimizing all of the drivers of demand will look different for each of our businesses depending upon the consumer customer and competitive situation.
In our U.S.
Soup business this means having the right combination of drivers including advertising and consumer promotion product quality differentiated positioning of our brands the right price value trade promotion and finally distribution channels and placement on shelf.
Getting this right on our base business and executing with excellence is foundational to our growth.
On top of a stable base business the innovation agenda that we have set in motion will accelerate our growth over time.
This quarter we significantly increased our long-term brand-building efforts across most of our businesses with advertising and consumer promotion up 13%.
As we announced in July we targeted $100 million in new brand-building and innovation initiatives this year.
This investment is critical for our future growth and we are on track to spend that $100 million on new product launches brand-building R&amp;D funding our innovation teams and emerging markets.
At CAGNY we shared some of the initial innovations resulting from this investment.
We now have 52 new products going to market that we’ll start to ship in quarter 4.
Customers have responded favorably to the new products that we have planned.
Although we had executed against our new initiative spending our total advertising and consumer spending for the year is not as high as we originally planned due to our ongoing management of base spending in a tougher environment.
For example we have shifted some marketing expense to trade promotion in our Global Baking and Snacking businesses to address competitive issues.
Excluding currency our total sales growth in the quarter was 1% compared to a year ago which is also an improvement versus the first half.
U.S.
Beverages led the way with a 5% increase driven by market share gains and new product introductions.
Global Baking and Snacking sales increased 2% led by Pepperidge Farm.
Organic sales rose 2% in International Simple Meals and Beverages and North America Foodservice sales were comparable with last year.
U.S.
Simple Meals declined 2%.
As we anticipated our pullback in trade spending and price realization in a competitive arena had an impact on our sales of U.S.
Soup.
Having said that I am not happy with our U.S.
Soup performance this quarter.
I know we can do better.
We continue to review all aspects of the U.S.
Soup business and anticipate making further execution adjustments based on new insights.
The U.S.
Simple Meals business is meeting our profit expectations but is not yet delivering top line growth.
In another part of the world we continue to struggle in Australia with a difficult consumer and customer environment.
We reiterated our guidance for F'12 today.
The guidance reflects the strategic transition we are making and our investments in brand-building and innovation to change our top line trajectory.
It also reflects the headwinds we are facing in the U.S.
and Australia.
We will be near the low end of our guidance range for sales and adjusted EBIT and near the high end of the range for adjusted EPS.
Bigger picture we are establishing the foundation to drive long-term growth at Campbell.
With that I'll turn the call over to Craig for his analysis of our financial results and expectations.
Thanks Denise and good morning.
I'll spend a few minutes to review our third quarter results and segment highlights and I'll follow that with a recap of our year-to-date results and finish by briefly discussing our full year guidance.
For the quarter we reported net sales of $1.8 billion comparable to the third quarter of 2011.
Excluding the impact of currency organic net sales increased by 1%.
We recognized some additional restructuring charges in connection with the program that we announced last June.
Excluding that impact operating earnings decreased 13% this quarter to $268 million.
This was primarily due to cost inflation increased marketing investment and lower volume partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
On a segment basis sales gains in Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Beverages were offset by declines in U.S.
Simple Meals and International Simple Meals and Beverages.
Operating earnings were down across all of our segments.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.56 this quarter a 2% decline as compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Earnings per share benefited from a lower tax rate at fewer shares outstanding mostly offsetting the lower EBIT.
In the third quarter our reported net sales were comparable to the prior year.
Organic sales increased by 1%.
You'll note that the detail on Chart 15 does not add due to rounding.
As you can see on the chart the increase in pricing of 3 points was offset by the negative impact of increased promotional spending of 2 points and a decrease in volume and mix of 1 point.
The majority of the pricing gains have come from our list price actions in U.S.
Soup and in our Baking and Snacking segment taken to partly offset the impact of inflation.
The promotional spending variance reflects the higher rates of spending in our Baking and Snacking business.
Our gross margin declined from 40.4% in the third quarter of 2011 to 38.8% in the current quarter a decrease of 160 basis points.
The decline was primarily due to cost inflation increased promotional spending and unfavorable mix partially offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
Overall our inflation rate and cost of goods sold was about 6% for the quarter.
Our gross margin performance is below our own earlier expectations primarily due to higher rates of promotional spending in our Baking and Snacking segment.
The negative mix impact reflects our lower margin segments outperforming our higher margin segments.
Our marketing and selling expenses increased by 5% to $256 million compared with $243 million in the prior year primarily due to higher advertising and consumer promotion expenses partially offset by lower selling expense.
In the third quarter advertising and consumer promotion expense increased by 13% reflecting brand building investments across most of our businesses.
Most notably we significantly increased advertising in our U.S.
Simple Meals segment accounting for more than 1/2 of this increase.
Administrative expenses decreased $4 million to $144 million primarily due to the benefit of cost savings from restructuring initiatives.
As I noted earlier adjusted EBIT declined 13% for the quarter.
Below that line net interest expense increased 13% an increase of $3 million reflecting a higher proportion of fixed-rate debt in the portfolio.
The adjusted tax rate declined by 8.2 points to 26.1% from 34.3% in the prior year due to lower taxes on foreign earnings associated with revised dividend projections.
Reflecting the lower tax rate adjusted net earnings were down just 4%.
Adjusted earnings per share declined 2% benefiting from a 2% decrease in diluted shares outstanding.
Third quarter segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on Slide 18.
U.S.
Simple Meals sales declined 2% driven by declines in U.S.
Soup.
U.S.
Soup sales fell 3% this quarter as lower volumes were only partially offset by higher selling prices.
Within U.S.
Simple Meals sales of U.S.
Sauces were comparable to the third quarter of 2011 with Prego pasta sauce achieving a 3% volume-driven sales gain benefiting from increased advertising support and new items.
Sales of Pace Mexican sauce were comparable to prior year while other simple meal brands declined.
Global Baking and Snacking segment sales increased by 2% driven by growth in Pepperidge Farm.
Pepperidge Farm sales increased primarily driven by double-digit growth in Goldfish Snack Crackers partially offset by declines in bakery and cookie products.
Sales in Arnott's were comparable to prior year as strong growth in Indonesia was offset by a decline in Australia driven by increased promotional spending.
Within the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment organic sales increased 2% as higher sales in Canada Europe and Latin America were partly offset by lower sales in the Asia-Pacific region.
In Europe sales increased due to volume-driven gains in France partially offset by lower sales in Germany.
And in the Asia-Pacific region sales decreased primarily due to declines in Australian soup partially offset by growth in Japan and Malaysia.
U.S.
Beverages sales which continue to outpace the category increased 5% versus prior year.
Sales increased primarily driven by double-digit growth in V8 Splash beverages and gains in V8 V-Fusion beverages.
Sales in the quarter benefited from a range of new products including V8 V-Fusion Smoothies V8 V-Fusion Sparkling Flavors and energy drinks.
Sales at North America Foodservice were comparable to prior year as volume-driven gains in fresh chilled soup sold at retail were offset by declines in frozen and canned soup.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals decreased by 14% to $120 million this quarter.
This decline reflected lower earnings in both U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Sauces.
Within the segment lower volumes cost inflation and increased advertising and consumer promotion expenses were partly offset by higher selling price and productivity improvements.
I mentioned higher selling prices in U.S.
Simple Meals.
Recall that we took a 5% increase across U.S.
Soup in June 2011 due to significant inflation.
We expect continued inflation although at a more moderate level in soup input cost for this next year.
Consequently we're taking another list price increase in June of 2012.
The 5% list price increase applies only to condensed soup.
Earnings within Global Baking and Snacking declined by 11% reflecting decreases in both Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm.
The decrease in earnings was primarily due to the decline in gross margin percentage driven by cost inflation and promotional spending partly offset by higher selling prices.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages were down 17% primarily due to the impact of cost inflation increased promotional spending and higher advertising partly offset by volume gains.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings declined by 10% primarily due to lower earnings in the Asia-Pacific region.
Operating earnings within North American Foodservice decreased by $2 million or 9% versus the prior year.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter decreased 3%.
Within soup sales of condensed soup decreased 5% with declines in both cooking and eating varieties.
RTS sales decreased by 1% reflecting declines in microwavable soup partly offset by the sales from the launch of Campbell's Slow Kettle soups.
Canned RTS soup sales were comparable to a year ago.
Broth sales declined 4% as the decline in canned products were partly offset by the introduction of Swanson Flavor Boost concentrated broth.
The U.S.
wet soup market share results for the latest 52 weeks based on IRI data and internal company estimates is shown here on Slide 22.
Campbell's market share declined 2.3 points to 59.6%.
The change was driven by ready-to-serve soup and ready-to-serve other branded players and private label had market share gains.
Our U.S.
Soup dollar sales declined 3.6% while overall category sales were unchanged in dollars over the past 52 weeks.
We underperformed the category as a result of our reduction in promotions and our list price increase among other factors.
Other branded players increased sales by 7.9% in the period while private label sales rose 1.8%.
For the first 9 months reported net sales were comparable to prior year.
Excluding the impact of currency organic net sales decreased by 1%.
Excluding items impacting comparability adjusted EBIT of $1 billion was down 8% versus a year ago.
This decrease was primarily due to cost inflation lower volumes and increased promotional spending partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity gains.
Adjusted EPS declined 4% less -- by 4% which was only about 1/2 of the EBIT decline as we continue to benefit from our share repurchase program.
Diluted shares outstanding fell by 3%.
Below the operating profit line net interest expense fell 5% or $4 million to $81 million.
This decline was primarily driven by lower rates on our long-term debt portfolio.
The adjusted tax rate for the first 9 months of the year increased 10 basis points to 31.2%.
We expect the full year tax rate to be between 31% and 32% similar to last year.
For the first 9 months net earnings declined 7%.
And benefiting from a 3% reduction in diluted shares outstanding EPS declined 4% to $2.03.
Cash flow from operations was $838 million compared to $858 million in the prior year period.
The decline reflected the impact of lower earnings partly offset by lower cash payments associated with pension and other benefit plans.
Capital expenditures of $173 million were up from $133 million a year ago.
For the year we continue to forecast capital spending of approximately $325 million.
During the first 9 months of the year we utilized our positive cash flow to repurchase 8.3 million shares at a cost of $272 million under our strategic share repurchase program announced in June of 2011 and our practice of buying back shares to offset those issued under our equity-based compensation programs.
Net debt was $2.4 billion a decrease of $282 million.
As noted this morning in the earnings release we expect net sales growth of between 0% and 2%; a decline in adjusted EBIT of between 9% and 7%; and a decline in adjusted EPS of between 7% and 5% putting the adjusted EPS in the range of $2.35 to $2.42.
We expect improved sales performance and increased investment in brand-building and innovation in the fourth quarter.
Based on these estimates we expect to achieve our guidance with sales and adjusted EBIT near the lower end of the range and adjusted EPS benefiting from a favorable tax rate near the upper end of the range.
As previously mentioned we expect the full year tax rate to be between 31% and 32%.
Thank you.
At this time we'll conduct the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Sean? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ed Aaron of RBC Capital.
LLC Research Division</strong> Maybe just to start on the soup business wanted to ask about the decision to take price on condensed but not on ready-to-serve.
Is it -- is that maybe an indication that you feel like you've kind of gone too far this past year to try to better separate the relative pricing between condensed and ready-to-serve? Ed yes.
We believe that the list price increase that we took on ready-to-serve coupled with the pullback on trade spending was enough this year and that increasing the price on that particular line of soup next year was not prudent.
That said we believe there is still pricing power on our condensed line.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just as a kind of a general follow-up to the soup business.
I mean Denise do you feel like looking at kind of where you are year-to-date that -- you have this plan to stabilize and then grow the soup business.
Do you think you've kind of hit the point of stabilization yet? Or do you think it's premature to kind of claim victory on that? We have just hit the point of stabilization.
I wouldn't declare victory yet but we are largely where we expected to be year-to-date despite the third quarter.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up to Ed's question.
Just in terms of the price increase in condensed soup Denise can you just talk about what the interaction between ready-to-serve and condensed soups has been I guess through the course of this year and then just how you feel or think about the price gap right now between condensed and ready-to-soup (sic) [ready-to-serve]? And I guess my question is just simply is there some risk that condensed bleeds market share to ready to soup -- ready-to-serve if you take a -- taking another price increase? Well first of all on the price increase pricing and productivity improvements must offset the inflation that we're going to experience next year so that we can invest in brand-building and innovation.
We think that's very important.
As we plan this we are not crossing any key pricing thresholds particularly on our icons.
And we anticipate to maintain the normal price gaps between ready-to-serve and condensed which would minimize the interaction between the 2 soup sub-categories.
And of course we'll watch this very closely as it plays out in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> So you feel like you're at a good point right now in terms of the way those 2 have interacted with each other.
Yes we feel that we've made significant improvements since we've pulled away from the severe price discounting that we had last year.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you in any relation to some of the new products you have come out they're more heavily focused on ready-to-serve.
There’ll be some more promotional spending behind those products next year.
Is that at all a factor in this decision on pricing between condensed and ready-to-serve? And I guess also I understand with those new products do you anticipate incremental shelf space for those products through the launch in early fiscal '13? Yes Chris let me take the last part of that question first.
Obviously we are introducing double the rate of new products that we had last year and our sales team is working right now collaboratively with retailers to make sure that we get the proper shelf space to accommodate those products.
So that's in the works and the response has been very favorable by our customers.
And we focus those new products largely on Millennials and their preferences and so that's why we have more in the RTS line of soup than in condensed.
But that said we are working on introducing some new news to condensed soup as well and we will continue to do that.
I think the price increase or the lack of a price increase on RTS doesn't have much to do with the new products.
For the most part the new products will have independent pricing decisions against them.
There'll be a few line extensions and new variety flavors in the existing RTS line but it didn't play much into the decision about price increase.
Our next question comes from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Denise and Craig I had a feeling from your previous communications that you were going to be looking at the second half of this fiscal year as more of a clear view about the momentum in your business.
Do you feel like this quarter is a pretty good judgment quarter for you as you look at your business and your brand momentum? Or do you think there was still some noise in there that we should be thinking about? I think that the momentum is better on our beverages and our baked snacks businesses and our sauce businesses.
I don't think the momentum is better on Australia.
And I think it's better than it was but it's still not all the way where we want it to be.
And in our soup business we're about where we would -- we expect it to be on a year-to-date basis.
And we are optimistic that as we introduce the new innovation going forward we'll start to pick up accelerations in our growth.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My question is regarding the effectiveness of your marketing spend especially in light of some of the issues you discussed relating to the center of store category.
So you talked about I think something like 52 new products.
I mean what are you doing differently in terms of your innovation to increase the effectiveness of your brand-building efforts? Because clearly the level of your brand-building it seems like you've taken it down on your base business.
The effect of our increased marketing support was mixed.
We had as I said much better performance in beverages baked snacks in Canada.
And I think it's fair to say that we're constantly looking at the efficiency and effectiveness of our advertising and consumer promotion.
And we also have an awareness that there are multiple drivers of demand that need to be balanced and that balance could look different based on the business.
So in our soup business we had increased advertising and consumer promotion.
However with the pullback on trade promotion and the increased price that the consumer realized we don't believe that we struck the right balance this quarter.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Craig I think you said the adjusted tax rate declined in part because of lower taxes on foreign earnings associated with revised dividend projections.
Is that correct? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> What does that mean exactly? It means that we have through a combination of cash and tax planning determined that we can forgo some of the dividend activity that we had previously planned from our foreign subsidiaries which saves us on the dividend tax rate.
And we still feel like we'll be able to hit our cash flow targets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So dividend is back to the parent not dividends to shareholders right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Denise I'm curious about your comment that the condensed soup business has pricing power right now.
And given the difficult volume environment I must admit I just don't understand quite the commitment to high margins when the business is shedding volume a little bit.
I would have thought you needed to go the other way that is take prices down to eat some margins.
Because you are earning I don't know 30% margins maybe more when the food industry average is closer to 10% 15% and your condensed volumes are heading the wrong way.
So if you could just help us understand that a little bit more.
I know we’re beating this a little bit down but I'm just curious to follow up there.
Well in looking at the categories in simple meals most of those categories have had substantial increases in prices over the past couple of years predominantly due to increases in cost inflation and we have had the same.
And we believe that we need to at least cover cost inflation between productivity and pricing so that we are able to effectively spend back in brand-building with the consumer and increasing our innovation.
And we believe that condensed soup could -- is still a very very good value relative to other simple meals in the grocery store.
And as long as we can maintain the balance of pricing and advertising and new product news we believe that the consumer will respond to that.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So in the release you highlighted some improvement in soup sales during the quarter in Canada where I believe you're moving toward a similar strategic approach of lower promotional spend higher innovation similar to what you're doing in the U.S.
Is there a clear divergence in how your soup business is performing there relative to the U.S.
or how consumers are responding to the brand-building efforts? And if so what do you think is driving that? I think in Canada they have a different balance of advertising consumer and merchandising.
And that worked very effectively for them this quarter.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess one question one follow-up kind of related to Ken's question.
I mean Denise just speaking more broadly for the industry I mean aren't we in this just kind of intractable problem of inflation and raised prices alienate the consumer to a certain extent and then try to advertise back? But it seems with volumes down across the industry that the advertising isn't doing what it's intended to do.
I think that the advertising has worked better on condensed than it has on RTS this year.
The amazing campaign has driven condensed consumption to where we planned it to be.
I think that the advertising on RTS has not been as differentiating as we thought it would be so we have to make our course corrections there.
I actually walked a store this weekend and looked at some of the different pricing on simple meals all the way from frozen entrées to cereal to perimeter offerings et cetera.
And it is astonishing how good a value our condensed soup is relative to some of those other items.
In fact we're right up there with candy bars.
So I do believe that we need to watch it in the marketplace but I really believe that it's very important that we keep advertising and promoting with the consumer and incenting them with new recipes and ideas for usage of this product.
And that's going to take money and so we need to invest that money back in the brand-building.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up Craig did you -- you talked about the inflation in the quarter.
You said you were going to have inflation next fiscal year which is again why you're raising prices on condensed.
What percent increase are you expecting for F'13? And what are the drivers of that? Because it seems as if most inputs are at least on a spot basis down year-over-year.
Yes I think you're right Eric.
I think the inflation that we're anticipating for next year will be lower than this year.
If you’ll remember we said this year would be something like 7% or 8% on input cost leading to a total inflation number of around 6%.
And we would expect a lower number for next year but probably still a number that will be ahead of the 3% or so that we look at as kind of a long-term guideline as to what we can absorb through productivity and enabler savings.
So we'll give a more precise inflation forecast as we get closer to the year but that kind of gets you in the ballpark of what our thinking is and why a price increase.
Research Division</strong> And is there something specific that's driving the 3% to 6% range? It's a little bit across the board.
We don't see any of the key inputs to the soup business that we think would be significantly down and I think we see a range of increases across both packaging and ingredient cost.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Denise I found one of your comments interesting at the outset where you said you were really reviewing all aspects of the U.S.
Soup business and to expect some further execution adjustments.
And I don’t know that sounded a little bit more like -- and I know you have obviously some change in leadership and such who will want to look at their own perspectives on this.
But it sounds like there's still the potential for some significant shifts or course corrections in the way you're at least executing in U.S.
Soup.
And I guess I just wanted to follow up on that and see -- maybe I'm reading too much into that or if I'm not if we could dig down a little bit on maybe some of the key buckets maybe of where those execution adjustments need to be or whatever you can kind of share with us at this point.
I think Andrew suffice it to say that we've been working on 2 paths.
One is really jump-starting our innovation pipeline which in Soup and Simple Meals was woefully under the average and we've been very encouraged by the progress that we're making there.
The second is really to make sure that we are leaving no stone unturned as we look at the fundamentals of our base businesses.
And so when I talk about the drivers of demand that's not only trade promotion and advertising and consumer promotion but it gets all the way into product.
It gets into offerings.
It gets into shelves.
It gets into distribution channels.
And so we are and we'll be working on our operating plans as we speak like I said looking at our base business with a lot of detail to make sure that we get the right balance of all these drivers of demands to drive growth.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay that's helpful.
I think it's a matter of I guess -- a question was asked earlier also about what did you learn so far from this soup season that either makes you think you're on track for sort of next fiscal year or whether there still needs to be a lot done.
And obviously it sounds like you're more encouraged on the new product side early days but some things obviously on the core that still needs to be sort of figured out? Well I wouldn't say that it has to be figured out.
I think we've got a good line of sight to get better results on the base business.
Our next question comes from Rob Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A question on beverages.
I think this year was supposed to be an investment year to fend off competition.
And as a result operating margins are down from 24% last year to maybe around 18% or 19% this year.
Do you think that you've achieved what you set out to do? And do you think that in fiscal '13 we could look for margins going higher? Or is this kind of like where you think margins need to be to keep growing the business? In the Beverage business we still see weak shelf stable juice category trends.
However our beverages have been performing and gaining share.
And so the beverage business has responded particularly our V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash beverages to the investment that we've made in this business.
That said we recognize that that has come at a cost.
And going forward we will strike a balance to get back to profitable growth in beverages with the momentum of new products and continued brand-building which is now in our base.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up how do you think your competition has reacted to the aggressive activities you've put into the marketplace? Has it cooled off a little bit? I wouldn't say that the grocery store in general has cooled off.
And particularly in the beverage aisle it has not cooled off.
So we expect that the industry is going to remain very competitive but we believe that we have the brand proposition to deal with that.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So at the beginning of the presentation you mentioned that consumers are shopping in new channels.
We've had some other packaged food companies say that up to maybe 5% of U.S.
sales are now coming from the dollar store channel.
Obviously other companies are a lot lot lower than that.
And we've also got companies like Heinz really trying to target those dollar kind of price points to get in there with a lot of new SKUs.
Could you just speak to what your strategy is with regard to that very fast-growing channel right now? There's no question that there has been more growth in some of the value channels this year relative to grocery.
That said we are underdeveloped in a number of those channels.
And part of our innovation pipeline is to make sure that we're developing our business across all channels so that as consumers shop different places they will find the availability of our products.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So we'd actually hear about you putting SKUs into those stores as part of the new product lineup or -- sometime soon? We offer products to all channels so -- but like I said our business tends to be more skewed towards the mainstream channels at this point.
Our next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Quickly on the spend level this year the $100 million.
I think you mentioned a couple of times that you're still on track to spend there.
You just had to make some tactical adjustments in terms of how you spent it and where you spent it.
You've got a lot of innovation coming to market next year.
Do you -- as we look at the marketing and selling expense line here at P&amp;L are you happy with where it is as a percentage of sales? Or do you think it needs to move up materially higher to support all the new launches? Well I think that what we're seeing on a year-to-date basis is that we were down on our marketing expense in first quarter as we pulled back on nonproductive marketing expense that we had in our base.
And our A&amp;C in quarter 2 was up 6%.
Our A&amp;C in quarter 3 was up 13%.
We have readied many new products to go to market.
We've shifted a lot of resources inside Campbell's to form these breakthrough innovation teams and fully staff them so that there's a pipeline even beyond F'13 being built.
So I think we've made in a short period of time -- remember this has been 9 months.
In a short period of time we've made significant progress and kept the integrity of investing that $100 million in the new initiatives that we talked about last July.
Research Division</strong> What don't we see in the P&amp;L then? Because if we look at the P&amp;L year-to-date marketing and selling expense up $3 million R&amp;D down $4 million we don't see any of it there.
Are there offsets that we just don't have visibility to? Yes.
There have been offsets in the Global Baking and Snacking businesses both in Pepperidge Farm and in Arnott's to meet competitive situations.
There has been some reallocating of marketing expense which moved to above the line and that's part of the reason why our gross margins were down.
The other thing you see on the P&amp;L within the selling and marketing line if you'll recall in the fourth quarter of last year we announced a pretty significant restructuring program.
And the benefits of that are hitting both the administrative expense line and also selling expense which sits within selling and marketing is down year-on-year.
Thanks Anthony for adding to the answer there.
Our next question comes from Rob Dickerson with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> My question is just again a little bit more focused on the balance sheet and kind of if we look at results today what's happened overall obviously in the soup business for the past few years.
I'm just trying to gauge as we look at Q4 should we be -- should we expect potentially a little bit more aggressive stance on buyback activity kind of going into Q4 next year? And I just ask the question because if I look year-over-year kind of look at the trend in your buyback activity relative to your balance sheet strength it just doesn't seem like you're buying back that much stock and I thought you would be.
Yes Rob we've typically -- well we've said and we have typically acted against the notion that the buyback program would be sort of the last piece or the lowest priority in terms of reinvestment to the extent that we can reinvest in our business our existing business that's first; and to the extent that we can find attractive external development projects that would be second.
And then we have sort of a philosophy of maintaining a pretty steady approach to payout ratio and our dividend.
And then to the extent that we have excess cash we tend to use that in our buyback program.
And that's -- I mean it's a little up and down by quarter.
But broadly across time I think that's what you would expect to see.
We are not looking to significantly change the leverage in our balance sheet one way or the other with our share repurchase program.
LLC</strong> And would that be the same for any type of potential acquisitions like you again aren’t looking to significantly change your leverage? Well I think that would then depend on the size of the acquisition the opportunity that we saw available.
So no it wouldn't necessarily be the same answer on acquisition.
Our next question comes from Erin Lash of Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I had a follow-up on the breakdown of marketing versus promotional spending.
And I know that you've been focusing on marketing spending specifically within the soup business.
But obviously you talked in this quarter about the increased promotional spending behind the Global Baking and Snacking segment.
And I was wondering if you -- what your expectations were of that spending going forward and just overall the breakdown between marketing versus promotional spending from a consolidated perspective.
Yes there isn't a single answer on the breakdown of marketing versus promotional spending.
Again each business depending upon its situation will have to strike the right balance of what that looks like going forward.
That said in our Baking and Snacking businesses as they faced more competition in the marketplace they made choices to -- we still spent advertising and consumer but they made choices to reallocate some of those funds to more competitive promotion in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> So is the promotional spending in Global Snacking and Baking more effective than its -- than in U.S.
Soup for instance? See we've been very pleased with the investment in advertising and consumer particularly on our Goldfish brand.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I know you won't give your fiscal '13 obviously earnings guidance until the fourth quarter.
I'm just wondering if there are any other let's say discrete sort of puts and takes that we should think about not quantifying but just buckets that we ought to at least think about from an expectation standpoint that affect things or you think will affect things next year one way or the other whether it's pension or obviously costs as you talk about from an inflation standpoint but other things that might be harder for us to just see at this stage that we just want to take into consideration.
Yes Andrew there are a lot of moving parts as you know and I hesitate to pull out 1 or 2 of those and get people focused on those moving parts and not on others.
I mean on pension I guess the biggest driver for everybody that has a pension plan will be the fact that discount rates are falling and so we'll have to watch that.
But I really don't want to get into shining a light on particular pieces of the puzzle this early in the game and we'll kind of continue the dialogue around F'13 at our Analyst Day in July.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Investment.
Research Division</strong> Two quick follow-ups.
The first one is on the advertising.
Craig when you laid out at CAGNY and Denise when you laid this out at CAGNY you put the pie chart up and you showed something like 25% of that $100 million to go into A&amp;C spending for the year so about $25 million.
Do you still expect to hit that? And then on slotting fees for all the new products do any of those fee expenses show up in the fourth quarter? Or will all the slotting fees really show up in F'13? To answer the second question first there's almost always some of the slotting activity that shows up in the prior year so you should expect some of the slotting expense to be in the -- that would show up in this quarter.
I think that as we think about the $100 million probably of that $100 million more than 25% of it would be in marketing by the time we get to the end of the year either marketing support of new product introduction or new product initiatives or marketing support against the brand building initiatives in some of the key areas that we have focused on this year.
Research Division</strong> So above and beyond just A&amp;C you're saying.
So I thought the chart had said $25 million to A&amp;C.
Yes and I'm saying I think more than $25 million to A&amp;C.
25% yes.
Our final question comes from Rob Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Did you Craig give an update on gross margin guidance for the year? Is it still down 100 basis points? And then as you look to fiscal '13 I know you don't want to talk about it much but to what degree does condensed volumes probably being down from the price increase impact manufacturing efficiencies? So with respect to gross margin you're right.
We have sort of pulled our gross margin expectation down as we've gone through the year.
Obviously we're able to -- against our guidance to pretty well offset that.
We're still looking at being as we said in the -- both the release and in the script we're looking to be within our guidance.
But I suppose that for the quarter we were down about 160 basis points.
And as we look forward for the full year we would expect to be down probably a little bit more than that 100 basis points at gross profit for the full year.
With respect to F'13 again I mean we're just -- we're not at the point of giving guidance for F'13 yet so we'll hold that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you think maybe down 120 for fiscal '12? That's probably closer yes.
Thanks for the questions and thanks to all of you for your attention.
In closing we've made solid progress towards reinvigorating our innovation pipeline.
We remain committed to our long-term growth strategies and we recognize the need to continually refine our execution to drive improved performance.
We firmly believe that meaningful consumer-focused innovation excellence in brand-building and expansion into high-growth segments and geographies are the recipe to maximize long-term shareholder value and create a meaningfully different Campbell over time.
With that I'll turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Denise and thank you all of you for your participation on our third quarter earnings webcast.
As a reminder a replay will be available beginning in approximately 2 hours.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call Anthony Sanzio at (856) 968-4390.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
This concludes today's program.
Have a great week and you may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Jennifer Driscoll Vice President of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Call and webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and Chief Executive Officer; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance; as well as Stephanie Varnum new Senior Manager in IR.
Denise will kick us off today with a strategic update and highlights of our results for the fourth quarter.
Craig will offer his take on the quarter the fiscal year and our expectations for fiscal 2013.
Then after we take your questions Denise will make a few closing remarks.
As usual we have created slides to accompany our earnings presentation today.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that our call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to Slide 3 in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
Since our presentation today includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and other selected quarterly financials can be found on our website as well.
And with that now let me turn the call over to Denise.
Good morning.
Thanks for joining Campbell's Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
1 year into our strategic transition we have planted the seeds to return Campbell to sustainable profitable net sales growth.
As we stated at our recent Analyst Day our transition is taking us longer than we anticipated.
However we are starting to see some green shoots that indicate the direction of Campbell is changing.
We declared 2012 as a year of investment.
Over the last year we've made significant investments in brand building innovation and external development.
We've also upgraded talent in key positions and changed our organization structure to build capabilities in innovation marketing excellence digital and external development.
We are working diligently to evolve our culture and to leverage our high employee engagement for higher performance.
This takes time and we will not rest until we have hit our stride.
This morning I'll offer my perspective about our progress as we execute our 3 growth strategies: first stabilize and profitably grow North America Soup and Simple Meals; second expand our international presence; and third continue to drive growth in healthy beverages and baked snacks.
Finally we are folding Bolthouse Farms into Campbell.
As we said we will operate it as a separate business unit within the company.
A year ago we expected that in fiscal 2013 we would return to growth levels consistent with our long-term targets on our core business.
As we said at our analyst meeting in July we expect the core business to return to growth this year but will not get all the way there due to a tougher environment than originally expected.
The 2013 guidance we issued this morning reflects improvement of our core Campbell business and is inclusive of Bolthouse Farms.
All of us at Campbell's agree that the pace of our progress needs to accelerate.
At the same time we remain focused and energized by our new strategic direction.
We are confident that the course we've charted positions Campbell for long-term success and we are committed to creating shareholder value by driving sustainable profitable net sales growth.
According to McKinsey's global economic intelligence growth across the globe continued to falter in the last quarter.
The only significant departure from this trend was in the United States where in spite of lethargic growth overall employment consumer spending and housing markets took a positive turn.
In contrast Europe is almost in a recession with much work remaining to address the fundamental imbalances fueling the 3-year long crisis.
This environment is not for the faint of heart.
Looking at the food industry in the United States across all outlets consumers made 4% fewer trips to buy groceries in the fourth quarter and purchased less per trip contributing to a 1% decline in food dollar sales.
Cost inflation has driven significant pricing to the consumer which tends to put pressure on volumes.
Our take on these trends is that the consumer continues to be cautious and that is not likely to change in the near future.
However we continue to believe that consumer-focused innovation value offerings and strong marketing of powerful brands can and will drive growth and that is precisely what we're focused on.
With that as context let me now offer my perspective on Campbell's fourth quarter results.
Our fourth quarter performance was overall in line with our expectations.
Sales of $1.6 billion were steady with last year's quarter despite pressure from currency.
Our adjusted EBIT declined due to the marketing investments we made and higher inflation.
We've had success with new product offerings in our beverage business.
We've profitably grown our core U.S.
Soup and Simple Meal business and significantly stepped up innovation in Simple Meals and our Goldfish franchise has delivered exceptional growth again in this quarter.
In the fourth quarter favorable contributions from below-the-line items enabled us to deliver full year adjusted EPS that was slightly better than our guidance.
In our U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals business fourth quarter sales growth of 7% fueled a 3% increase in the segment's operating earnings.
Most of the sales gain was driven by promotional timing with key retailers.
Fourth quarter sales of condensed soup rose 14% driven by strong levels of promotional activity and a 5% price increase.
We now have lapped the list price increase in ready-to-serve soups that we took in the fourth quarter of 2011 and stabilization in volumes contributed to the 1% RTS gain in the quarter as did increased distribution in the club channel.
Both our U.S.
Broth and U.S.
Sauce businesses had positive sales gains.
For the full year we met sales expectations on our important U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals business.
We feel good about the progress we made this past year on new product development.
In fact new Simple Meals products developed using our enhanced consumer-driven innovation process began to ship in quarter 4.
In fiscal 2013 we plan to introduce more than 50 new products in U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals up from 41 in fiscal 2012 and a dramatic increase from the 7 products we introduced in fiscal 2011.
Among them are Campbell's Go! Soups Campbell's Skillet Sauces Campbell's Gourmet Bisques and new varieties of Chunky and Slow Kettle soups.
Retailer acceptance of our new products targeted largely to the Millenials has been extremely positive and we look forward to the consumer response as they buy them and try them.
In Global Baking and Snacking organic sales rose 2% driven by Pepperidge Farm.
Increased marketing investments drove double-digit growth in Goldfish crackers.
In our Australian business we continue to see pressure from consumer spending and an overall challenging environment.
I just returned from a trip from Australia and despite the difficulties in that market in 2012 we continued to make investments in brand building and innovation and we expect to show improved result in 2013.
In U.S.
Beverages we continued our top line growth with sales up 3% outpacing the category.
The strongest gains came from V8 Splash and V8 V-Fusion.
New items contributed to our market share gains.
We successfully launched V8 V-Fusion Smoothies Energy Sparkling and Kids drinks this year and we're developing new advertising that we think will improve their performance going forward.
Now as we begin the new fiscal year we're confident that we will improve our sales and earnings trends.
Our confidence goes beyond the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms and extends to the new products we're launching the productivity gains we plan to make the innovation pipeline that we will continue to build and a very focused set of initiatives aimed at optimizing all of the drivers of demand.
Today we establish specific growth ranges for fiscal 2013 sales adjusted EBIT and adjusted EPS.
This guidance reflects improved trends in the core business as well as contributions from our acquisition of Bolthouse Farms which we acquired at the start of our fiscal first quarter.
And now I'll turn it over to Craig for the financial review.
Thank you Denise.
Good morning.
I'll spend a few minutes reviewing our fourth quarter results and segment highlights followed by a recap of our fiscal year results.
And I'll conclude with our fiscal 2013 guidance.
For the quarter we reported net sales of $1.6 billion comparable to a year ago.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of currency organic net sales increased by 3%.
On August 6 we completed the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms for $1.55 billion subject to customary purchase price adjustments.
In the fourth quarter we recorded pre-tax transaction cost of $5 million or $0.01 per share related to the acquisition.
Excluding that impact as well as the restructuring charges recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 adjusted EBIT decreased by 10% to $208 million primarily due to the decline in the gross margin percentage and higher marketing expenses partly offset by an increase in sales volume.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.41 this quarter a 5% decline as compared with the fourth quarter of 2011.
The decline reflected lower EBIT partially offset by the benefits for lower tax rate and fewer shares outstanding.
In the fourth quarter our reported net sales were comparable to the prior year.
A 3-point gain in organic sales was offset by a 3-point decline from currency translation as the Australian dollar the euro and the Canadian dollar have all weakened.
As you can see on Slide #18 the growth in organic sales reflected volume mix and pricing contributions of 6 points partly offset by the negative impact of increased promotional spending of 3 points.
All of our reporting segments had positive volume and mix.
We also enjoyed the benefit of inflation-driven pricing actions the majority of which came from 2 segments: Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Simple Meals.
The promotional spending variance is primarily due to higher rates of spending in Global Baking and Snacking.
As we've mentioned we continue to invest to remain competitive and to protect our market positions at both Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm.
Our gross margin declined 130 basis points this quarter from 39.8% to 38.5%.
Cost inflation and increased promotional spending drove that decline which was partly offset by productivity improvements and the margin benefit of higher selling prices.
Overall our inflation rate and cost of sales was about 5% in the quarter.
As we expected inflation was slightly lower in the second half than in the first.
Our marketing and selling expenses increased 5% to $206 million compared with $196 million in the prior year.
The rise reflected a 6% increase in advertising and consumer promotion expenses higher spending to support innovation efforts and higher selling expense partly offset by a decline due to currency.
The increase in advertising and consumer promotion expense was driven by our U.S.
Simple Meals segment with increases in both U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Sauces.
Administrative expense was $170 million for the quarter which was comparable to a year ago.
Below the operating earnings line net interest expense fell $1 million or 4%.
The adjusted tax rate declined 2.4 points to 30.1% from 32.5% in the prior year due to lower taxes on foreign earnings in the current year.
Adjusted net earnings declined 8% this quarter and adjusted earnings per share declined by 5%.
Adjusted EPS benefited from a 2% decrease in diluted shares outstanding.
Fourth quarter segment sales results and corresponding organic growth rates are shown on Slide 21.
Global Baking and Snacking organic sales increased 2% driven by Pepperidge Farm growth.
Pepperidge Farm sales increased primarily from double-digit growth in Goldfish snack crackers partially offset by sales reduction in cookies and frozen products.
Sales in Arnott's were comparable to prior year as strong growth in Indonesia was offset by declines in Australia.
U.S.
Simple Meals sales increased 7% led by a strong performance in U.S.
Soup and growth in U.S.
Sauces.
The driver of a 9% gain in U.S.
Soup sales was condensed soup which benefited from movements in retailer inventory associated with the timing of promotional activity as well as modest consumption increases.
U.S.
Sauce sales increased 4%.
Sales of both Prego pasta sauce and Pace Mexican sauces achieved higher volumes benefiting from an effective marketing campaign.
Within the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment organic sales increased by 1%.
Higher sales in Latin America primarily from beverage products were partly offset by declines in Canada while sales in Europe and the Asia Pacific region were both comparable to the year-ago period.
In Europe volume-driven gains in France were offset by lower sales in Germany.
In the Asia Pacific region sales growth in Japan and Malaysia was offset by declines in our Australian Soup business.
U.S.
Beverage sales which continued to outpace the category increased 3% versus prior year.
The increase was primarily driven by double-digit growth in V8 Splash beverages and gains in V8 V-Fusion beverages partly offset by declines in V8 vegetable juice.
Sales of V8 V-Fusion in the quarter benefited from the launch of new products including smoothies energy sparkling and kids drinks.
Sales of North American Foodservice decreased 2% due to declines in canned soup sales.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals rose by 3% to $104 million for the quarter.
This increase reflected earnings gains in U.S.
Soup partly offset by a decline in U.S.
Sauces.
Within the segment higher sales volume was partly offset by a decline in gross margin percentage and increased advertising expense.
Earnings within Global Baking and Snacking declined 10% reflecting lower earnings in Arnott's partly offset by growth in Pepperidge Farm.
For the segment the decrease in earnings was primarily due to increased promotional spending and cost inflation partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages decreased by 17% despite higher sales volume primarily due to an increase in marketing expense and a decline in gross margin percentage related to cost inflation.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings declined 38% reflecting lower earnings in Canada and increased marketing investment in Latin America.
For the international segment the decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to cost inflation and increased promotional spending partly offset by higher selling prices.
Operating earnings within North American Foodservice decreased by $6 million or 38% versus prior year.
The decrease was primarily due to increased promotional spending and cost inflation.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter rose 9%.
Sales of condensed soup increased 14% with double-digit growth in eating varieties and gains in cooking varieties.
Condensed soups sales benefited from movements in retailer inventory levels.
Estimated inventories were lower when we began the quarter compared with the year-ago level and ended higher than the prior year's quarter largely in support of in-store promotional activities.
Condensed soups sales also benefited from consumption increases.
Ready-to-serve sales increased by 1%.
Sales of Campbell Chunky soups rose slightly while sales of Campbell's Select Harvest soups declined.
Campbell's Slow Kettle Soups which we launched in July 2011 added to the sales growth.
Broth sales grew 4% primarily due to volume-driven gains in aseptically-packaged broths and the benefit of the July 2011 launch of Swanson Flavor Boost concentrated broth partly offset by declines in canned broth.
The U.S.
wet soup market share results from the latest 52 weeks based on IRI multi-outlet data is shown on Slide 25.
Note that in prior quarters our market share figures covered the food drug and mass retailer channels and were based on IRI data as well as internal company estimates.
This new data which we plan to use going forward has been expanded by IRI and now includes food drug mass military and most dollar and club stores.
We estimate that this more comprehensive consumption data covers approximately 80% of our U.S.
retail sales and the report no longer includes any adjustment based on internal estimates.
Overall Campbell performance in the new IRI retail universe is similar to that with the previous data set Based on the new data Campbell's market share declined on a 52-week basis by 2.4 points to 58.9%.
The change was primarily driven by ready-to-serve soup.
In ready-to-serve soup other branded players had market share gains.
Our U.S.
Soup dollar sales declined 2.9% while the overall category rose 1.1% over the past 52 weeks.
We underperformed the category as a result of our reduction and promotions and our list price increase among other factors.
Other branded players increased sales by 10% in the period while private label sales rose 2.1%.
Next I'll move to an overview of full year results.
For the year both reported or organic net sales were comparable to the prior year excluding items impacting comparability in both years adjusted EBIT of $1.2 billion declined 9% versus a year ago.
The decrease was primarily due to decline in gross margin percentage.
Both sales and EBIT results were consistent with our annual guidance.
Adjusted EBIT -- I'm sorry adjusted EPS declined 4%.
We continued to benefit from using our strong cash flows to repurchase shares.
Organic net sales in fiscal 2012 were comparable to the prior year.
As you can see on Chart 27 higher selling prices were offset by price -- by pressure from volume mix and the negative sales impact of our increased promotional spending.
Our fiscal 2012 gross margin declined by 140 basis points to 38.8% from 40.2%.
This decline was due to cost inflation increased promotional spending and unfavorable mix partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
The inflation rate and cost of goods sold was approximately 6% which was above our long-term average yet at the low end of our expectations for the year.
Marketing and selling expenses increased $13 million to $1.02 billion primarily due to a 3% increase in advertising and consumer promotion expenses.
As we mentioned at Analyst Day we're now breaking out our full year advertising and consumer promotion expense.
For the fiscal year advertising and consumer promotion expense increased by $14 million to $506 million.
Administrative expense for the year decreased $1 million to $611 million versus $612 million last year.
Below the operating line net interest expense fell 5% or $5 million to $106 million.
This decline was primarily driven by lower rates on our long-term debt portfolio.
The adjusted tax rate for the fiscal year decreased 50 basis points to 31%.
For the fiscal year adjusted net earnings declined 7% and after benefiting from a 3% reduction in diluted shares outstanding adjusted EPS declined 4% to $2.44.
For the fiscal year U.S.
Simple Meals sales declined 1% reflecting a 2% decrease in U.S.
Soup partly offset by sales growth in U.S.
Sauces.
Sales of U.S.
Sauces increased slightly as gains in Prego pasta sauce were mostly offset by lower sales of Pace Mexican sauce and declines in other Simple Meal products.
Organic sales of the Global Baking and Snacking segment increased 1% versus prior year as growth in Pepperidge Farm was partly offset by declines in Arnott's.
Pepperidge Farm sales increased primarily due to double-digit growth in Goldfish snack crackers partly offset by declines in cookie and frozen products.
Arnott's performance was impacted by a difficult trading environment in Australia.
As a result Arnott's sales declined for the year reflecting an increase in promotional spending that was not successful in increasing total sales.
Within the International Simple Meals and Beverage segment organic sales declined 2% primarily due to lower sales in Canada Europe and the Asia-Pacific region partly offset by gains in Latin America.
U.S.
Beverage sales increased 2% of sales of both V8 Splash beverages and V8 V-Fusion beverages rose while sales of V-8 vegetable juice declined.
Within the segment volume gains were partially offset by the impact of higher promotional spending.
Sales of the North American Foodservice segment increased 3% primarily driven by volume-driven gains in fresh chilled soup sold at retail.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals increased $1 million to $658 million versus the prior year reflecting earnings gains in U.S.
Soup that were mostly offset by lower earnings in U.S.
Sauce.
For the segment higher selling prices productivity improvement and lower promotional spending were largely offset by volume declines and cost inflation.
Earnings within Global Baking and Snacking declined by 11% primarily due to cost inflation increased promotional spending and higher advertising partly offset by higher selling prices and productivity improvements.
International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings declined by 17% primarily due to lower earnings in the Asia-Pacific region and Canada as well as increased costs associated with the company's marketing expansion in China.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages declined by 26% primarily due to inflation and the cost of juice concentrates and packaging materials increased promotional spending and higher advertising expense.
Operating earnings in North American Foodservice increased by 4% primarily driven by higher selling prices and productivity improvements partially offset by cost inflation.
U.S.
Soup sales for the fiscal year declined by 2%.
As you can see on Chart 32 a 7-point decline in ready-to-serve soup was only partially offset by a 1-point increase in condensed soup and a 3-point increase in broth sales.
The 1-point increase in condensed soup was driven by gains in eating varieties while cooking varieties were even with the prior year.
The 7-point decline in RTS reflected lower volumes the result of higher promoted and non-promoted price points at retail offset by the positive impact of the Slow Kettle launch.
The increase in broth sales was primarily driven by volume gains and new item launches.
Cash flow from operations was strong at $1.12 billion.
This $20 million decline compared with last year reflected the impact of lower cash earnings partly offset by lower pension contributions.
Capital expenditures of $323 million were in line with our full year expectations and were up from the $272 million of a year ago.
Looking ahead we are forecasting capital spending in fiscal 2013 of approximately $330 million including Bolthouse.
During the fiscal year we utilized our positive cash flow to repurchase 12.6 million shares at a cost of $412 million under our strategic share repurchase program announced in June 2011 and our practice of buying back shares to offset those issued under our equity-based compensation programs.
Net debt was $2 455 000 000 a decrease of $145 million.
For fiscal 2013 Campbell expects to grow total company sales between 10% and 12% with adjusted EBIT growth of 4% to 6% and adjusted EPS growth of 3% to 5%.
Within these ranges currency is expected to be neutral to slightly negative.
We expect interest expense to increase approximately $30 million primarily due to the acquisition financing and we expect the tax rate to be between 31% and 32%.
We expect our gross margin percentage to decline approximately 1 to 2 points primarily due to the addition of Bolthouse which operates with a lower margin structure.
Gross margin on our base business is expected to be comparable to 2012 as we anticipate that our pricing actions and productivity savings will mostly offset the impact of 4% cost inflation.
We also expect our operating margin to decline slightly in 2013 primarily due to the impact of Bolthouse.
As we mentioned in July our expectation for fiscal 2013 includes a modest reduction in advertising and consumer spending for the year notably in U.S.
Soup.
Thus we expect our marketing expense will decline slightly on our base business for next year.
However these savings will be offset by some upward pressure on SG&amp;A from a 30% increase in pension expense among other factors.
The acquisition of Bolthouse Farms was completed in the first quarter as I said for $1.55 billion plus the impact of purchase price adjustments.
We financed that purchase with debt.
Our fiscal 2013 guidance includes the estimated impact of the Bolthouse Farms acquisition while excluding the impact of onetime transaction costs.
We expect Bolthouse to contribute approximately $750 million to sales which is about 10 points of sales growth for total Campbell.
Bolthouse will drive most of our growth in adjusted EBIT and it will add $0.05 to $0.07 to our adjusted EPS including the estimated impact of purchase accounting and the suspension of our strategic share repurchase plan.
Thank you.
With that I'll now turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Craig.
At this time we will conduct the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Driscoll from Citi Investments.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a little bit about the organic revenue growth within your F '13 guidance.
So I believe that Bolthouse -- Craig I think you said that it will add 10 points of revenue growth such that organic revenue would be just 0% to 2% within your guidance range.
Given that Campbell's is accelerating the new product introductions with -- I think you actually went from 47 to 50 on the slides so you're now showing 50 new products planned for F '13 and that Campbell's will realize price increases in F '13 partially because of the inflationary pressures.
Why is organic revenue growth so low? Why isn't it going to be something a lot better than 0% to 2%? Well David I think we continue to see some headwinds from the consumer environment.
As we've also said we're going to lower our advertising spend in the U.S.
Soup business.
While we think that has good payback to it it will have a negative impact on our sales number in U.S.
Soup for the year.
And it's -- I would point out that we are anticipating an improvement versus our prior year organic sales with all of that in.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just one follow-up on that then.
Can you quantify the fourth quarter buy-in on condensed soup? I believe there's a 5% price increase in the fourth quarter for condensed and that the retailers bought in ahead of that hence the significant growth in condensed.
Will that -- I assume that that negatively hits volumes in 1Q '13 but can you give us some quantification of what the magnitude you expect to happen in the first quarter? It is very difficult to precisely quantify.
I think though one thing that's important it's not so much the impact of the buy-in prior to price increase as it is that we had pretty significant consumer promotion activity going on at the end of the quarter which caused some increase in inventories in-store.
We expect to see that sell-through.
But you're right there could be a little bit of overhang into Q1.
Yes I mean the -- what we saw was a normal situation around our price increase and actually coming into our F '13 a reasonable inventory level.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Denise excluding Bolthouse you've grown or you intend to grow EPS this year by 1% to 2% which is obviously quite a bit away from the 5% to 7% long-term target.
How quickly do you think can you get to that long-term target? And what needs to happen for you to get there? We recognize that the EPS will represent an improvement in trend on the base business but won't get us all the way there.
We're not really disclosing a time frame that we will get there but we're just giving guidance for the entire business inclusive of Bolthouse Farms.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Then maybe asked differently at the Analyst Day and today again you've reiterated that the growth rate that you're looking at for 2013 isn't quite what you expected last year.
How much worse is the growth rate for this year than what you expected when you put out your strategic plan last year? I think Thilo we talked about a return to our long-term targets which is 3% to 4% sales 4% to 5% EBIT and 5% to 7% EPS.
Right.
And I think that the delivery this year was in line with the guidance that we gave in July 2011.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick point of clarification.
What sort of cash contribution do you expect to make towards your pensions this year? Yes.
We expect that to total about $85 million on a consolidated basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And any expectations around the possibility of refinancing your December maturity? Or should we continue to see that paid down? I think you can assume we'll pay that down.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> You had mentioned I think some positive consumption or take-away in condensed even when you exclude the inventory adjustments that you discussed.
So while it's a small quarter overall I'm just trying to get a sense if you can glean anything in the data that you have.
I guess that makes you either incrementally more or less comfortable that the pricing you're taking in condensed can be done with kind of manageable impacts on volume.
We -- Andrew first of all we have seen some positive consumption across Soup particularly on condensed soup and that's encouraging.
We do feel that the price increase that we took will result in a reasonable increase in the retail price on the shelf to the consumer.
However we are planning for some volume impact due to that price increase.
So that we're expecting that there'll be some pros and cons as we go into next year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then with condensed in the quarter up as much as it was I guess I would've thought the mix impact would have benefited gross margins in the U.S.
Simple Meals segment more than it did.
Was there something else offsetting that in that segment that you can clarify? Yes.
You're probably seeing a little bit of the promotional spending associated with the retailer activity.
Our next question comes from Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Sticking on the topic of promotions in Soup I imagine a lot of your merchandising plans for the early part of the soup season are locked and loaded now.
With that said any expectation of recovering some of the loss merchandising support you ceded to your competitor last year? Well as you know a couple of years ago we had engaged in some pretty deep discounting in the category that we walked away from last year in an effort to spend more and invest more in brand building.
We believe going into this season we will have spending against an optimized driver of demand which is inclusive of promotions and advertising and consumer promotions.
So we think that we're working this season in a much more balanced way.
Research Division</strong> So Denise should I interpret that to mean sort of comparable levels to last year? That last year is sort of the new base to look at? Yes yes that's correct.
Research Division</strong> And real quick on innovation.
Can you update us -- you said successful acceptance by retailer.
In terms of net distribution have you been able to secure some of the net distribution gain in Soup? Or has it been primarily a swap for other items? Yes.
It's still early days Jason but we are on track with our new products broadly.
And our -- the retailers have accepted the products and it's been very positive.
So we expect that that momentum will continue and the proof is what will the consumer do.
So we'll be given an early read on that next quarter.
So it will be a distribution gain but it's too early to quantify.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question maybe to Craig on the outlook in terms of the EBIT growth versus the EPS growth.
How much of a -- I think you said there's some headwind from interest expense on Bolthouse.
And then you've also got -- which way on an operating basis is the tax rate swinging? And then is there any kind of net benefit of the shares year-to-year? I'm just trying to kind of judge the difference between the 4 to 6 versus the 3 to 5 because it would seem that that might be more of a gap.
Right.
The -- so the tax rate might be slightly negative.
The bigger impact is interest and also the cessation of our share repurchase program.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But Craig are you following me to the extent that okay tax rate is slightly negative.
Interest expense is a clear negative.
You're not going to have the benefit of the shares so why wouldn't the difference between EBIT and EPS growth be let's say more negative? So there is a carryover benefit on shares so we stopped the share repurchase program.
But because we bought throughout the year in F '12 there's a carryover benefit in the share count and that's a -- that's a slight positive and that's partially offsetting the interest expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then I'm sorry if I could just follow up real quickly on Arnott's.
I think you said that Australia continued to be challenged but that was offset by I guess some export business to -- whether it was Indonesia or Malaysia or someplace.
But why shouldn't we still be pretty worried about Australia and Arnott's given how profitable that business is? Just one clarification.
We have businesses in both Malaysia and Indonesia.
We have production facilities in both those places so -- and both those businesses did well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
I think -- I just came back from Australia and had extensive meetings with the team and the customers there.
And I think the consumer environment is still challenged.
The consumers' savings rate is probably one of the highest it's ever been and there is some concern over that.
However the team has recognized that this is an environment that we have to play in probably for a while.
And so the joint business plans that we've been able to work with in the marketplace are very encouraging.
And so we -- during F '12 we actually continued to invest in brand building and the innovation pipeline so we believe that we have strong plans going into 2013 that hopefully adjust to the situation.
Research Division</strong> Is that one of the reasons -- is Arnott's in Australia one of the reasons why you're being a little bit more cautious on the guidance including sales which I think was one of Dave Driscoll's questions? I think that's part of it.
I think the other is we've been pretty conservative on our estimates for our new product innovation.
The consumer will let us know if we can be more exuberant.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask you a question in relation to marketing and the 3% increase that we saw for the year.
I just wanted to confirm -- we've talked about this in previous quarters.
But that obviously was up pretty nicely for Soup but just down -- and was it down in all other divisions from there? I'm just trying to understand kind of the magnitude of the shift that occurred across the divisions.
Yes.
So Chris the primary increases would have been against our sauce business against our adult cracker business within Pepperidge Farm and against our beverage business in North America.
Those would have been the sources of most significant increases.
There would've been increases in some of our emerging marketing businesses too.
But those are pretty small relative to the total.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just to understand then for fiscal '13 that increase then -- I'm sorry that I think you said a slight decline from marketing.
Is that -- was that just the U.S.
Soup or was that for the overall company? The decline -- well it will be  a decline for the overall company that is driven by a decline in U.S.
Soup primarily.
For the overall company though our total marketing which will be advertising consumer and trade promotion will be about average with the industry.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
If I could just ask a follow-up then.
In relation to -- just to be clear on the new product shipments where there -- there were some in the fourth quarter.
I'm just curious if that was an incremental benefit year-over-year to the revenue growth in Q4? Yes but not very materially.
Yes.
A small amount shipped for some shelf stuff with retailers that did their planogramming in the fourth quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So most of that will come really then Q1 which we're in now.
Correct.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to ask a question on condensed.
There's -- there have been some issues I think with excess capacity on the private label side in that business.
And I'm just wondering when you think about that in the context of price increases that you're taking for this year are you at all concerned that the price gaps in that part of the business are going to widen in fiscal '13? I think that we will always watch price gaps versus private label and competition.
Private label in the Soup business has traditionally been about 10 points below the average so we're not expecting that this would be a huge factor.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just one quick clarification.
I think you said in your prepared remarks that Bolthouse is going to drive most of the EBIT growth in fiscal '13.
But I think just doing kind of some math on it it looks like Bolthouse should drive more than all of the EBIT growth.
So I'm just trying to make sure that I'm understanding that correctly.
If you look at the base business implied in the guidance it's about flat at EBIT slightly up but pretty close to flat.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I'll follow up on that but I'll take it off line.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Craig just wanted to get a little bit more color on your outlook for cost of goods inflation for this year.
And I think going back to what you said in July it looks like the range is the same but I just want to make sure.
Has anything really changed in terms of the cost inflation outlook you're using today versus what you said in July? So the F '13 outlook for input materials packaging and energy is around 3% and the total inflation assumption for cost of sales is around 4% for F '13.
Research Division</strong> And the difference between the 3% and the 4% is you've got some higher like pension expense and health care costs.
Is that it? Precisely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are you still -- if I remembered it correctly you were expecting net of productivity the inflation would be closer to 0% to 2%.
Is that still the case? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just in terms of the way it phases anything that we should think about in terms of first half versus second half? No I don't think so.
I mean we'll keep updating you through the year but there's no significant difference I don't think as we look across the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just finally how much of it is locked in for the year versus might be subject to volatility? We tend to average being out about 6 months.
We may be a little bit longer than that right now given the way that the commodity markets have moved but you should think of us generally as being about 6 months out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just sneak one in on -- in the same theme.
Just all of the pricing -- you've priced fully to all of your inflation expectation like there's not incremental pricing action you'd need at this point.
Well I -- we're not going to announce future pricing activity at this point.
But yes what we said at Analyst Day and what is still true is that between the pricing we have already announced in the Soup business and the productivity savings that we're expecting we're pretty well covering off the cost inflation.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Feeney from Janney Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit with Craig.
You said it was difficult to quantify the retailer inventory on what you mentioned some impact on the Soup Sauces and Beverages volume.
How much visibility do you have into that inventory? And like I mean is it -- do you expect those levels to grow significantly with a lot of this new product activity in the coming quarter? The thing that's difficult about it Jonathan is that there's a tremendous seasonality to our inventory movements anyway.
So the fourth quarter always sees an inventory decline in total versus the third quarter.
And what we saw this year was that both the starting point a little bit lower than the previous year ending point a little bit higher but all in the context of decreasing inventories.
In the first quarter we almost always see an inventory increase.
And so trying to quantify what the net impact of that will be is just difficult on big inventory numbers.
If we look at the warehouse inventory levels that we have visibility to they were very normal for the fourth quarter.
The in-store inventory was somewhat higher than normal at the end of the fourth quarter because of the promotional activity that we've talked about and that's what created a pretty big swing in a pretty small quarter.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So operating earnings if I'm looking at Page 31 I think it is on the slide deck it looks as though outside of U.S.
Simple Meals and Foodservice you've obviously had a big decline in operating earnings across some of these segments here in fiscal '12.
And I think a lot of that was due to competitive dynamics and cost pressures and so on.
For those segments where we have seen a major decline are we through the worst here? Where are the bright spots in terms of what could get a lot better in fiscal '13? And where are things still very tough from a profit growth perspective? Yes.
For example in the beverage business next year we'll have a combination of both price and productivity improvements that will lead to an improved EBIT situation there.
We also are expecting some lower commodity costs and some stronger enablers that will kick in about the middle of the year.
But we have plans on most of the businesses to work the EBIT line.
Our next question comes from Rob Moskow from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> 2 questions.
One is I don't know if you answered why retailers were promoting condensed during the summer.
I mean it was the hottest summer in history.
And then secondly getting back to Ed Aaron's question the math I had on Bolthouse was that operating profit was running at about $92 million on an adjusted basis.
I have assumed maybe $100 million of a contribution for fiscal '13.
And if I do it that way I get core EBIT down like 2% to 4%.
And I just wondered if that has anything to do with the mix shift away from Soup in fiscal '13 as you lower advertising and you probably have a sales decline.
Yes.
So well first with respect to promotional activity I think it's back-to-school promotional activity that we're seeing which is in some cases getting earlier in the year than it has been.
But I think that's the answer to that one.
With respect to Bolthouse you have to recognize that versus the historical numbers that you've seen for Bolthouse there is asset write-up as part of purchase accounting that will lead to higher depreciation that they've had historically.
There's both an accounting change and some retention bonus kind of activity that we have in the compensation expense related to Bolthouse.
And then there are certain items that are related to Bolthouse that actually fall into the Campbell P&amp;L as part of the integration of Bolthouse.
So I think all of those things are leading you to over-impute operating earnings to Bolthouse.
The reality is that the base business EBIT organic growth is around flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as far as like maybe Soup being down a little bit does that have more of an adverse effect on profit being down? Or is it about the same? If sales of Soup were down one maybe profit for the overall business would be down one? Well Soup contribution particularly in condensed is higher.
It's -- I think it's pretty well understood it's higher than the company total.
But I -- you're looking at some fairly small movements here.
I don't think -- if you come back and think about it margin right we've said gross margins would be pretty comparable on the base business to prior year and really the same thing is true at operating profit too.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question.
Craig higher grain costs are those going to influence your Pepperidge Farm and Arnott business at all? Or is it all in the guidance? Well it's in the guidance.
I mean they do influence it of course.
There is pressure more at Pepperidge than at Arnott's given the 2 fairly distinct grain markets that we're talking about.
But it is anticipated in the guidance that we would have pressure at Pepperidge.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on Soup.
I just wanted to get a better sense of how you're currently thinking about the scale of the various new ready-to-serve products being shipped in fiscal '13.
For items like Go! Soups and Gourmet Bisques are your goals to reach I guess a similar level of ACV to what we saw for Slow Kettle in 2012? And one quick follow-up.
With respect to slotting fees can you give us a sense of whether you incurred anything material in the fourth quarter and whether we should expect a more significant impact here to be concentrated in Q1 or Q2? Yes.
We had planned for Slow Kettle to reach a lower ACV distribution than it actually did achieve.
And we're planning for our new Go! Soups Bisques and Skillet Sauces to reach an average amount of ACV distribution that we have seen in the past.
And so far that seems to be the case.
Yes.
So slotting fees for this year's fourth quarter were up about $6 million versus prior year same quarter.
And you should not expect a significant difference in Q1 related to slotting fees.
Our next question comes from David Palmer from UBS.
Research Division</strong> 2 quick follow-ups on other questions.
On the marketing spend going to be a little bit lower year-over-year for fiscal '13.
One might have assumed that new product news would necessitate and even respond to higher levels of advertising.
Is Campbell thinking about shifting some ad weight away from imagery ads such as the "Amazing what soup can do" ads that are more general and product -- and category broad in terms of its support levels and towards more awareness new product launch type ads? Is that some of the thinking? Yes.
Well our marketing expense will be down modestly versus this year.
And our A&amp;C expense will be down due to reduced spending on our U.S.
Soup but we will be more than competitive in our share of voice on that business.
For our new products the marketing support will vary but it will have a mix of TV print digital and promotional vehicles each at competitive levels.
And that's how we have planned the year.
If they tend to take off in a bigger way we will subsequently increase the investment.
Overall spending on new product support will be up David so the decrease is related to the base.
Research Division</strong> And then just also a follow-up on the timing of the shelving of your various new products.
Are you fully distributed now for what you think you're going to have out there not just the new packaging like the Go! Soups but also the repackaging of your Light soups? I mean are you where you think you'll be in a few months' time? Are you pretty much re-shelved at this point? Most of the items have really just started shipping.
We've shipped some in the fourth quarter and some in -- have been shipping in August.
So it usually takes about 3 to 4 weeks to get through the system to be totally on shelf before we actually start the marketing around them.
And with respect to Select Harvest and 100% Natural that's going to take place over a period of time [indiscernible] October and November.
Right.
That will be a flow-through exactly.
Our next question comes from Erin Lash from Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious.
Obviously cash flow continues to be very solid and while you still are well focused appears to be paying down the debt related to the Bolthouse acquisition.
I just wanted to get a sense for your appetite for additional acquisitions going forward either in your core category or expanding your platforms further in international markets.
So I think we said both at Analyst Day and also when we did the call on Bolthouse that while we're suspending our share repurchase we're not suspending our activities to continue to look for good value-accretive acquisition targets or partnership opportunities or JV opportunities where they make sense.
We do feel like we've still got some capacity within our balance sheet and so we continue to try to advance our strategies by looking for those kinds of opportunities.
Now having said that they're few and far between out there and we're very rigorous in the way that we evaluate them.
But we have not -- we haven't stopped looking.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask one follow-up? With regards to your comment that they're few and far between is that because the premiums that sellers are looking for are too high? Or is that just the potential for -- or the potential quality companies that are out there is small in and of itself? Well I think it's both things interacting with each other right? There just numerically there are not a lot of good quality properties.
And consequently when one does come to market it tend -- there tends to be pretty strong competition for it.
And we're very disciplined about the way we're going at this.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Denise you mentioned new products.
You're being -- I interpret what you said as being conservative in terms of what you're modeling for new product contribution to sales growth.
Can you give us a sense of what you are expecting and so we can judge whether it's conservative or not? It's early days and again we just started shipping.
So as the year unfolds we'll have an early read in quarter 1.
And then in quarter 2 we should have a much better read on the consumer acceptance of these products and the consumption resulting from that.
So I'd rather wait until that point in time than speculate.
Okay.
With that we will conclude our Q&amp;A session and we'll move over to Denise for the wrap-up.
Thank you for your questions.
And we'd like to leave you with 4 key takeaways from today's call: first we reported positive organic sales growth this quarter and finished the year with sales and EBIT consistent with the guidance we gave in July 2011 and EPS slightly ahead of that guidance; second we told you that for fiscal 2013 we expect 10% to 12% sales growth 4% to 6% growth from adjusted EBIT and 3% to 5% growth in EPS including the impact of Bolthouse Farms; third we plan to continue investing in new product innovation and brand building to optimize all of the drivers of demand; and fourth we remain excited about the addition of Bolthouse Farms which offers a growth platform in the faster-growing packaged fresh category and increased scale in healthy beverages.
We've made progress for those strategies in fiscal 2012 and while clearly we have more work to do we believe that the strategies we outlined to you a little over a year ago are starting to gain traction.
We look forward to giving you an update on our execution of the strategies next quarter including the early read on this year's new product launches.
Thank you very much for your support of Campbell's in fiscal 2012 and we look forward to seeing many of you at the Barclays Back-to-School Conference in Boston on Wednesday and Thursday.
Thanks for joining us for Campbell's Fourth Quarter Earnings webcast.
Replays are going to be available in approximately 2 hours by dialing 1 (855) 859-2056 or 1 (404) 537-3406 with the passcode of 21752010.
If you are a reporter and have follow-up questions please call Anthony Sanzio at (856) 968-4390.
Investors and analysts may call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
With that we will conclude today's program and you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect at this time.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the first quarter earnings call and webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance; as well as Stephanie Varnum Senior Manager in Investor Relations.
Denise will kick us off today with a strategic update a few thoughts on Hurricane Sandy the highlights of our results for the first quarter and a few comments on the year.
Then Craig will offer his take on the quarter including our segment results and then our guidance.
After we take your questions Denise will make a few closing remarks.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to Slide 3 in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements that we might make.
As you know Campbell completed the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms on August 6 1 week into the quarter.
The acquisition is now included in our results and it drove most of the year-over-year changes in the first quarter.
The quarter also includes $10 million in transaction costs related to the acquisition which are included in our reported results.
In September 27 we announced a $115-million restructuring program designed to improve our U.S.
supply chain cost structure.
Our first quarter reported results reflect $43 million of costs associated with that restructuring program.
Our remarks today for the balance of our presentation will be on an adjusted basis including Bolthouse Farms' operating results for 12 of the 13 weeks of the quarter but excluding the transaction costs and the restructuring charges.
Since our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the mostly -- most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly financials also can be found on our website and one other place.
One last item.
To make it easier for our iPad and iPhone users to follow Campbell we've made available to you in the Apple App Store and Google Play Market a new app for viewing Campbell news releases SEC filings and more on smaller screens.
You need to have iTunes installed but the cost is reasonable 0.
Just search for "Campbell IR." We'd love to get your input on your experience with it as we continue to be interested in improving the way we communicate with you.
And with that now let me turn the call over to Denise.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for Campbell's first quarter earnings call.
A few months ago I marked a year as the CEO of this great company.
We have committed ourselves to focus forward relentlessly on a new strategic vision that is centered on driving sustainable profitable net sales growth.
Our 3 growth strategies are focused on accelerating the momentum of our existing businesses and extending our platforms into new higher-growth segments and geographies.
We are working diligently to be a more agile and innovative company that is resolutely focused on the consumer a company that better satisfies the needs of our core baby boomer consumers and is also responsive to new consumer needs to demographic and generational change to the increased demand for fresh foods to the explosion of digital and social media and to the evolving global culture of food.
We know we are witnessing major shifts in the drivers of consumer choice.
And at Campbell our rallying cry is "consumer first." We recently added some wonderful new talent to our senior leadership team.
Mike Senackerib was appointed Campbell's first Chief Marketing Officer.
Mike will work to build our brand and product equities globally and enhance our marketing capabilities particularly in the digital space.
We also announced that Luca Mignini will be our new President of International.
Luca has deep experience in Asia Latin America and Europe and will lead the expansion of our international footprint in faster-growing categories and in faster-growing geographies.
We are not yet a different company but we are thinking very differently about Campbell's future than we did a year ago.
In fiscal 2013 we told you that we expect to return to growth in our base business.
The addition of Bolthouse Farms will contribute to both our top line and our bottom line growth.
And we are acutely aware of the work we must do now to deliver our long-term sales and earnings targets on a sustainable basis.
Before I talk about our results for the first quarter I would like to make a few comments about Hurricane Sandy.
First to everyone on this call who was affected by the storm or whose family was affected please know that our thoughts are with you and with all that are working to restore ravaged communities.
Our world headquarters in New Jersey and Pepperidge Farm in Connecticut were closed for 2 days.
Many of our employees suffered property damage and were displaced due to loss of power.
Scores of residents in our local communities still have needs for food clothing and shelter.
I am very proud of the many Campbell employees who stepped up to volunteer.
In addition to making financial contributions to the Red Cross the New Jersey governor's relief fund and the special United Way Hurricane Fund we have shipped products to numerous food banks and relief organizations.
During the storm we supported our customers with extra merchandise and hurricane pallets.
Our Pepperidge Farm distributors were in stores 24/7 replenishing bread and snacks.
And we did see a very small benefit in soup during the last few days of October but it was not material to the quarter.
This is not about business.
It's about people.
And in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy I saw what I have seen many times before that the special quality of the Campbell Soup Company is its heart.
Turning now to business.
This morning I'll offer my perspective on our progress as we execute our 3 growth strategies: to stabilize and profitably grow North America soup and Simple Meals expand our international presence and grow faster in healthy beverages and baked snacks.
Our new fiscal year is off to a solid start and we're encouraged by the progress we've made on advancing our growth strategies.
Our U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals business delivered solid results with sales up 3% and operating earnings up 5% as we continued to optimize execution across all of the drivers of consumer demand.
In the quarter we reduced advertising spending according to the plans we outlined at our analyst meeting in July.
Our advertising spending remained at competitive levels as we continued to run our effective "It's Amazing What Soup Can Do" campaign for condensed soup and introduced new advertising for Campbell Chunky RTS Soup.
That campaign returns Chunky to its NFL roots with Victor Cruz of the New York Giants demonstrating that Chunky fills you up right.
Ready-to-serve soups condensed cooking soups and broth all performed well in the quarter.
We also successfully executed our previously announced price increase on condensed soup.
It's too early to judge our breakthrough innovation particularly our Campbell's Go soups and Campbell's Skillet Sauces but these launches are showing good retail acceptance.
This is the start of strategic innovation platforms for Campbell that we will build over time.
These products are outcomes of a reengineered innovation process to accelerate our speed to market.
They feature contemporary packaging and offer new global tastes aimed at attracting new consumers or serving new occasions.
As I've stated before customers have been very supportive of these new products and the many innovations in our base business.
We introduced more than 50 new products this year in U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals up from 3 just 3 years ago.
While we continue to make important strides in U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals we are not breaking out the champagne yet.
We are encouraged but we have more work to do on this large and important business.
Bolthouse Farms had a very good quarter with growth in all 3 of its categories: beverages salad dressings and carrots.
The new beverage products introduced last spring including Coffee Protein PLUS Orange and Carrot and fresh nog -- yes without the egg -- are all achieving distribution targets.
As we stated we are operating Bolthouse Farms as a separate business unit and our integration of corporate services such as finance and legal is on track.
Pepperidge Farm had positive sales in the crackers business driven by Goldfish and new Jingos! partly offset by declines in cookies and bakery.
We did have a strong October with solid plans going forward for the holidays.
Be on the lookout for Goldfish Finn and Friends in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade.
Our business in Asia Pacific returned to growth this quarter with Australia stabilizing and Indonesia posting double-digit sales gains.
In Australia a refocus on core brands and better joint business plans with our customers have helped results despite a challenging retail and consumer environment.
In international we continued to enjoy momentum in emerging markets with sales gains in Malaysia and Mexico.
Parts of our business continued to present challenges in quarter one.
U.S.
Beverage sales declined 5%.
Despite easing inflation we did not return to EBIT growth.
We are rebalancing our consumer marketing towards the base V8 Red and V8 V-Fusion business introducing new advertising and prioritizing our innovation on the highest-potential product platforms: energy and kids juice boxes.
We do have positive momentum on V8 Splash.
In North America Foodservice our retail fresh soups grew while our traditional foodservice business did not.
In addition Europe had subpar performance albeit in a difficult environment.
Notwithstanding some challenges overall our quarter one results have enabled us to reaffirm our annual guidance of net sales growth plus 10% to 12%; adjusted EBIT growth plus 4% to 6%; and adjusted EPS growth plus 3% to 5%.
As we've stated before we anticipate returning to positive organic growth on the base business but expect to be below our long-term targets this year.
Now I'll turn it over to Craig for a discussion of our segment results.
Thanks Denise.
Good morning everybody.
I'll spend a few minutes discussing our first quarter results and segment highlights followed by comments on our full year sales and earnings guidance.
As Jennifer referenced my discussion results will exclude the impact of the restructuring charge as well as transaction costs associated with the Bolthouse Farms acquisition.
So for the quarter we reported net sales of $2.3 billion an 8% increase from the first quarter of 2012.
Excluding the impact of currency and the Bolthouse Farms acquisition organic net sales increased by 1% in the quarter.
Excluding restructuring costs and acquisition transaction costs adjusted EBIT increased 5% to $438 million.
Of the adjusted EBIT increase 3 points came from adding Bolthouse and 2 points came from growth in the base business primarily driven by U.S.
Simple Meals.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.88 this quarter a 7% increase from the first quarter of 2012.
On Slide 22 you see the Bolthouse Farms -- you see that Bolthouse Farms contributed 8 points to sales growth while currency subtracted 1 point due to the euro weakening against the U.S.
dollar.
Organic sales increased 1% as pricing contributed 2 points and promotional spending subtracted 1 point.
The pricing gains reflected increases on condensed soup in the U.S.
and across our baking and snacking segment.
The promotional spending variance was primarily related to Global Baking and Snacking.
We continued to invest to remain competitive in our Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm businesses.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 160 basis points to 37.9% from 39.5%.
The decline was primarily attributable to the impact of the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms which operates at a lower gross margin structure.
The inflation rate in cost of goods sold was approximately 4% which is in line with our expectation for the full year.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased 3% to $254 million.
Advertising and consumer promotion expense declined by 15%.
The primary cause of the declines was our planned reduction in advertising and consumer promotion expenses in the U.S.
Soup business partly offset by the impact of adding Bolthouse Farms.
Although U.S.
Soup advertising and consumer promotion expenses declined compared with the prior year we are maintaining competitive levels of support on the base business while investing behind our new launches.
Administrative expenses for the quarter increased by $17 million due to adding Bolthouse and incurring higher compensation and benefit cost including the expected increases in pension expense.
Below the operating earning lines net interest expense increased 18% or $5 million.
The increase was due to a higher level of debt to fund the acquisition of Bolthouse partly offset by lower rates on the debt portfolio.
The adjusted tax rate declined by 60 basis points to 31.6% from 32.2% in the prior year due to the favorable settlement of a U.S.
state tax matter.
With the lower tax rate offsetting increased interest expense adjusted net earnings increased 5% this quarter.
Adjusted earnings per share benefited from fewer shares outstanding and grew by 7%.
First quarter segment sales and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on the next slide.
Sales of U.S.
Simple Meals increased by 3% with gains in both U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Sauces.
U.S.
Soup sales rose 2% driven by gains in broth and ready-to-serve soup partially offset by a decline in condensed soup.
U.S.
Sauce sales grew 4% primarily driven by strong gains in Prego pasta sauce the launch of Campbell's Skillet Sauces and the growth of Mexican -- of Pace Mexican sauce.
These gains were partly offset by lower sales of gravy.
Global Baking and Snacking sales increased by 1% fueled by gains in Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
Pepperidge Farm sales increased on the strength of another solid quarter of growth in Goldfish snack crackers and by the launch of Jingos! Pepperidge had sales declines in cookies and bakery.
Sales in Arnott's increased primarily due to double-digit gains in Indonesia.
Biscuit sales in Australia were comparable to the prior year.
Organic sales for International Simple Meals and Beverages increased by 2%.
Higher sales in the Asia Pacific region Latin America and Canada were partially offset by declines in Europe.
In Canada higher selling prices contributed to sales growth; and in Europe lower sales in Germany were partially offset by higher sales in France.
In Asia Pacific sales increased due to the strong growth in Japan and Malaysia.
Our Bolthouse Farms and foodservice reporting segment now includes the recently acquired Bolthouse business along with North American Foodservice which had been recorded separately.
Of the segment's $323 million in sales for the quarter Bolthouse contributed $171 million.
Organic sales excluding the acquisition and currency impact declined by 6%.
This decrease in North American Foodservice sales was primarily due to declines in frozen and canned soup sales partially offset by volume-driven gains in fresh chilled soups sold at retail.
U.S.
Beverages sales decreased by 5% in the quarter.
The decrease was due to declines in V8 vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion beverages partially offset by an increase in V8 Splash.
The decrease in V8 Fusion -- V8 V-Fusion was primarily due to declines in the existing base business partially offset by growth in new products including energy drinks and juice boxes.
Operating earnings for Simple Meals rose by 5% to $274 million this quarter.
The increase reflects earnings gains in U.S.
Soup partly offset by a decline in U.S.
Sauce.
Within the segment the benefits from productivity improvements; higher selling prices net of related volume impacts; and lower marketing expense were partly offset by cost inflation.
Earnings of Global Baking and Snacking declined by 3% reflecting lower earnings in both Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm.
Both businesses were negatively impacted by increased promotional spending as we continue to invest in highly competitive markets.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings increased by 9% largely driven by growth in Asia Pacific and Canada.
Earnings in Europe declined.
For the segment the increase in operating earnings was primarily driven by organic sales gains and an increase in gross margin percentage.
Operating earnings within the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment increased by 26% or $7 million.
The increase included $14 million from the addition of Bolthouse Farms and a decrease in earnings from North American Foodservice.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages were comparable to the prior year as the impact of lower volume was offset by lower advertising and consumer promotion expense.
U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter increased by 2%.
Consumer takeaway in the quarter was down about 1%.
Ready-to-serve soups and broth sales benefited from movements in customer inventory levels reflecting accelerated merchandising activity for the quarter.
Sales of condensed soup declined by 1% as declines in eating varieties were only partly offset by gains in cooking varieties.
Our pricing in response to inflation in condensed soup has not resulted in any unexpected volume pressure.
RTS soup sales increased by 4%.
Volume-driven gains in Campbell's Chunky canned soups were partially offset by declines in microwavable soups.
Campbell's Go soups launched this quarter added to the sales growth.
Broth sales grew 9% primarily due to volume-driven gains in both aseptically packaged and canned broths.
Slide 29 is a look at U.S.
retail sales of wet soup for the last 52 weeks based on SymphonyIRI multi-outlet data.
The U.S.
wet soup category rose by 0.5% in the last 52 weeks.
Campbell soup sales for the same period declined 2.7%.
This performance compares with a gain of 8.4% for other branded players and flat results for private label.
Campbell maintained a strong leadership position with a market share of 58.7% for the year.
Private label players held their share while other branded players gained share.
Cash flow from operations was $81 million compared with $73 million in the prior year period.
Capital expenditures of $41 million were up from $35 million a year ago.
For the year we continue to forecast capital spending of approximately $333 million including spending at Bolthouse Farms.
As we've previously announced we suspended the strategic share repurchase program so that we can use our cash flow to reduce the debt we incurred to finance the Bolthouse acquisition.
However we continue to repurchase sufficient shares to offset dilution from equity compensation programs.
Net debt rose to $4.1 billion an increase of $1.4 billion due to the acquisition.
This morning we confirmed our fiscal 2013 guidance.
I'd like to point out that as we look at the progression of the year we believe that the second quarter profitability could be negatively impacted by the fact that we are exiting the first quarter with high soup inventories due to strong holiday sell-in; and by a planned increase in marketing support for new products notably Campbell's Go soup and Campbell's Skillet Sauces.
As a result EPS for the second quarter is likely to lag our full year guidance growth rate.
We continue to expect to grow sales for the year between 10% and 12% with adjusted EBIT growth of 4% to 6% and adjusted EPS growth of 3% to 5%.
Within these ranges currency is expected to be neutral to slightly negative.
We expect interest expense to increase approximately $30 million primarily due to the acquisition financing and the tax rate to be between 31% and 32%.
As we mentioned we completed the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms this quarter and financed the purchase with debt.
Our guidance includes the estimated impact of the Bolthouse business and excludes the impact of onetime acquisition transaction costs and also the cost associated with our recently announced restructuring program.
We expect the acquisition to contribute approximately $750 million to sales and to add $0.05 to $0.07 to our adjusted EPS including the impact of suspending our strategic share repurchases.
Thank you.
And with that I'll turn it back to Jennifer now.
Thank you Craig.
At this time we will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
We'd like to request that callers limit themselves to one question apiece but stay on the line in case clarifications are needed.
This way we hope to respond to more callers.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to drill down a little bit on some of the commentary Craig around the inventory -- or the accelerated inventory levels.
Just want to be clear was that I guess part of the plan in your first quarter obviously to ship in a little more aggressively maybe than last year such that you're ready to go for your merchandising plans? And I guess if we were to think about the fiscal first half as opposed to just the first quarter versus the second how should we think about your expectation for soup sales maybe on that kind of a basis? Yes.
I think you're hitting it right Andrew by focusing on the first half.
The acceleration in inventory coming out of the quarter was due to our holiday sell-in for November and December.
Some retailers shipped earlier this year than last year.
We're encouraged though by the strong merchandising plans that we have and it's also been rotated amongst different brands.
So coming into the quarter we had a higher level of inventory.
We maintained that.
And so coming out of the quarter we're still at those levels.
So we just wanted to manage people's expectations for the half.
Part of it Andrew is just the calendar right? We have an earlier Thanksgiving this year and so I think retailers have just been a little bit ahead of the curve and maybe a little bit of the storm impact too which fell right at the end of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Is your hope that through the first half that we'd see soup sales in positive territory? Or is it just still -- I mean the second quarter is obviously huge from that perspective from a takeaway standpoint.
Right.
We don't forecast as you know soup sales separately but we're happy with the start that we're off to.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I wanted to ask about the A&amp;C spending in the quarter.
I guess I didn't fully appreciate how much it might be down in Q1.
Can you tell us if that was fully planned? And then as kind of a broader follow-up question to that some food companies are starting to talk about shifting A&amp;C spending back above the line just to kind of manage price points lower just given the consumer environment.
And I'm wondering if that's a dynamic that you're expecting on some level to happen with your business as well over the next few quarters.
It's true; our quarter one A&amp;C expense declined by 15% primarily due to reduced spending on U.S.
Soup and partially offset by an increase of support for new innovations.
It is in the range of the plans for the full year and we did move some money into increased promotion particularly in the bakery and the baked snacks business.
Our next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So lots of potential questions here.
Let me focus on the fresh baking business where -- which I think you said was still challenged this quarter.
It's -- the industry here in the U.S.
is in a state of flux with one of your competitors having now suspended production and distribution.
How do you think about that scenario and what the implications may be for your business going forward? Right now we are seeing in the latest 2 months some pressure and we're getting industry reports on that.
The parts of the business that are more robust are the casual dining health care and education.
But overall we're not pleased with the performance of our foodservice business this quarter.
Oh I'm sorry.
I heard you -- Jason did you say foodservice or...
Research Division</strong> Specifically I'm asking fresh bakery implications of Hostess.
Oh for TreeHouse? Hostess.
For Hostess.
The bakery business? I'm sorry.
Research Division</strong> Yes No worries.
Okay.
Well I answered another question that you might have had.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate that.
It's like a 2-for-1 special.
Okay there you go.
We're monitoring the Hostess situation.
We -- and of course our manufacturing supply chain and distributors are standing ready to ensure that customers aren't at risk for any supply interruptions caused by this.
This is a business that is continuously changing through consolidation and price discounting.
And we just feel that we're well positioned to play in this in the part of the business that we occupy right now which is more the upper end.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one more if I could sneak it in.
Bolthouse I know it's still young as part of your portfolio but it's got a unique distribution platform.
Denise can you talk to us whether it be broad strokes or hopefully as much specificity as possible in terms of your innovation plans and how you intend to leverage that? Right now it's early days but we're very pleased with the performance in all 3 categories of Bolthouse.
And some of that growth has been driven by new innovation particularly in the beverage business but also increase in distribution in the salad dressing business.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So I wanted to ask a little bit more about condensed soup and I wasn't sure if your inventory comments were more focused on one side or the other.
But on condensed soup you had in the fourth quarter I think it was -- the fourth quarter is -- it's always hard to interpret some of these quarters because they're not the same in terms of total volumes.
But it was like a 10% or double-digit growth in volumes last quarter.
And now this quarter sales are down 1%.
I don't know the volumes but is this what you're trying to lead us to where the inventories are just coming in a little bit full right now going into Q2? Yes.
So David we've actually seen a little bit of a rotation.
You're exactly right.
As we came out of the fourth quarter our condensed inventories were a little bit higher than normal.
The good news there is that we saw good sell-through on the back-to-school and other promotional activity that had created those higher inventories.
And now as we've come more into the run-up to the holiday season coming out of the first quarter the higher inventory levels are really driven more by RTS.
So you've had the rotation of inventory.
It's not the same inventory.
It's not even around the same product line.
And you've got -- consequently you've got a little bit of a mix shift issue as we've rotated out of condensed and into RTS.
But it's -- I think overall you can think about soup inventories continuing to be a little bit higher than normal as we come out of the quarter but it's more RTS and broth than it is condensed.
Research Division</strong> And one quick follow-up on some of your Bolthouse comments.
Was the profit contribution in the quarter kind of below normal? I.e.
was purchase accounting a factor here on the inventories? I've had a few questions from people on that this morning.
So yes purchase accounting it is going to be an issue and you're right to point the inventories on the first year will run off the write-up of the purchase accounting impact on inventory.
Also remember that we had one less week of Bolthouse in this first quarter than we did for the total company.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I just ask you to maybe elaborate a little bit on the weakness in the beverage segment? You mentioned slackening consumer demand.
I was a little surprised that that might be kicking in now rather than maybe earlier in the economic downturn.
Is it something to do with pricing versus other juices? Or can you tell us a little bit more about what's going on there? Yes.
The beverage category particularly the shelf-stable juice category has been under pressure for quite some time now.
And we continue to observe behavior that consumers are trading down particularly in the -- from the 100% juice businesses that we're in.
There has been some competition that's been very price aggressive that has negatively affected our V8 vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion; however our V8 Splash continues to perform very well.
And our new item innovations are continuing to contribute to sales growth but they haven't been sufficient enough to overcome the category weaknesses or the aggressive price pressures.
So what we're going to do about it is we're shoring up the core business with line extensions on V8 and improved taste.
We're also playing in value by pushing V8 Splash and then we're innovating in high-growth segments such as energy and kids.
And we think that a combination of easing inflation and productivity improvements will help us with improved EBIT for the year.
So that's how we're looking at it at this point.
Our next question comes from Matt Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Denise I just wanted to try and get some insight into how you're thinking about the promotional support you're putting behind soup during the soup season.
And if we look at the measured channel data for ready-to-serve it looks like pricing is down year-on-year in ready-to-serve in recent periods and that we -- so that's driven a fairly pronounced increase in volumes more recently.
Is that consistent with what you're seeing in your business? And is this any indication of a change in the way you're thinking about the optimal balance between innovation-driven growth and promotion over the next few months? Yes we're -- again we're optimizing all of the drivers of demand.
And in addition to product and packaging there is a merchandising factor and we're looking at each brand given its competitive set.
So in the first quarter we were very aggressive in promoting particularly our Chunky brand.
As we repositioned it we improved the label on the brand to emphasize the delicious food and the soup that eats like a meal.
We went to the NFL with Victor Cruz and so we did put some support behind that brand to get some momentum.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And would you say that was more an issue of sort of the timing of your merchandising plans? Or is that a strategy that might persist through the second quarter? Well I think you can plan on seeing aggressive merchandising plans.
Our next question comes from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just building on that last question.
In ready-to-serve it looked like you had a good last month.
The promotions were up.
Select Harvest repositioned 100% Naturals.
How is that working specifically? And then is it too early to tell how the new messaging around -- the low-fat high-protein messaging and the NFL is that gaining traction on the Chunky portfolio? Any sense there? The performance of RTS this quarter really was because of brand Chunky.
And the 100% Natural soup is flowing through to the shelf and has been down versus year ago.
And we'll continue to put the adequate support on that business as well because it is an important business to us.
It's too soon to tell on some of the new products but some of the new products that we introduced last year like Slow Kettle Slow Kettle's consumption and share are both up in the quarter and our new Flavor Boost product was down in the quarter.
However we are flowing through a new pack which we shifted from an 8-pack to a 4-pack and reduced the price to $2 to increase the trial because our repeat is very good on this product.
So we did learn a lot last year from the introduction of that product.
Research Division</strong> Is the light soup area -- is that something that you think will stabilize as the fiscal year progresses? I mean clearly where I'm getting at is that that portfolio has been repositioned a couple times and I'm wondering if you're a little bit more optimistic about this go-around.
Yes it's still -- I mean it's still a smaller part of our portfolio and we did -- we are now emphasizing the 100% Natural and it really will be up to the consumer to decide.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had 2 quick questions for you.
The first one I guess for you Denise would be just in relation to Global Baking and Snacking to understand the growth of the U.S.
business versus the international business I guess to understand how Arnott's in Australia is performing versus say Pepperidge in the U.S.
Well Pepperidge in the U.S.
grew but it was growing because of the cracker business.
Goldfish and Jingos! were up high single digits and it offset some declines in our cookie business and in our bakery business.
But we have seen better momentum in October and going into the holidays.
In Arnott's the situation is they're still competing in a difficult market.
We've seen improvements in the business we are continuing to gain share there so we are feeling better about Australia this year in the biscuit business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a quick follow-up maybe for Craig.
In relation to Bolthouse is there -- I'm just trying to think about the seasonality of the business.
Are there -- and to make sure I have this modeled properly going forward there's a little more profit this quarter than I thought is what it comes down to.
Is that a function of this quarter? Is there a seasonality factor to consider is the question.
There's a little bit of seasonality.
You didn't see it so much in this quarter because again we had one less week in the quarter than we do in the full year.
The seasonality comes from the carrot business being a little bit heavier in the second quarter.
That's partially offset by the fact that beverages are a little bit stronger in the summer.
So the business overall is less seasonal than Campbell's business so it won't have a material impact on the total company seasonality.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 questions.
One is I was kind of surprised -- and I guess we touched on it a little bit but I'm kind of surprised that the margins in U.S.
Simple Meals were slightly over 30%.
I don't remember the last time the margins were that high in the segment although I guess it's changed a little bit over time.
But is -- like obviously the lower advertising versus the higher inventory I guess is partly explaining it.
But I'm kind of wondering if you could go into a little bit more detail.
Is there the timing of inflation versus the restructuring action you took? I just -- I'm trying to get a better sense to what's making those margins so high this quarter.
So the restructuring action wouldn't have any impact in the quarter.
I think the primary thing that you're probably seeing versus prior quarter is the reduced advertising and consumer promotional expense Eric.
Yes I would just add there's a pretty significant seasonality to the profitability of the Simple Meals segment.
It ranges from 30 to as low as 20 in the other quarters.
So this is not typical...
Research Division</strong> Even year-over-year but I mean it's been a while since we've hit over 30 in that segment.
It looks like it's only up about 1 point from the prior year.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And then I guess on the Go soup product Denise are you sensing any push back on the price point? Because I guess we've seen some commentary that that might be a price point that's a little difficult for Millennials at the moment.
Is there any initial sense of that at the trade level? No we have not gotten any feedback on that and we recognize that the price is more premium than some of our other offerings.
But so far -- again it's early days.
The repeat on this item is pretty robust.
So it's all about getting consumer trial over the next several quarters but we haven't heard any push back on pricing.
Most of the ACB [ph] is now at $2.99 which we feel is a pretty good price point for that product.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Feeney with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I wanted to just think about -- I mean on the advertising the total A&amp;C spending particularly behind soup I guess I'm -- can you give us a sort of long-term target where you think that ought to work out for a business of this margin structure? We -- our long-term target and our short-term target right now is to be fully competitive and we're basing that on a variety of benchmarks such as a percent of sales and share of voice to name 2.
We think that it's really important for these brands to think about all of the drivers of demand and make sure that we are putting our spending where we're going to get the maximum impact and that could vary by brand and even by segment.
So I cited the Chunky example earlier and that seems to be working.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just follow up Denise the -- then -- yes I guess competitive is -- when you say competitive I guess are you thinking inside the soup category? Because I mean I guess one of the -- how are you framing that because when I look at -- it seems to me a lot of the potential -- the slowdown -- a potential explanation for the slowdown of the soup category period is that its leader hasn't spent enough on advertising the past 3 or 4 years and so you might be keeping up with the competition but the category as a whole maybe has suffered.
And I think the innovation helps but are you -- when you say competitive are you talking about competitive within soup or competitive broadly with spending rates in other categories as you see them? Well in the case of soup we look at both within soup and also within the broader context of the 30-plus categories that we track in Simple Meals.
And quite frankly in the U.S.
Soup business we did lower our advertising.
But in our other businesses our advertising either stayed the same or increased.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Denise just now that you're 5 quarters into this and with all of the effort that's been put into Simple Meals and soup in particular do you have a sense at this point whether you've changed -- there's been any change or been able to kind of move the change in consumer habits at home? I think as we kind of went into this over a year ago it's one thing to be able to sort of merchandise and get people to pull it off the shelf but the more important thing is to really get people to actually consume the products at home.
And I understand it's a little bit early especially with all the new products that have come out.
But how do you feel about movement that you've made or progress that you've made in that regard in terms of just getting people to actually go home and use the products? Well I think it's early days on the new products to declare victory there.
I do think that the new products are helping to create somewhat of a buzz about soup in general which is important because people don't think about it as often as they should and so that reminding them is important.
But I think we've done a good job in terms of executing at Campbell's to put some new experiences out to the market for the consumer to enjoy and particularly younger consumers to attract them into the category.
We're going to continue to build on those platforms.
This is not going to be a 1-year wonder.
So I think these are still early days but I really do believe we're on the right course here.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the signal that you're sending perhaps to retailers by perhaps cutting marketing spending on your core soups a little bit? And the reason I'm asking is there has been some conversation lately about perhaps some of your larger retailers reconsidering whether it's a great use of space to use gravity feed shelves or not.
And I'm just wondering when I talk to retailers and they think about soup whether the manufacturers are really committed to the can whether that's something that they should be committed to as well.
So can you just talk a little bit about the balance between how you think about that and maybe spending more on marketing to allay their fears or continue to drive down the spending to help your margins a bit? Yes I can.
First of all in terms of the shelving we actually have iQ Maximizers in greater than 25 000 stores.
And that seems to be servicing the consumer very well in terms of making it easier to shop and from an operations standpoint it's holding up to the retailers' standards.
So I'm not sure what the link is for shelf space that you're talking about but we have not seen an impact on shelf space at this point.
In fact with the new products that we're introducing we're having conversations to make sure that we are accommodating all of our products on the shelf and continuing to bring the retailers new and exciting things to increase their center store sales.
The second part of your question on cutting marketing we had increases in advertising and consumer in all of our categories with the exception of soup and we have not cut our total marketing.
We had expenses in advertising and consumer decline but we are spending against these products in a very competitive way.
And we were -- we're explaining that to retailers and we're getting support.
Research Division</strong> And then one quick follow-up on David Driscoll's question about Bolthouse and Foodservice margins.
Should we expect a similar decline year-on-year in that segment's margin going forward then? Yes.
So Bolthouse operates structurally at a significantly lower margin rate than the rest of the company.
I think the first quarter margin structure is probably pretty reflective of the full year for that segment now right? Research Division</strong> So somewhere around 10.5% is not unreasonable.
Yes I think that's probably about right.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> When I look at your -- at the breakdown of the soup sales so it's condensed down but ready-to-serve being up 4% and I compare that with scanner data scanner data looks much different I think in -- at least in ready-to-serve.
Why would I not think that this difference between scanner data and the data that you showed today is just driven by the channel fill and the sell-through -- channel fill within your products and the sell-through just isn't there yet? Well -- so Thilo I think we did say that we're exiting the quarter with higher inventories and that there has been some rotation in those inventories toward ready-to-serve.
So I mean I think you're right.
We saw heavier sales of both broth and ready-to-serve in the quarter than we saw consumption and it's largely associated with selling in ahead of the holiday and merchandising activity that's scheduled out over the first few weeks of November here.
So I think your reading is approximately right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But is it selling across the entire portfolio on ready-to-serve? Or is it focused on the new product? Well clearly you've got some pipeline fill on the new product but it's not just new product.
In fact it's probably heaviest in broth which as you can imagine is a big holiday item.
So it's broth it's ready-to-serve and it's the new products.
Right.
And we've also had new innovations on our base business too.
Our next question comes from Rob Moscow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just was looking at the U.S.
Beverages segment and it looks like sales will end up being flat pretty much to where they were in 2010.
So there really hasn't been any growth in this segment and profits are way down.
Can you give us a sense within that mix? I understand the strategy is to extend into more single-serve items and maybe away from core V8 Red.
Can you give us a sense of what's happened to like the core V8 Red during this time whether new products are now a bigger part of the pie? And then secondly I thought I heard that there might have to be a wait out on V8 Red during the course of this year to compensate for higher commodity costs.
And are you concerned that this would hurt volume further on the core business? No I am not -- I don't know where you heard that there'll be a wait out on V8 Red.
Right now our plan on V8 Red and we do believe that we need to call more attention to it is to improve the taste on the original V8 Red to celebrate the taste in our advertising and we have Hint of Lime and Black Pepper flavor extensions to create some news for that 100% juice offering.
And we are refocusing on our base 100% juice while we also push V8 Splash which has done very well.
But the entire category has been pretty soft for a number of quarters now.
Research Division</strong> Denise do you mean the entire vegetable juice-based category? Or do you mean...
No no no.
No the entire shelf-stable juice category particularly in the 100% juice segment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
What about noncarbonated beverages in general? Like I always thought that that was a faster growing segment of overall beverages.
Do you look at yourself in that context also? We do and that's where we have the insights around new innovation.
For example the energy and the kids segments are growing faster.
Our next question comes from Diane Geissler with Credit Agricole Securities.
Research Division</strong> I may have missed this but did you quantify the value of the buy-in ahead of the early holiday? No you didn't miss it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I know Andrew had asked about sort of first half over first half and you have guided down the second quarter so any color that you can give us to give us an idea about what the magnitude was? The only thing...
Research Division</strong> Was it an extra week of inventory 2 weeks of inventory? Was it all across your entire product line? Yes I think the best way to think about it is to look at consumption versus sales right Diane? So consumption was down 1%; sales were up.
Without forecasting the soup sales or particularly without forecasting them by quarter I think that's the best way to sort of keep tabs on where we are in sell-in versus consumption.
And the sell-in against the holiday season of course the consumption happens in another quarter.
So the good news is that we're getting good merchandising support but I do think you have to look at it on a season basis.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is just regarding the U.S.
consumer overall.
You have a pretty big footprint in the center of the store and some other companies recently have said they've seen the consumer shift back into the center of the store a little bit more recently.
Have you seen that? I mean are you seeing consumption sort of increase for food categories in the center of the store? We track the Simple Meals category.
In over 52 weeks the consumption's been up over 2% and in the last 13 it's been a little bit over 1% so it's still trailing 52 weeks.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just on marketing.
You made a -- you hired somebody to lead your marketing division.
I was just wanting to get your perspective on what this particular person adds that you didn't have per se before in your organization and how sort of links to the future sort of demand trends that you see longer term.
We have a center of excellence that works on our advertising and design our marketing excellence which is training for our people to make sure we're building skills.
Obviously with the transition of connecting with consumers through the digital space that's going to require some real focus and expertise and then being a support system for the brand management in the business unit so that there is a continuing to build on the standards of excellence for driving a growth agenda.
So we believe he'll be a really good addition in terms of focusing us there.
Okay.
So I guess we're coming up on the hour.
I apologize to any of you that we didn't get to but we're going to move to our wrap-up.
So in conclusion we'd like to leave you with some key points from today's call.
Our new fiscal year is off to a solid start and Campbell is becoming more agile more innovative and more focused on the consumer.
We've recruited some wonderful new talent in marketing and in international.
We've posted encouraging gains in U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals as we continue to optimize all the drivers of consumer demands across our key brands.
And while it's too early to judge our breakthrough innovations we firmly believe that our reengineered innovation process enhances our ability to attract new consumers and serve new occasions.
Our first quarter with Bolthouse Farms was strong and the integration is on track.
Challenges do remain in our U.S.
Beverage business but we are course correcting and expect more of a recovery in the coming quarters.
Overall we're able to reiterate our annual guidance for the year of sales growth of 10% to 12%; adjusted EBIT growth 4% to 6%; and adjusted EPS growth of 3% to 5%.
But I want to make sure that my message to you is clear we are encouraged but not satisfied.
We know what we have to do and what our opportunities are and we're clearly making progress but we're not there yet.
Hurricane Sandy reminded us that we have a lot to be thankful for here at Campbell.
Among many other things we're thankful to have leading brands to compete with; strong margins; amazing cash flow; and above all talented and dedicated employees with a lot of heart.
So we wish you and yours a very Happy Thanksgiving.
And with that Jennifer please provide the closing reminders.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate you listening to the call today.
We will have replays available.
And if we didn't get to you please give me a call at (856) 342-6081.
And with that we'll conclude our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the second quarter earnings call and webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison our President and CEO; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance; and Anna Choi the new senior manager of IR.
Welcome Anna.
Denise will kick us off today with a strategic update as well as her takeaways from our segment performance.
Craig will offer his take on the quarter our segment results and our guidance.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
Our forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to Slide 3 in the presentation or to our most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements.
Campbell completed the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms 1 week into the year.
The acquisition is now included in our results and it drove most of the year-over-year changes in the first half.
On September 27 we announced a $115 million pretax restructuring program designed to improve our U.S.
supply chain cost structure.
Our second quarter reported results reflect $42 million of pretax costs associated with that program.
Last we signed commercial agreements with 2 large companies in Mexico which we announced yesterday.
Accordingly our reported results for Q2 include a charge of $6 million pretax for that.
Our remarks today for the balance of our presentation will be on an adjusted basis including Bolthouse Farms' operating results for 25 of the 26 weeks of the first half but excluding the transaction costs and the restructuring charges.
Since our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly financial information can also be found on our website accessible by computer or with the Campbell IR app.
In both places next week you'll be able to access Campbell's presentation at the CAGNY event Consumer Analyst Group of New York event in Boca Raton Florida.
We're presenting at 10:30 a.m.
Eastern and then hosting the following luncheon.
Our presentation slides will be available afterward in an archive.
And with that let me now turn the call over to Denise Morrison.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our second quarter earnings call.
Today I will offer my perspective on our performance and discuss specific segment results highlighting what's working and areas where we face challenges.
Additionally I'll provide an overview of our breakthrough innovation efforts.
Finally I'll touch briefly upon the announcement we've made yesterday afternoon to expand our business in Mexico through access to manufacturing and distribution capabilities that we have not had before.
I'll then turn the call over to Craig Owens Campbell's Chief Financial and Chief Administrative Officer to provide details on our financial performance.
As I stated previously our goal was to drive sustainable profitable net sales growth.
We're putting the consumer first in everything we do at Campbell as we turn around this great company.
We're actively listening to consumers and engaging with them to understand their needs and we're converting our insights into action to delight both our core baby boomers and other growing consumer segments.
I'm also encouraged by the creativity and dedication of our people.
All of this is beginning to have a meaningful impact on our business.
We posted solid performance in the second quarter with net sales up 10% and adjusted net earnings up 6%.
Both net sales and EBIT are up 1% excluding Bolthouse Farms.
We achieved this growth while advancing our work on cost controls and productivity improvements across the entire company.
Our laser focus on brand building and innovation has helped drive our sales growth.
Most of our businesses performed well in the quarter.
Sales rose in U.S.
Simple Meals and in Global Baking and Snacking.
The Bolthouse Farms business continues to deliver results consistent with our acquisition plan.
For the first half with the exception of our U.S.
Beverages and North America Foodservice business our organic sales trends improved in every business relative to its results in fiscal 2012.
We are encouraged by this performance.
We believe that we are well positioned to deliver our full year guidance of net sales up 10% to 12% adjusted EBIT up 4% to 6% and adjusted EPS up 3% to 5%.
I'd like to now offer a high-level perspective on our second quarter results in our reporting segments.
I'll start with U.S.
Simple Meals a business that is clearly picking up steam.
This business had positive sales and profit growth for both the second quarter and the first half.
Sales increases were driven by improvements in dollar consumption and market share trends.
In fact as the second quarter progressed consumption outpaced shipments.
Our growth has also resulted in improved total wet soup category performance with dollar consumption increasing over 3% for the category as well as for Campbell during the quarter.
We ended the second quarter with sales up 1% and earnings up 10% and the first half with sales up 2% and earnings up 7% on this large and important business.
This positive trend is largely due to our focus on brand building by optimizing all of the drivers of demand.
It reflects continued investments in product taste with new recipes on campbellskitchen.com and line extensions that have added new craveable flavors to the base business; new packaging graphics in ready-to-serve particularly our Chunky soup line; refinements in brand positioning across the portfolio; and more effective and efficient marketing and promotion.
Some of you have expressed concerns about our reduction in advertising spending in our Soup business.
Our advertising spending continues to be at competitive levels and it has also been more effective.
For example in our -- It's Amazing What Soup Can Do campaign has worked well for Campbell's condensed soup but our Chunky brand got lost in this portfolio campaign.
Well Chunky is back to the NFL in a big way and the Mama's Boys campaign is resonating with our male target consumers.
In the second quarter Chunky consumption was up double digits.
Our new breakthrough innovations specifically Campbell Go Soups in pouches and Campbell Skillet Sauces achieved their ACV distribution goals.
In December we turned on the marketing which was largely digital and intended to connect with younger consumers.
As planned in the second quarter we invested more in advertising to support these new product innovations.
We are now in the early days of building trial.
So far the repeat is strong and purchases are skewed to the younger consumers who are the target demographic.
While it's still too soon to judge the long-term success of these products we're encouraged by the early results.
These new products are contributing only about 0.5 point of sales growth in the quarter.
Over time we believe these breakthrough product platforms can contribute meaningfully to our growth.
In the short term sustaining innovation such as the Chunky line extensions have had even more impact to our growth.
Moving on to Global Baking and Snacking this segment also posted solid results in the second quarter with organic sales up 6% and earnings up 4%.
The Goldfish brand continues its positive momentum driven by effective brand building and innovation.
During the quarter we increased consumption in our Pepperidge Farm sweet snacking business with a successful holiday season.
We also delivered better execution and innovation focused on our iconic Milano cookies and on our soft dessert cookies where seasonal varieties like pumpkin cheesecake and caramel apple pie were very successful.
In addition we gained additional shelf space and merchandising in our Pepperidge Farm fresh bakery business partially as a result of the Hostess bankruptcy but also due to better execution as well as innovation in our line of Swirl breads.
We expect that some of the gains resulting from the Hostess bankruptcy may be temporary.
But in the meantime we will continue to demonstrate what an expanded premium offering with the goodness of Pepperidge Farm can do for our customers and our consumers.
Finally despite continuing challenges in the retail and consumer environment in Australia we grew biscuit sales in Asia-Pacific both for the quarter and for the first half.
The company delivered solid results for the quarter however I am disappointed in the sales decline in our U.S.
Beverages business and the difficult conditions facing our North America Foodservice business.
Although we posted a minus 3% sales decline in our U.S.
Beverages business our earnings grew 9% in the second quarter and we realized 5% earnings growth for the first half.
In the quarter positive earnings were driven by reductions in marketing spending and productivity improvements.
V8 Splash continued to grow but not enough to offset declines in V8 original 100% vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion.
Sales continue to be adversely affected by intense competitive activity in a sluggish shelf-stable juice category.
We have started to ship our new V8 original 100% vegetable juice with improved taste and new line extensions such as Hint of Lime and Hint of Pepper.
We're also focusing on new innovation in beverages to expand usage occasions with our V8 V-Fusion + energy drink and juice boxes for kids.
We intend to step up our marketing support in the third quarter but we recognize that we have more work to do in engaging consumers and managing our costs and expenses to improve the performance of this business.
Our North America Foodservice business suffered from the loss of a significant restaurant customer higher levels of promotional support and weaker consumer traffic in restaurants all of which impacted the business.
We are working through these issues.
However we expect to experience further declines in the second half in traditional foodservice partially offset by growth in our retail fresh soup.
Bolthouse Farms had a good quarter and a good first half with solid performance across all 3 categories: carrots super premium beverages and salad dressings.
Both beverages and salad dressings increased dollar consumption and share.
Increases in shelf presence in beverages and new product innovation were the key drivers in increasing same-store sales.
Salad dressing continued to benefit from expanded points of distribution as well as increases in comparative store sales.
The integration is progressing according to our plan.
Before I close I want to touch on an announcement we made yesterday about our efforts to expand our international presence.
We're very pleased to have entered into arrangements with Grupo Jumex and Conservas La Costena 2 terrific companies in Mexico.
These partnerships will give us expanded access to distribution and manufacturing capabilities that haven't been available to us in Mexico before.
Jumex the largest producer of fruit juices and nectars in Mexico will manufacture and distribute Campbell's V8 portfolio throughout the Mexican market.
La Costena one of the largest producers of prepared foods in the country will manufacture and distribute Campbell's soups broths and Italian sauces.
We believe these arrangements will redefine the scope of our business opportunities in Mexico.
In sum we've now completed our first half with positive results and we're looking forward to a second half of continued investment and profitable sales growth.
Our leadership team is committed to delivering superior execution in both the base business and in new innovation.
We're also continuing to build a robust innovation pipeline for next year.
I'll talk about some of that at CAGNY next week and more at our Analyst Day in July.
We look forward to continuing to share our results with you as we focus forward.
Now I'll turn it over to Craig.
Thank you Denise and good morning.
I'm going to take a few minutes to walk through our second quarter results and segment highlights followed by a look at our first half results and then wrap up with a look at the full year sales and earnings guidance.
As Jennifer mentioned my discussion of results will exclude the impact of all restructuring programs for the current and prior years as well as the transaction cost associated with the Bolthouse Farms acquisition.
So for the quarter we reported net sales of $2.3 billion a 10% increase from the second quarter of 2012 reflecting the impact of Bolthouse Farms.
Excluding the acquisition impact organic net sales increased by 1% in the quarter.
Excluding restructuring cost which impacted both the current and prior year quarters adjusted EBIT increased by 5% or $349 million.
Of the adjusted EBIT increase 4 points came from adding Bolthouse and 1 point came from growth in the base business primarily driven by strong earnings growth in U.S.
Simple Meals.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.70 this quarter a 9% increase from the second quarter of 2012.
The increase reflected EBIT growth the benefit of a lower tax rate and fewer shares outstanding partly offset by higher interest expense related to the acquisition.
Our second quarter EPS results exceeded our initial expectations.
U.S.
Soup consumption performance exceeded our forecast more than offsetting unfavorable retailer inventory movements and higher marketing spending behind innovation.
As you can see on Slide 21 9 points of the 10% increase in net sales were attributable to the Bolthouse Farms acquisition.
Excluding the acquisition the growth in organic sales reflected pricing contributions of 2 points and a negative impact of increased promotional spending of 1 point.
The pricing gains primarily reflected our previous list price increase on U.S.
condensed soup and increases in Arnott's in Australia and soup in Canada.
The promotional spending variance is primarily due to higher rates of spending in International Simple Meals and Beverages North American Foodservice and Pepperidge Farm.
We continue to invest to remain competitive in all of these businesses.
Excluding the impact of current quarter restructuring programs our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 160 basis points to 36.8%.
The decline was primarily attributable to the impact of the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms which operates with a lower gross margin structure.
Excluding the acquisition the impacts of cost inflation increased promotional spending and unfavorable mix were largely offset by productivity improvements and the benefit of higher selling prices.
The inflation rate and cost of goods sold was approximately 3% for the quarter.
Marketing and selling expense was $297 million compared to a year ago -- sorry comparable to a year ago.
Lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses were offset by higher spending to support innovation efforts higher selling expenses and the impact of the addition of Bolthouse.
Advertising and consumer promotion expense declined by 14% primarily due to declines in U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Beverage.
While advertising and consumer promotion expense declined in total we have significantly increased spending behind new product introductions.
Administrative expenses for the quarter increased $20 million primarily due to the acquisition and higher compensation and benefit costs including a significant increase in pension expense.
Below the operating earnings line net interest expense increased by $5 million.
The increase was due to the higher level of debt incurred to fund the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms partially offset by the favorable impact of lower average interest rates on our total debt portfolio.
The adjusted tax rate declined 190 basis points to 31.8%.
Primarily due to the benefit of various tax planning initiatives we recognized lower taxes on foreign earnings in the current year.
With the lower tax rate more than offsetting increased interest expense adjusted net earnings increased by 6% for the quarter.
We continue to benefit from our strategic share repurchases in fiscal 2012 as earnings per share increased 9% this quarter reflecting a decline in diluted shares outstanding.
Below the operating earnings line net interest expense increased $5 million.
The increase was due to the higher level of debt as I said earlier incurred due to the acquisition.
Second quarter segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown in the next slide.
Sales of U.S.
Simple Meals increased by 1%.
Within the segment U.S.
Soup sales rose by 1% driven by gains in ready-to-serve and condensed soup partly offset by declines in broth.
U.S.
Sauce sales were comparable to the prior year as gains in Swanson canned poultry Campbell's canned pasta Pace Mexican sauce and the introduction of Campbell's Skillet Sauces were offset by declines in Prego pasta sauce and Chunky chili.
Our Global Baking and Snacking segment achieved strong organic sales gains up 6% with increases in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
The sales increase in Pepperidge Farm was driven by growth across fresh bakery crackers and cookies.
In the bakery business we benefited from the market exit by Hostess with volume gains across most of the portfolio.
The snacks business had another strong quarter reflecting solid growth in Goldfish snack crackers and the national launch of Jingos! crackers.
Benefiting from a very successful holiday period we delivered a strong sales performance in cookies.
Sales at Arnott's increased primarily due to sales growth across the portfolio on Australia including savory crackers chocolate cookies and sweet varieties.
Indonesia delivered an excellent sales growth performance for the quarter.
Organic sales for International Simple Meals and Beverages were comparable to the prior year.
Strong sales gains in Latin America and growth in Canada were offset by declines in the Asia-Pacific region.
Sales in Europe were comparable to the prior year quarter as sales growth in France was offset by lower export sales.
In Asia-Pacific sales decreased due to the declines in Australia and Japan partly offset by growth in Malaysia.
Sales for the Bolthouse Farms and North America Foodservice segment were $352 million with Bolthouse contributing $195 million.
Organic sales excluding the acquisition declined 10% comparable with the year -- compared to the year ago.
This sales decline in North America Foodservice represents a loss of a major restaurant customer and higher levels of promotional spending at both the distributor and operator levels in order to remain competitive.
U.S.
Beverage sales decreased 3% in the quarter reflecting declines in V8 vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion beverages while V8 Splash sales increased slightly.
The decrease in V8 V-Fusion was primarily due to declines in the existing business partly offset by the growth in new products including energy drinks and juice boxes.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals increased significantly up 10% to $191 million this quarter as we continue to improve the profitability of the business.
The increase reflects strong earnings gains in U.S.
Soup partially offset by a decline in U.S.
Sauce.
Within the segment the benefit of higher selling prices productivity improvements and lower marketing expense were partly offset by volume declines and cost inflation.
The earnings of Global Baking and Snacking increased by 4% reflecting growth at Pepperidge Farm partly offset by lower earnings at Arnott's.
For the segment volume gains and productivity improvements were offset by increased promotional spend and cost inflation.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings decreased by 7% primarily due to lower earnings in Canada where cost inflation has outpaced higher selling price net of increased promotional spending.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages increased by 9% for the half.
Lower advertising expenses which were largely timing-related and productivity improvements were partially offset by volume declines and cost inflation.
And finally operating earnings within the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment increased by 7% or $2 million.
The increase included $15 million from the addition of Bolthouse Farms and a significant decrease in earnings from North America Foodservice.
Consistent with the sales decline the earnings decline in Foodservice is driven by customer loss and higher trade spending.
We are pleased with the performance of Bolthouse Farms which is delivering results consistent with our acquisition plan.
U.S.
Soup sales for the second quarter increased by 1%.
Our sales performance was negatively impacted by a decline in retailer inventory levels.
Our end market performance as measured by consumer takeaway increased about 3% led by gains in both RTS and condensed soup.
As you can see on the chart our reported sales of condensed soup increased by 1% driven by gains in eating varieties.
Cooking varieties were comparable to the year-ago quarter.
Ready-to-serve soup sales increased 8% primarily due to volume-driven gains in Campbell's Chunky canned soups and the benefit of new items across the portfolio slightly offset by declines in microwavable soups.
Broth sales declined by 12% primarily due to movements in retailer inventory following increased shipments in the first quarter to support holiday promotions.
For the first half U.S.
Soup sales increased 2% primarily driven by a 6% increase in ready-to-serve soup.
Sales of condensed soups were comparable to the prior year while sales of broth decreased 1% for the half.
U.S.
Soup consumer takeaway for the first 6 months was up about 1%.
On Slide 28 we look at our market share and category performance based on the past 52 weeks for the U.S.
wet soup category.
The category as a whole rose 2.2%.
During the full year our sales in measured channels rose by 0.2% with gains in condensed soup and ready-to-serve cans mostly offset by weakness in microwavable bowls.
Campbell's had a 59% market share of the wet soup category which includes condensed ready-to-serve and broth.
All other branded players collectively held a share of 28% leaving 13% for private label.
These figures represent dollar share and are sourced from SymphonyIRI multi-outlet data.
For the first half we reported net sales of $4.7 billion a 9% increase from the prior year primarily driven by the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition organic net sales increased by 1%.
The organic sales gains were primarily driven by growth in Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Simple Meals partly offset by declines in North America Foodservice and U.S.
Beverages.
Excluding restructuring and acquisition transaction cost adjusted EBIT increased by 5% to $787 million.
4 points or $29 million of the increase was attributable to Bolthouse Farms' operating earnings while 1 point of growth came from the base business primarily driven by earnings gains in U.S.
Simple Meals.
Adjusted earnings per share were $1.58 in the first half an 8% increase from the first half of 2012.
The increase reflected EBIT growth the benefit of lower tax rates and fewer shares outstanding partly offset by higher interest expense.
In the first half our reported net sales increased by 9% with the Bolthouse Farms acquisition contributing 9 points.
Organic sales excluding the acquisition increased 1% reflecting an increase in pricing of 2 points partly offset by the negative impact of increased promotional spending of 1 point.
You'll note that the detail doesn't add due to rounding.
On a segment basis organic sales growth in Global Baking and Snacking U.S.
Simple Meals and International Simple Meals was partly offset by declines in North America Foodservice and U.S.
Beverages.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined 160 basis points to 37.4% for the half.
The decline was primarily attributable again to the impact of Bolthouse.
The inflation rate and cost of goods was approximately 4% for the half in line with our expectation for the full year.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased by 1% to $551 million.
The decline was primarily due to our planned reduction in marketing spend principally a 14% reduction in advertising and consumer promotion expense partly offset by the impact of Bolthouse Farm expenses and higher selling expenses.
Administrative expense for the quarter increased $37 million due to adding Bolthouse Farms and incurring higher compensation and benefit cost including increases in pension expense.
Below the operating earnings line net interest expense increased $10 million due to the higher level of debt to fund the acquisition.
The adjusted tax rate declined 120 basis points to 31.7% primarily due to tax planning initiatives which lowered our taxes on foreign earnings.
Consistent with EBIT growth adjusted net earnings for the first half also increased 5%.
Adjusted EPS benefiting from fewer shares outstanding increased 8%.
Cash flow from operations was $499 million compared with $478 million in the prior year period.
Higher cash earnings including the addition of Bolthouse Farms were partly offset by increased working capital requirements and higher pension contribution.
Capital expenditures of $110 million were up from $97 million a year ago.
For the year we continue to forecast capital spending of approximately $330 million including capital spending at Bolthouse.
As we previously announced we have suspended the strategic share repurchase program at the end of fiscal 2012 in order to reduce the debt incurred to finance the Bolthouse acquisition.
However we continue to repurchase sufficient shares to offset dilution from equity compensation programs.
Net debt rose to $4 billion an increase of $1.5 billion due to the acquisition partly offset by cash generation from the base business.
For the first 6 months the company paid dividends of $366 million including accelerated payments of the January and April dividends.
This total compares with $188 million paid a year ago.
This morning we confirmed our fiscal 2013 guidance.
For the year we continue to expect to grow sales between 10% and 12% with adjusted EBIT growth of 4% to 6% and adjusted EPS growth of 3% to 5%.
Within these ranges currency is expected to be neutral.
We now expect interest expense to increase approximately $20 million primarily due to the acquisition financing.
The tax rate will still be between 31% and 32%.
Our guidance includes the estimated impact of the Bolthouse business and excludes the impact of onetime acquisition transaction cost and those costs related to our restructuring programs.
The Bolthouse Farms acquisition is expected to contribute approximately $750 million to sales and to add between $0.05 and $0.07 to our adjusted EPS including the impact of suspending our strategic share repurchase program.
Looking at the second half the acquisition will have a more significant impact on our sales growth rate given our ownership for the full period and given the seasonality of our base business.
While we expect EBIT growth to continue in the second half our EPS growth will be negatively impacted by an unusually low tax rate in the back half of last year 26% in the third quarter 30% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.
Thank you.
With that I'll now turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Craig.
At this time we'll conduct a Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to get a little better understanding on this Mexican transition.
And specifically I have a few questions.
So I apologize in advance.
I'm just going to rattle off a few.
First can you give us a rough sense of how big your soup and beverage business is in Mexico right now where the current distribution level stands where you think distribution could go to over time? And then give us a sense of the time line for this transition and roll out.
Yes.
So Jason we don't disclose the size of the business.
But it is relatively small right in Mexico while we've been there for quite some time and have developed a reasonable soup business given that the soup business there is not primarily wet soup.
And lately we've had a lot of success with our beverage business there.
Our distribution model currently is primarily in the developed trade.
And really I think the primary impact of this change is that it's going to take us in a much better way down market and into the smaller mom and pops and the smaller outlets that are so important particularly to our Beverage business in that country.
The time line is that we will phase out of production really across the next several quarters.
But fairly quickly we will move into distribution through the third parties.
And so we'll start to see some of that impact us as early as the latter part of this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Are you expecting any material impact on the overall margin profile of this business? Well I don't want to get all deeply at this point into the accounting for this but the margin will improve.
We'll probably see a decline in our reported sales because of the structure of the agreement but I think it'd be best for us to tackle that when we report the quarter where that impact begins.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify something.
So if I understand you right you're planning to increase advertising on V8 because you're not happy with the performance of the brand.
You increased advertising on Chunky and apparently the brand is reacting there yet you're still planning to decrease advertising overall.
Doesn't the success of your advertising show you that more advertising would be helpful? Yes.
Thilo let me take that question.
There's a number of different dynamics going on in different brands.
And what we've been talking about is for each brand optimizing all of the drivers of demand.
In the V8 situation we believe that as we introduce our new V8 with improved taste and the Hint of Lime and the new energy drinks and the juice boxes on kids increasing our advertising in the second half is a good way as one of the drivers for that business in addition to merchandising and the innovation and product improvement that I just talked to you about.
In terms of Chunky we -- the biggest change on Chunky was going back to the NFL and having advertising that was a lot more productive than when Chunky got lost in the Amazing campaign last year.
We think that has been huge.
So across the Soup business in general our advertising investment is still indexing significantly higher than peers.
But we've used media vehicles.
For example we shifted to higher-quality GRPs and doubled our network prime GRPs which were much more effective for us.
So we've made some changes in not only the advertising campaign in Chunky but also in the media as well.
So I think that it's -- suffice it to say that we are looking at all those drivers by brand and we're making the decisions based on the situation the brand finds itself in.
And just a fact check.
Advertising was down in Soup not up as you said Thilo.
Right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But it was -- was it up on Chunky? No.
It was down on Chunky.
I mean it's one of the things that makes it a good example of what we're talking about.
We had great response to more effective advertising on Chunky and to some of the other things that we did in the marketing mix.
But advertise spend on Chunky was down.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- we heard from Kraft this morning of inventory deloading in some of their markets.
Smucker's seem to have skated through without that but you mentioned I guess broth as a challenge.
Can you -- perhaps you can kind of go into what's happening with that? I think you broadly mentioned that you undershipped consumption.
But in broth it sounds like it was a pretty tough quarter.
The broth business was affected by the fact that we shipped our holiday broth program at the end of October.
So it actually hit in the first quarter which raised our inventory levels.
And we actually guided for that as we entered into the second quarter.
Overall for the half broth was down 1%.
So I think overall what we found in the second quarter as our consumption our dollar consumption on soup picked up we actually were seeing dollar consumption.
This is MULO [ph] of plus 3.2% with our shipments only being up 1%.
So we've been outpacing our shipments with consumption.
But our inventory is only up slightly at the end of the quarter and that's in anticipation of the programming that went against the Super Bowl.
So broth was sort of the most extreme piece of that Eric.
But for the half it's all pretty well squared up even within broth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the challenges in Beverages are -- that's been going on for a while.
But Foodservice that's not a business that we really have talked about much at all basically I guess because it's been relatively small and not all that impactful one way or the other.
But it sounds like that's going the wrong way in a very rapid rate.
What -- I guess is there anything really that you can do other than try to gain some accounts back sooner versus later to offset that? And how much of a drag to I guess earnings do you expect that to be in the second half? A large portion of our sales decline as we said was due to the loss of a key restaurant customer but we've also had an impact in the bottom line due to increased promotional spending.
The cost of doing business in these channels have increased for us.
So we're working through programs with retailers -- or sorry with restaurants and with operators.
We have a campaign for customer acquisition but this is going to take time and that's why we've basically said that we do anticipate that over the next few quarters this business will continue to face challenges.
The one part of the Foodservice business that actually remains a bright spot is our retail fresh soup.
And the other thing that's in our profit in this business is we're investing in new capabilities that will support our ability for new customer acquisition.
Research Division</strong> And so to the question about the earnings hit can you kind of give us some sense as to how much of a drag that's going to be? Eric I don't actually see the trends getting a lot better in that business.
I mean as you've pointed out the -- there are some step-change things that happen as you acquire or as you lose customers.
We're on the negative side of that this year with a pretty significant restaurant loss.
And we'll keep working on expenses and customer acquisition.
But I think realistically we're going to see that business be a negative drag through the balance of this year and then we will have cycled that customer loss.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your full year EPS guidance which hasn't changed but given the over delivery in the fiscal second quarter I guess at the midpoint of your full year range it implies essentially no EPS growth in the second half of the year.
And I'm trying to get a sense of why that would be.
Is it -- we already have the higher year-over-year tax rate in our model.
Is it just the Foodservice issue you just talked about and some higher spending planned in Beverages? Or is there something else there that would lead the earnings growth to slow that much sequentially? Well if you look at it half to half Andrew the delivery on -- the implied delivery on EBIT is not very much different.
So it's all about what's going on below the line and it's the combination of cycling the very low tax rate from last year in the second half.
So in the first half of this year tax was a small favorable as we went from EBIT to earnings per share in the first half and it's going to be a big negative as we go from EBIT to EPS in the second half.
And then you've also got the fading positive impact of the share repurchase program.
We suspended share purchase at the beginning of this year.
So on the first half the positive impact from that was something like 3 points and it'll be more like 1 point or so in the balance of the year.
So those 2 things are really what's going on between EBIT and EPS differently between the 2 halves.
Research Division</strong> And you'd mentioned that condensed -- I think condensed sales were essentially flat for the half.
And I know there were some concerns coming into the year that you were taking some pricing on condensed and what would the elasticity be.
But it seems like at least thus far that's been manageable and -- so I'm trying to get a sense is that level of elasticity essentially in line with what you had planned coming in or better? And what does it tell you about the I guess resiliency of that piece of the business and the role it can play in your broader portfolio? Yes.
Andrew on the condensed soup the performance has been better than what we expected in terms of the list price increase and we're seeing that not only across the base but also the incremental.
I mean if you look at consumption data for the quarter condensed was actually up about 3 points.
So we're pretty happy with that.
Our next question comes from Ed Aaron of RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> You mentioned in your prepared remarks that consumption in soup came in a little better than you expected.
As you kind of look at kind of the underlying data there does it look to you like that's a function of what you've been doing to kind of improve that business? Or was there perhaps just more of a benefit from kind of easy comps and some better weather year-over-year? We have -- our conclusion on the performance this quarter really has been that our growth is driven by improved execution across the drivers of demand.
We talked earlier on the call about the Chunky example but if you think just in that one line we've made taste improvements we have had new innovation.
In fact 3 of the new varieties are performing in the top 5 of all RTS.
We have had better positioning with the NFL.
We're now being much more true to the brand target dealing with satisfying the core male demographic.
We've optimized pricing.
We had better distribution and more impactful merchandising.
So it's not a silver bullet.
It's just been working with the brand and what it stands for in a much better way.
In the advertising we've kept it competitive levels but we actually have more impactful advertising with the NFL.
And quite frankly you could say "Yes the weather had an impact " but it's really hard to predict or measure weather.
So basically we think it's that plus all of the other things we're doing on the business.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard of Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Actually maybe just continuing on the question of Chunky execution.
It must be quite unusual to have some of those brand-new SKUs be in the top -- the top of SKUs for that entire brand.
Is that because they're getting an awful lot of new promotion and merchandising support? And if so how long is that launch merchandising support likely to last? I think it's a combination of the fact that we've had better quality merchandising and more frequency of promotion not necessarily in the depths of that promotion that's really worked for the brand this year.
And the new SKUs would be promoted at least the new base SKUs would be promoted with the rest of the line.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And the promotion for the new SKUs that will continue -- is there unusual promotion on those new products? And how long does that typically continue? There's not a lot of differentiated activity on the new SKUs within the Chunky line Alexia.
I mean they have done very well and we are really happy about that.
But I -- the Chunky line tends to get promoted both base and incremental SKUs together and we're just seeing really good response to some of the new flavor adventure that we've got in the new SKUs.
So it's pretty good news for us.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Denise or Craig just thinking about the industry and the environment here it seems to be picking up a little bit.
And I guess in light of that just wonder if you can maybe share your vision in terms of Global Baking and Snacking to the extent that maybe there's some white spaces in your portfolio that you'd like to fill or maybe certain geographies where a deal could enhance your leverage or enhance your growth.
Just wondering if you have any thoughts there.
The Global Baking and Snacking business for us has been pretty robust.
And we're seeing increases in sales in both the United States and in Asia-Pacific across the savory and the sweet.
And then in the United States we did have a windfall in our bakery business due to the Hostess bankruptcy.
We were able to get extra shelf space and extra merchandising.
I think that we're encouraged by those results.
I don't know Craig if you have anymore to add there? Well I mean we have said a number of times that part of our strategy is to be a little bit more active in M&amp;A.
One of the -- certainly in terms of category baking and snacking is interesting to us.
So if we saw an opportunity to fill portfolio whitespace as you put it in some of our target markets with baking or snacking assets that would be interesting to us.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll of Citi.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a bit more of a big-picture strategic question.
Incredible news yesterday with Heinz going off the board here with a -- sorry a non-strategic buyer a financial buyer.
Denise I'd really like to hear your thoughts on -- it's always been one of my beliefs and I think a fairly widely held belief that the combination of Campbell's and Heinz would produce just tremendously powerful cost synergies on bringing those 2 companies together.
You don't need to comment -- you're probably not going to comment on Heinz but I'd like to hear your thoughts on this idea of extracting cost synergies in a really big-picture strategic sense as to what we can do with Campbell's.
I mean it does seem like there's some amazing opportunities.
And to see a company like Heinz go off the board from a financial buyer who should have nowhere near the capabilities of bringing cost synergies like a Campbell's would I'm just surprised that that type of a transaction has happened and we haven't seen a Campbell's get involved with something like this.
Well we found the news surprising yesterday as well and we wish Heinz and all the investors well with their plans.
I'm not really going to comment on that transaction.
What I can comment on though is the fact that at Campbell's we are constantly looking at ways that we can reduce costs and manage our margins in these businesses and we'll continue to do so.
Our next question comes from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on innovation.
It sounds like some of the new flavors of Chunky have worked well.
You also had Go soup and some other platforms with the idea that you wanted to broaden the shoulders of the brand reach down into younger demographics.
Could you speak to those new platforms where there's a prospect of those being in-source because they're that successful from co-packing which is my understanding that those are being co-packed? And any insights there that'd be great.
Yes.
I think the easiest way to deal with this is the fact that we've had 2 types of innovation.
We've had sustaining innovation which we've just talked about in terms of the line extensions to our base business and then also the breakthrough innovation.
The major breakthrough innovation that we've had in Soup and Simple Meals as you've pointed out is the Go soup and the Skillet Sauces.
And to  date they've added about 0.5 point to our sales growth in quarter 2.
Let me give you a little color on this.
We reached our distribution targets for ACV although it was a slower build.
But we've completed that at the end of quarter 1.
And just to give you an idea that's about 70% in the MULO [ph] and in grocery it's about the mid-80s.
Therefore once we achieve that we turned on the marketing mid-quarter particularly in digital and social media and then in-store with sharper marketing and consumer promotions.
Because right now we're in a stage where we want to drive more trial with this new demographic of millennials.
And the trial is building.
And where we have trial repeat is encouraging.
And so we believe that this is going to take longer to create a franchise with this new demographic but we're very committed to it and this is the beginning of a platform to do so.
In the case of Skillet Sauces we're really making a market here because this dinner sauce segment does not exist.
And so what we've found was customers placed the Skillet Sauces in some different locations in the stores.
We're learning where they should be situated.
We're reading the data on that throughout this introduction.
But what we've come up with and we're talking to retailers about is we envision a new dinner sauce section in the store.
And we recognize that it creates -- it's going to take longer to create a new category than building on line extensions.
But so far the retailer receptivity to this idea is very good.
So we're pretty encouraged by these platforms and we're going to continue to work them and build on them.
And you'll hear more about that at CAGNY.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question for you on the Foodservice business and just a follow-up.
A lot of my other questions have been answered.
So on the Foodservice side -- and obviously the loss of a customer can hurt the business in the short run but is there anything you need to do to that business to get it either -- whether it's from an investment standpoint or even a restructuring standpoint I know you've got a pretty good plant there.
But is there anything you can do from either of those sides to help kind of improve the performance for the new if you will Foodservice business? Yes.
I -- well so we're working actually in both of those areas.
We are putting in some new capability.
There's been -- particularly around soup we think that the market growth is more about ready-to-eat soup rather than our frozen soups and so we're making some capital investment in one of our plants there and extending not only our capacity but also our packaging capabilities.
With respect to restructuring we've been through actually some restructuring of that organization.
It improved our profitability last year and the year before.
I think we'll retake a look at that.
But the reality is that some of the pressure in addition to the lost customer is coming from the -- just pressure within the industry at both the distributor level and the wholesaler level as we see pressure on prices.
So we're having to respond to that.
We're being competitive.
It is creating a difficult business environment for us that we think we'll work our way through it.
But that's the reality right now in the marketplace.
We have Jonathan Feeney with Janney Montgomery Scott.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick one.
The $297 million in marketing and selling expenses in the quarter you disclosed if -- what would that have been roughly without -- I assume Bolthouse had some marketing and selling associated with it but how much would that have been down on an organic basis? And I guess related to that clearly you had -- did have some success with Chunky and in an environment of falling advertising expenses.
So what is it that's special do you think about soup and maybe you’re ready-to-serve franchise that's allowing you to get growth where I guess -- sort of industry dogma that you need to advertise to sell product deals to accelerate volumes incrementally? Down 2%.
So we would have been down 2% marketing and selling expense Jonathan excluding the impact of Bolthouse.
I think as we've said several times I don't want to keep -- I don't want to be repetitive.
But the reality is Chunky is responding very well to a lot of activity that we have going on across the different drivers of demand as we talk about it.
Advertising is a piece of that.
It's an important piece of that.
We think our advertising is more effective.
We think the positioning the more unique positioning on Chunky going sort of back to its roots and getting it out from under the umbrella advertising has made every dollar that we've spent on air more effective than it was last year.
And as we've also shown and we'll talk a little bit more about this at CAGNY the -- although we are down and it's appropriate for us to talk about that because it's a driver from year-to-year although we're down on our advertising spend we are still very fully spent if you compare us to sort of industry averages against our Soup business.
We have Rob Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So it's a one-part question.
I think this year management has demonstrated that they can stabilize the Simple Meals business.
And operating margins by my forecast anyway look like they're going to come in around 25%.
They've come in 25% almost every year for the last 4 or 5 years.
And I guess my question is is stabilization good enough right now for that business segment? I mean would you be happy with kind of like a slow 0 to 1% kind of pace of growth and 25% margins? And if so are you concerned that there might be dilution to the margin for the portfolio overall as you concentrate your resources on growing kind of the lower-margin parts of the businesses like Beverages and Bolthouse? All right.
I'm going to try and really answer this question.
First of all stabilization of this business is not good enough.
And we've always said that we want to stabilize and profitably grow the business.
We recognize that the business as is is capable of a few points of growth.
And it will be the innovation that we bring to the business on top of what we have today that could take that growth higher.
Some of those executions will be at a lower margin but they'll be important because they'll be reaching different consumers than what we've been able to do to date and bringing them into the franchise.
But overall Soup and Simple Meals will be a very profitable business for Campbell's.
I don't know if you have anything else to add? Yes.
And Rob you're right.
If you focus on margin dilution there probably will be some right? We talk about entering faster-growing segments faster-growing geographies.
It's very unlikely that those new spaces will have the same kind of operating margin that Soup does.
But to the extent that we expect those to be incremental growth it adds to our total growth portfolio I'm not so concerned about margin dilution per se.
And particularly when you put it on top of not only stabilized soup business but one that has had some growth to it and one that's benefiting from increased innovation I think the formula starts to work pretty well for us if we get all those things going at one time.
Research Division</strong> A few points of growth? Was that a 2 or a 3 behind it for Simple Meals? Or is that how I should interpret that? Don't have a specific forecast on Simple Meal growth going forward.
Okay.
Thank you for your very active Q&amp;A session.
We'll switch to Denise for her wrap-up.
So in conclusion I'd like to leave you with some key points.
We're encouraged with our overall performance this quarter as we continue to make progress on advancing our 3 growth strategies.
Our U.S.
Simple Meals business is clearly picking up steam with positive sales and profit growth in both the quarter and the half.
It's still too soon to judge the long-term success of our breakthrough innovations in U.S.
Simple Meals but early results are as we expected.
And over time we believe these products can contribute meaningfully to our growth.
In Global Baking and Snacking we posted solid results.
Our Goldfish brand continued its positive momentum and we drove increased consumption in our sweet snacking business.
We also gained shelf space with fresh bakery.
And in Asia-Pacific we grew biscuit sales for both the quarter and the half.
We have more work to do to improve the performance of U.S.
Beverages and our North America Foodservice business where we lost a significant customer.
Bolthouse Farms had another good quarter driven by innovation and increased distribution across its 3 categories and we advanced our efforts to expand our international presence through agreements with Grupo Jumex and Conservas La Costena that will give Campbell expanded access to manufacturing and distribution capabilities in Mexico to grow our business.
We're looking forward to a second half of continued investment and profitable sales growth.
Thank you very much for joining us today and I look forward to seeing many of you at CAGNY next week.
Jennifer can you please provide the closing comments? Thank you everybody.
We appreciate you joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
The replay will be available in a couple of hours.
The phone number for that if you missed any of our call is (703) 925-2533.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communication at (856) 342-3737.
If you're an analyst or investor call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
That does conclude our conference and you may now disconnect.
Have a great weekend and see many of you in Florida.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Company Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Sean.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Third Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
Denise will kick us off today with her perspective on the third quarter.
Craig will then give you the financial and segment results for the quarter our 9-month highlights and expectations for fiscal 2013.
After that we'll take your questions.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com and on our IR app which is available through Google or Apple.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to Slide 2 in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K -- I'm sorry Slide 3 and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements.
Campbell completed the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms 1 week into this current fiscal year.
The acquisition is now included in our results and it drove most of the year-over-year changes in our first 5 -- 9 months.
In September we announced a restructuring program designed to improve our U.S.
supply chain cost structure.
Our third quarter reported results reflect $20 million pretax of costs associated with that program.
Last we signed commercial agreements with 2 companies in Mexico in February and our third quarter reported results reflect $1 million of associated pretax costs related to those agreements.
Our remarks today for the balance of our presentation will be on an adjusted basis including Bolthouse Farms' operating results for 38 of the 39 weeks but excluding its transaction costs and the restructuring charges.
Since our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly financials also can be found on our website accessible online or on your mobile device with the Campbell IR app.
I've got one more thing to plug.
We'd like to cordially invite our analysts to our annual Analyst Day at Campbell World Headquarters.
This year's event will be held on the morning of Wednesday July 24 and will feature presentations by Denise Morrison Craig Owens and several other Campbell leaders.
It will also be your opportunity to meet 2 of them who are new including Luca Mignini our new President of Campbell International; and Jeff Dunn Head of Bolthouse Farms.
After the formal remarks that day we'll offer Q&amp;A before concluding our Analyst Day with a very tasty luncheon featuring Campbell and Bolthouse products.
We hope you'll join us either via webcast or better yet live at World Headquarters here in Camden New Jersey.
Watch for more information later.
And with that let me turn it over to Denise.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings call.
As you've seen in our earnings release this morning we are very pleased by our results for the third quarter.
Our net sales were up 15% or 4% excluding the impact of Bolthouse Farms which we acquired in the first quarter of the year.
Our adjusted EBIT was up 9% or 3% excluding the acquisition.
Our adjusted EPS was up 11%.
These results were driven by outstanding sales and profit gains in U.S.
Simple Meals led by our U.S.
Soup business whose sales were up 14%.
There were also strong contributions from Bolthouse Farms and solid sales performance in Global Baking and Snacking including both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
As you've also seen we revised our previous guidance for the full year.
We now expect to end the fiscal year with both net sales and adjusted EBIT at the high end of the growth ranges we previously forecasted for the year and adjusted EPS above our previous guidance.
In my comments this morning I'll offer my perspective on the performance of our Soup business in the quarter and comment on the progress of our innovation program in U.S.
Simple Meals.
I also want to talk about our plans for improving the performance of 2 businesses that did not do well in quarter 3: U.S.
Beverages and North America Foodservice.
I'll say a few words about Global Baking and Snacking and Bolthouse Farms.
Finally I'll offer some thoughts on how our results for the third quarter relate to our overarching strategy for the business.
Craig will then provide a more detailed review of our third quarter financials and then we'll open up the call for your questions.
So first U.S.
Soup.
Our U.S.
Soup business delivered exceptionally strong third quarter performance.
Condensed sales increased 11% sales of our ready-to-serve soups increased 18% and sales in the broth business also rose 18%.
Overall the top line in U.S.
Soup grew by 14% for the quarter.
These are clearly impressive results.
For the most part we delivered these results by doing what we said we would do in our Soup business focusing relentlessly on improving our execution against the drivers of demand.
We've improved product quality and packaging.
We have more effective advertising and consumer promotion and better in-store merchandising.
Our new product varieties have been well received by consumers.
Our price realization has continued to work.
Our Chunky soup franchise posted strong double-digit growth in the third quarter behind a number of brand-building initiatives including increased promotional spending introduction of new varieties improvement in quality and a return to more impactful NFL-themed advertising.
Overall we have maintained competitive levels of advertising while reducing less productive spending and supporting new product innovation.
There's little doubt that we had some help from the weather in the third quarter and for the soup season although it's hard to quantify the impact of that factor with any precision.
Colder weather clearly helped Soup sales in the quarter as we cycled last year's weather which was one of the warmest winters on record.
We also delivered stronger execution and laid the groundwork for sustainable growth.
We are very encouraged by the progress we've made in this business.
Year-to-date both Campbell Soups and the wet soup category in the United States have grown 4%.
We are confident that we can now drop the word "stabilize" in our strategy and focus on driving sustainable profitable growth in North America Soup and Simple Meals.
While I'm on the subject of U.S.
Simple Meals I'd like to comment on our progress in innovation.
As I just mentioned strong sustaining innovation has had a positive impact on the performance of our Simple Meals portfolio.
Appealing new product varieties and a resolute focus on improved quality are helping us reinforce and expand the vitality of our brands with our loyal consumer base.
But as you know we're also working hard to expand our core franchise in North America to reach new consumer groups and a new generation of consumers.
In combination Campbell's Go soups and Campbell's Skillet Sauces added approximately 1 point of growth for U.S.
Simple Meals both in the third quarter and year-to-date.
While sales are still small we're committed to these products and are pleased by the potential they've shown.
Let me explain.
Premium shelf-stable soup is a fast-growing segment of the Soup category with higher retail price points and primarily out-of-the-can packaging.
Campbell's Go is the third entry in our premium shelf-stable soup platform following Campbell's Slow Kettle and our Gourmet Bisques.
The rate of repeat on Campbell's Go soup continues to be strong.
Our challenge with this product is to build trial which was impacted by the timing of our marketing efforts.
Since we've turned on our marketing which has been largely digital we've seen improvements in sales in this line.
Campbell's Skillet Sauces are a breakthrough concept with a high potential for reward.
With this product we're working with our customers to create an entirely new category of unique convenient and versatile dinner sauces.
Because this is a new idea retailers across the country have shelved the product in many different locations in the store and those locations did not create the scale necessary to capture the attention of shoppers.
Additionally the resets in these various sections occurred at different times of the year so with some retailers we had a later start than we had planned.
We now have a clearer understanding of the best way to shelve our new dinner sauces and this will be a major thrust for us in fiscal '14.
But the good news is is that consumer repeat is very strong.
Those who try it buy it again.
And as I mentioned at CAGNY next year we will expand this platform with the launch of Campbell's Slow Cooker Sauces which address another large dinner behavior.
Compared with our sustaining innovations like our new varieties of Chunky soup sales from our breakthrough innovations in Simple Meals remain small but I'm neither surprised nor discouraged by the fact that we've had some growing pains in introducing brand-new ideas into the marketplace and we've learned a lot from the launches this year.
In fiscal 2014 we'll refine our approach to the accessibility and appeal of these product lines and we anticipate that over time both of these platforms will contribute meaningful growth to our portfolio.
I want to turn now to U.S.
Beverages and North America Foodservice whose third quarter performance were disappointing.
First Beverages.
Campbell now competes across a broader spectrum of the immense beverage category than we did a year ago.
With our acquisition of Bolthouse Farms we are now actively participating in super premium fresh beverages a fast-growing segment in which we're performing quite well with retail sales up more than 20% this year as measured by IRI.
Our historic roots of course are in shelf-stable juices a category which has been and continues to be weak in the U.S.
We compete in the premium segment of the shelf-stable category with V8 100% Vegetable Juice and V8 V-Fusion and in the value segment with V8 Splash.
The value segment is currently one of the bright spots and V8 Splash is doing nicely.
We will continue to market it aggressively.
The premium segment of shelf-stable juice is weaker than the total category and that is where our issues are now.
Our core V8 100% Vegetable Juice business is down and over the past few years new players have entered with other fruit and vegetable blends that compete with our V8 V-Fusion line.
Our innovation in this space has had mixed results.
As I've said before we believe that we can improve the performance of our shelf-stable beverage business by taking a page from the playbook we've successfully used in U.S.
Soup.
So we're focused now on 2 things: the first is laser-like attention to the basics with excellence in execution against all the drivers of demand.
We've recently improved the quality of our V8 100% Vegetable Juice products and returned to a proven advertising campaign.
Next year we'll enhance our packaging.
Second we're focused on expansion and faster-growing spaces in this category.
Our V8 V-Fusion + Energy drinks and new V8 V-Fusion juice boxes for kids are performing well and we're growing distribution and increasing marketing support behind these promising new products.
We also plan to launch other new products in the fourth quarter and next year.
V8 is a very strong brand with unsurpassed credentials in health and wellness.
Over time I believe we can reverse the declining trends in our shelf-stable beverage business.
We're taking the right steps to do that and we'll provide more details on our plans at our Analyst Day in July.
I'll now move to North America Foodservice.
Although about half of our -- of consumer food dollars are spent in away-from-home eating occasions the trends in the food service sector particularly restaurants continue to be affected by consumers' close management of their discretionary spending in the aftermath of the economic downturn.
Our own Foodservice business has been challenged due to the loss of a major restaurant customer and by structural changes in the sector that have caused us to increase trade spending at the expense of margin.
However our fresh soup business in the retail perimeter continues to be a bright spot with net sales up 8%.
Going forward we believe we have significant opportunity to grow with national restaurant chains especially QSRs and to expand our retail fresh perimeter soup business.
We've invested in a new manufacturing line to increase our capacity to make fresh soup which will enable our expansion in this space.
We're also taking a close look at the business model for our core Foodservice business.
Core Foodservice is becoming more complex more expensive and more commoditized.
Industry consolidation and restaurant cost pressures have reduced profitability for manufacturers and as you would expect we're focused on keeping our costs down.
We're moving aggressively to improve the performance of North America Foodservice in the short term while laying the foundation for longer-term growth.
Before I conclude I want to say a few words about 2 other important Campbell businesses: Global Baking and Snacking delivered solid top line performance in the third quarter with organic sales up 6%.
At Pepperidge Farm there were strong sales gains in both our Goldfish crackers and our Pepperidge Farm cookies.
Sales in fresh bakery grew double-digits over the prior year.
The shelf-space opportunity triggered by the Hostess bankruptcy contributed to our bakery gains in the quarter.
Our improved execution also played a role.
We plan to hold on to some of the shelf-space gains even after competitors return to the market by continuing to demonstrate to customers what an expanded premium offering can do for their business.
We're also pleased to see solid sales growth in our Arnott's biscuit business with increases in both savory crackers and sweet cookies and continuing growth in Arnott's business in Indonesia.
Finally the addition of the Bolthouse Farms business remains consistent with our plans and the business is performing very well on both the top and bottom lines across carrots salad dressings and super premium beverages.
Beverage innovations launched by Bolthouse this spring are exceeding expectations.
We believe this has been a great acquisition for Campbell and we continue to be extremely excited about the platform it provides us to expand in the fast-growing package fresh category.
I'll close by offering some brief perspective on the big picture.
We have said that our overarching goal is to position Campbell for sustainable profitable net sales growth by executing against a dual mandate: To strengthen our core business and to invest for long-term growth in faster-growing categories adjacencies and geographies.
We believe that we're making good progress in advancing our plan and in our efforts to change the growth trajectory of this company.
Today we are managing our core business with a clear view of the role of each business in the portfolio and working hard to optimize the value that each business can deliver.
Superior execution and smart innovation are having an impact on our financial performance in Simple Meals and Baking and Snacking and we've made significant strides in U.S.
Soup.
And across the portfolio we're investing for long-term growth in faster-growing spaces from package fresh to premium soups in the center aisle to beverages baked snacks and simple meals that resonate well with consumer groups that represent strategic growth opportunities for Campbell like Millennials and Hispanics.
We're also investing in faster-growing markets like Mexico and Indonesia.
We recognize that there is much more that we have to do to fulfill our dual mandate including improving our performance in shelf-stable beverages and food service.
We know what our challenges are and what we have to do to address them and we expect to deliver improved results in the businesses that have been lagging this year.
As we head into the final quarter of fiscal '13 we feel very good about the progress of the last 2 years.
We're also excited about what lies ahead.
We're still in the early days of executing this plan but we believe our strategies are the right ones for Campbell and we remain committed to them.
You'll see us continue to execute against them with energy and unsparing focus as we look forward to ongoing dialogue with you about the results particularly at our upcoming Analyst Day in July where we'll provide more details about our fiscal 2014 plans.
Now I'll turn the call over to Craig for a closer look at the third quarter.
Thanks Denise.
Good morning.
I'll spend a few minutes walking through our third quarter results and segment highlights followed by a brief look at our year-to-date results.
We'll wrap up with a full year sales and earnings guidance look.
As Jennifer mentioned my discussion of results will exclude the impact of all restructuring programs for the current and prior years as well as acquisition transaction costs.
For the quarter we reported net sales of $2.1 billion a 15% increase reflecting the impact of the Bolthouse Farms acquisition which added 11 points.
Excluding the acquisition organic net sales increased by 4% our best quarterly growth rate since 2009.
EBIT adjusted for restructuring costs which impacted both the current and prior year quarters increased by 9% to $293 million.
Of the adjusted EBIT increase 6 points came from adding Bolthouse and 3 points from growth in the base business primarily driven by a strong performance in U.S.
Simple Meals.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.62 an 11% increase from the third quarter of 2012.
As you can see on Slide 22 11 points of the 15% increase in net sales were attributable to Bolthouse.
The growth in organic sales reflected 5 points of volume/mix growth pricing contributions of 1 point and the negative impact of increased promotional spending of 2 points.
The favorable volume/mix was from gains in our 3 largest segments: U.S.
Simple Meals Global Baking and Snacking and International Simple Meals and Beverages.
The pricing gains were primarily due to our previous list price increase on U.S.
condensed soup as well as increases in Canadian soup and in Pepperidge Farm.
The promotional spending variance is primarily due to higher rates of spending in U.S.
Simple Meals U.S.
Beverages and North America Foodservice.
Excluding the impact of current quarter restructuring programs our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 210 basis points to 36.7%.
The decline was primarily attributable to the impact of the acquisition of Bolthouse which operates with a lower gross margin structure.
Excluding that acquisition the impacts of cost inflation and increased promotional spending were largely offset by productivity improvements the benefit of higher selling prices and favorable mix.
The inflation rate in cost of goods was approximately 3% for the quarter.
Marketing and selling expenses increased by 2% to $262 million compared to $256 million a year ago.
The increase was primarily driven by the impact of the addition of Bolthouse higher spending to support innovation efforts and higher selling expenses partly offset by lower advertising and consumer promotion spending.
Despite a 7% decline in advertising and consumer promotion expense primarily due to U.S.
Soup we had increased spending in Pepperidge Farm and we continue to support our new product introductions.
Our advertising in Simple Meals remains at competitive levels.
Administrative expense increased $28 million to $172 million primarily due to the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms and higher incentive compensation costs.
Net interest expense increased by $4 million.
The increase was due to the higher level of debt incurred to fund the acquisition.
Average interest rates on our total debt portfolio were lower.
The adjusted tax rate increased by 20 basis points to 26.3%.
The current and prior year quarters both benefited from adjustments to reflect lower taxes on foreign earnings.
The tax rate in the quarter was lower than the previous forecast and I'll speak to the impact on the year when I address guidance.
Adjusted net earnings increased by 8% and adjusted net earnings per share increased to $0.62 for the quarter reflecting EBIT growth higher interest expense and a small decline in diluted shares outstanding.
Third quarter segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on Slide 25.
Our U.S.
Simple Meals segment achieved strong sales growth of 11%.
Within the segment U.S.
Soup sales rose by 14% driven by double-digit gains in ready-to-serve condensed and broth.
U.S.
Sauce sales increased 3% compared to the prior year as gains in Prego pasta sauce and Pace Mexican sauces were partly offset by declines in Campbell's canned pasta.
Sales also benefited from the introduction of Campbell's Skillet Sauces.
Our Global Baking and Snacking segment also achieved strong organic sales growth up 6% with increases in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
The sales increase in Pepperidge was driven by growth across fresh bakery crackers and cookies.
Frozen sales declined.
In the bakery business we continue to benefit from the market exit by Hostess with volume gains across most of the portfolio.
The snacks business had another strong quarter reflecting solid growth in Goldfish snack crackers and a strong sales performance in cookies.
Sales at Arnott's increased primarily due to sales growth in Australia in savory crackers and sweet cookie varieties and strong results in Indonesia.
Organic sales for our International Simple Meals and Beverages segment increased 3% compared to the prior year.
Strong sales gains in Europe and Latin America and growth in the Asia Pacific region were partly offset by declines in Canada.
Sales in Europe increased due to volume gains in Germany France and Belgium.
In Asia Pacific sales increased due to growth in Malaysia Hong Kong and Japan partially offset by sales declines in Australia.
Sales for the Bolthouse Farms and North America Foodservice segment were $344 million with Bolthouse contributing $205 million.
Organic sales excluding the acquisition declined 10% compared to a year ago.
The sales decline in North America Foodservice reflects the loss of a major restaurant customer and continued higher levels of promotional spending in our core Foodservice business.
U.S.
Beverage sales decreased by 5% in the quarter primarily due to the decline in V8 Vegetable Juice.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals on Slide 27 increased significantly up 30% to $156 million this quarter as we continue to improve the profitability of this business.
The increase reflected strong earnings gains in U.S.
Soup partly offset by a decline in U.S.
Sauces which included investments in new products.
Within the segment the benefit of higher volumes increased selling prices and productivity improvements were partly offset by increased promotional spending.
Earnings at Global Baking and Snacking were comparable to prior year.
Growth at Arnott's was offset by the impact of currency.
For the segment higher sales were offset by increased marketing spend and administrative costs.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings increased by 8% primarily due to higher earnings in Europe.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages decreased by 27% primarily due to lower volume on 100% juice varieties cost inflation and increased promotional spending.
Operating earnings within Bolthouse and Foodservice segment increased by $7 million composed of a $17 million addition from Bolthouse Farms and a significant decrease in earnings from North America Foodservice.
As with sales decline -- as with the sales decline the earnings decline in Foodservice is driven by a customer loss and higher trade spending.
Bolthouse Farms is delivering results that are consistent with our acquisition plan.
U.S.
Soup sales for the third quarter increased 14% driven by double-digit gains in each of the 3 large categories.
Sales of condensed soup rose 11% driven by double-digit gains in eating varieties which benefited from increased promotional activity and price realization.
Ready-to-serve soup increased 18% primarily due to significant volume-driven gains in Campbell's Chunky canned soups.
Chunky performed extremely well in the quarter benefiting from new varieties increased promotional activity and a return to NFL advertising.
Sales also benefited from the launch of Campbell's Go soups.
Broth sales increased 18% benefiting from higher levels of promotional activity which drove double-digit volume gains in aseptic broth.
Our measured consumer takeaway in the quarter was a robust 10% ahead of category growth.
Sales also benefited from an increase in resale inventories.
Year-to-date U.S.
Soup sales increased 5% primarily driven by a 9% increase in ready-to-serve soup.
Sales of condensed increased 2% compared to the prior year while broth sales increased 3%.
U.S.
Soup consumer takeaway for the first 9 months was up about 4%.
On the next slide we look at our market share and category performance based on the past 52 weeks for the U.S.
wet soup category.
The category as a whole rose by 4%.
Our sales in measured channels rose 3.4% with gains driven by ready-to-serve soup condensed and Swanson broth.
As Denise mentioned improved execution and the benefit of a colder winter have contributed to very healthy growth.
Campbell's had a 59% market share in the wet soup category which includes condensed soup ready-to-serve and broth.
All other branded players collectively held a share of 28% with a 13% private label share.
These figures are sourced from SymphonyIRI's multi-outlet report and are based on dollar sales.
A brief recap of year-to-date results begins on Slide 30.
In the first 9 months we reported net sales of $6.8 billion an 11% increase from the prior year primarily driven by the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms.
Organic net sales increased by 2%.
The organic sales gain was largely driven by growth in U.S.
Simple Meals and Baking and Snacking partly offset by declines in North America Foodservice and U.S.
Beverage.
Excluding restructuring and acquisition transaction costs adjusted EBIT increased 6% to $1.1 billion.
4 points or $46 million of the increase was attributable to the Bolthouse operating results.
While 2 points of the growth came from the base business primarily driven by earnings gains in U.S.
Simple Meals partly offset by declines in North America Foodservice.
Year-to-date adjusted earnings per share were $2.19 an 8% increase versus the prior year.
The increase reflected EBIT growth the benefit of a lower tax rate and fewer shares outstanding partly offset by higher interest expense.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined 170 basis points year-to-date to 37.2%.
The addition of Bolthouse drove most of that change.
Excluding the acquisition the impact of cost inflation and increased promotional spending were largely offset by productivity improvements and the benefit of higher selling prices.
The inflation rate and cost of goods sold was approximately 3% year-to-date.
Marketing and selling expense were $813 million essentially flat to the prior year.
Our planned reduction in marketing spend principally a 12% reduction in advertising and consumer promotion expenses offset the impact of Bolthouse Farms and the higher selling expense for the total company.
Administrative expenses for the quarter increased by $65 million primarily due to the acquisition and to higher compensation and benefit cost including increases in pension expense.
Net interest expense year-to-date increased by $14 million due to the higher level of debt to fund the acquisition.
The adjusted tax rate declined 9 basis points to 30.3% primarily due to the resolution of state tax matters and recent changes in U.S.
tax law.
Consistent with EBIT growth adjusted net earnings for the first 9 months increased 6%.
Adjusted EPS benefiting from fewer shares outstanding increased by 8%.
Cash flow from operations was $864 million fiscal year-to-date compared with $838 million in the prior year.
Higher cash earnings and lower benefit plan distributions were partly offset by increased working capital requirements.
Capital expenditures of $205 million were up from $173 million a year ago.
For the year we continue to forecast capital spend of approximately $330 million.
As we previously announced we suspended the strategic share repurchase program at the end of fiscal 2012 in order to reduce the debt incurred to finance the Bolthouse acquisition.
However we continue to repurchase additional shares to offset dilution from equity compensation programs.
Net debt rose to $3.8 billion an increase of $1.4 billion due to the acquisition partly offset by cash generation.
For the first 9 months the company paid dividends of $366 million including an acceleration of the payment normally made in late April or early May.
This morning we revised our previous fiscal 2013 guidance.
We now expect to grow sales at the upper end of the 10% to 12% range and adjusted EBIT at the upper end of the 4% to 6% range.
The adjusted EPS benefiting from a lower-than-expected tax rate and the improved EBIT outlook is expected to exceed the previous range forecast of 3% to 5%.
We now expect EPS to grow between 6% and 7% in the range between $2.58 and $2.62.
We are now forecasting a full year tax rate of between 30% and 31%.
Our guidance includes the estimated impact of Bolthouse Farms and excludes the impact of acquisition transaction costs and restructuring charges.
The Bolthouse Farms acquisition is expected to contribute approximately $750 million to sales and approximately $0.06 to our adjusted EPS including the impact of suspending the strategic share repurchases.
Thank you.
With that I'll now turn it back to Jennifer.
Thank you Craig.
At this time we will conduct the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Sean? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to focus on the rest of your business aside from Soup.
I think you've addressed some of the weakness in Beverages and Foodservice.
I want to focus on the Baking side of the business.
Top lines look great but year-to-date there's been no bottom line growth.
Can you help us understand some of the drivers of the margin weakness there? Yes.
In the Global Baking and Snacking segment we have continued to cycle.
If you'll recall last year we had a very difficult year in Australia.
We essentially reset trade spending levels in that market.
And through the first 3 quarters of this year we have been cycling against that reduction and then against lower gross margins.
The Pepperidge business has performed at a stronger rate than that through the first 3 quarters and we are -- I guess we're probably about flat in gross margin at Pepperidge through the first 3 quarters of the year.
Research Division</strong> When are you done cycling that Australian trade spend adjustment? And also if you could comment a little bit on sort of wheat cost here where your inflation number sit and what the outlook is going forward? Yes.
So we should finish cycling the Australian trade adjustment in the fourth quarter.
We should -- yes in the fourth quarter.
And if you look at the inflation forecast this year of course has been a tough one on flours and grains particularly in the early part of the year.
I think as we look forward we would expect although it's a little early to tell in terms of timing of crops and whatnot we would expect a more normal inflation rate in those businesses next year.
Our next question comes from Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess in Campbell's base business excluding Bolthouse perhaps if I'm doing my math right maybe the gross margin was still down a bit in the quarter despite a really strong obviously top line performance from the high margin Soup business.
Final part of that is obviously trends in Beverages and Foodservice.
But trying to get a bit of additional color maybe on the magnitude of gross margin and the change in the Soup and Simple Meals segment just to give us some comfort that the operating leverage that one would expect from that type of sales growth in Soup was what we'd expect it to be or wasn't compromised in any way.
Yes.
So gross margin on Soup and Simple Meals did show a positive impact of the leverage that you'd be looking for.
We don't disclose precisely but it was up over 150 basis points in the quarter.
And you're right the things that were depressing the gross margin x Bolthouse would've been NAFs and U.S.
Beverage both of which had pretty significant declines in both -- in gross margin largely related to increased promotional spend.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question goes -- I think Denise maybe it was your comment about -- or maybe it was Craig's about consumption being less than shipments.
Is it your sense that -- is this a timing issue year-over-year given the -- how warm it was a year ago? Or is this have to do with the retailers being a little bit more optimistic about the category? Obviously with your share you've got good visibility into what's going on in the shelf.
So maybe you could talk a little bit about that excess inventory.
Yes.
So measured consumption was about 10% sales were about 14%.
That implies -- and the tracking data that we have where we help manage inventory would say that retailer inventories were up a bit.
I think the good news is that most of that inventory was and is on the floor and we would expect to be moving.
It's always a little difficult to forecast.
You asked if it was a timing issue difficult to forecast the fourth quarter.
It's such a small quarter.
And inventories are certainly going to drop in the fourth quarter and the question is how much they drop relative to what they dropped last year.
But you'd probably expect some of that to come back in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And so you don't sense that it -- because I think we've gone through several years of inventory declines at retail as the category has shrunk.
It isn't -- you don't think it's a -- well I mean granted you're going into the summer but you don't think it's a function of the retailers becoming a little bit more optimistic about shelf space? Well I think the really strong sales in the quarter have sort of a natural inflationary impact on inventories.
I mean sales were terrific.
They were beyond our own expectations.
I think they were probably beyond the retailer expectations.
And so as you went through the quarter I think you saw higher order rates and maybe some of that will stick Eric.
But retailers have got -- I think the primary reason you've seen inventories drop is that retailers have gotten better and better at managing inventory and we've gotten -- we continue to have really high service levels and are reliable and so they feel like they can operate on thinner inventories.
Research Division</strong> And if I could just -- last follow-up.
Denise you sounded a bit more cautious about the new products versus the last couple of calls.
Was there like any of the inventory build in the soup to-go line? Is it that material that it could have had an impact? Or maybe you can just address how much more spending do you think is necessary to get trial up on -- or sorry repeat up on the products? Yes.
If I came across as cautious that's really not the right tone I was trying to set.
I'm actually very optimistic about the platforms of the pouched Go soups and also the dinner sauce segment.
What I was sharing with you were some of the lessons learned from this year's season.
Because one of the things that we do in running an innovation agenda is we track what went right and what didn't and what can we learn from it and then how do we reapply so we get better in the next round.
And so we've got very very very high hopes for these platforms and we believe they'll continue to build over time.
The thing that I really watch is the repeat rate because right now the challenge we have is just to build trial because the repeat is really strong.
So those that do try it buy it.
And what we also are seeing is that it is attracting affluent consumers and more Millennials which was what the objective was.
And that's been highly incremental to the franchise.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Just one follow-up to Andrew's question on the Soup margins.
Can you just say again was it volume leverage that predominantly drove the margin expansion or was it better balance on pricing inflation -- and inflation Craig? Largely volume David.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then my main question is just on advertising and consumer promotion.
So it's somewhat odd perhaps to see just the incredible performance of Soup and then in conjunction with that the comments that A&amp;C spending are down on Soup.
So Denise can you talk about the A&amp;C spending on Soup? Can we -- can you reduce it further because some of it would apparently maybe be just ineffective? So is there just A&amp;C that we can cut out that wasn't really doing anything but yet this Soup business with the new products and other activities can continue to grow? I would largely agree with your assessment.
I think that you can expect that advertising in fiscal '14 will not be higher as a percent of sales on the base business but we will continue to be advertising at competitive levels and I'm talking about the Soup and Simple Meals business here.
And we will be funding and advertising our new product innovation.
We have and continue to eliminate unproductive spending.
And I also believe that we have made incredible strides in terms of the effectiveness of our advertising.
And the example is Chunky soup where we did return to the NFL-themed advertising and that resonated very well with consumers.
But I think advertising has to be viewed as only a part of the marketing mix.
I mean we've made quality improvements.
We've had new varieties that have added some news to the base and excitement and we've also had much more effective promotion on the brands.
So I think all in all advertising is finding its way in the marketing mix.
But David I wouldn't expect to see further significant cuts in advertising as we move forward.
As Denise said I don't think we'll restore the spending because it looks like what we're doing is working.
And of course we'll continue to look for where there's ineffective spending to cut that out.
But I think if you think about it in terms of total level probably not big reductions left.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> If I could just ask what your thoughts are right now on the international M&amp;A environment just given sort of your prior commentary on opportunities to grow into geographic adjacencies.
And one housekeeping item if you could provide your D&amp;A number for the quarter? So I think the question on the international environment for M&amp;A is as we've said a number of times before we do believe that we can find opportunities internationally to get us into markets that for the long term sustainability of growth for the business would be good for us because they're faster-growing markets than our core markets.
I think that we've also said and it also continues to be true there are not a huge number of targets out there and the targets that are out there tend to be pretty hotly contested.
We have a pipeline.
We started working that pipeline as we -- as Denise came in to the CEO position and we sort of shifted our focus on M&amp;A.
We have -- you haven't seen us make an international acquisition yet and that's largely a result of the fact that we're going to be pretty disciplined as we look at these things.
Some of them take time because they're family-owned businesses and it's a matter of building relationships and waiting for the moment when the family is ready to exit and sell.
So we keep working at it we continue to be disciplined.
We think we'll eventually land some good opportunities but obviously not going to comment on any specific situation.
Right.
To build on that in addition to M&amp;A we are also pursuing partnerships where they make sense.
So for example our partnerships in Mexico with Jumex and La Costeña to do a distribution and manufacturing agreement for the Beverage business and the Soup and Simple Meal business is pretty exciting for us.
So we'll continue to look for those opportunities as well.
To address your last question the depreciation and amortization for the 9 months is about $318 million and that's up significantly versus the prior year because it includes accelerated depreciation on our restructuring programs and also includes Bolthouse Farms.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Denise you basically announced the Soup business stabilized today.
But where would you have to get the U.S.
Beverage business to make that same kind of announcement? Is there any kind of top line growth rate or margin target that you have in mind? And if so which one would be more important top line or margin? I'm not really giving guidance on the Soup business going forward at this point in terms of a number.
But suffice it to say that we believe that we've focused on fixing the fundamentals on better execution on a better optimization of the drivers of demand and a better understanding of the portfolio rules for these brands.
And we believe that -- we can say we've stabilized and now we're going to profitably grow as we go forward.
Yes.
I think on the beverage business Thilo the -- clearly we are -- as Denise said in her opening we're not happy with the declines.
Part of it is category.
The category shelf-stable juice has been very weak.
Clearly we're doing better with portions of that category.
Our premium -- super premium fresh juices out of Bolthouse are doing very very well.
Our Splash entry in less than 100% juice is doing well.
But the core of our business and the core of our profitability the red juice business and the V8 V-Fusion business have not done well.
I guess by definition stability would be to arrest the decline.
But we think that over time the beverage business can grow.
Our next question comes from Rob Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just did some quick weather math trying to look at the number of heating days year-to-date 2013 and it looked like the number of heating days really weren't that different from 2011 '10 and '09.
It really was 2012 was the anomaly.
So I guess -- I know you said it's hard to predict or hard to estimate the impact of whether but would you say that this was kind of a normal weather year or was it a colder-than-usual weather year 9 months year-to-date? Yes.
So it is both hard to predict and to quantify the impact of weather.
And frankly it's not something that we control so we don't spend a lot of time focused on it.
But if you just look at temperature swing right you're right last year was the more unusual year.
It was a very warm winter.
This year has actually been slightly colder than normal.
So the swing is about an 8-degree swing using the numbers that we have and it has an impact.
I mean it's undeniable that it has a positive impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly on the dividend I haven't -- have you looked at raising the dividend? And if -- and normally it happens in fourth quarter I thought.
What's your status there? We have not announced any change to the dividend don't intend to announce any change to the dividend in this call.
It's an issue that the board continues to look at.
If you think about over the last couple of years Rob we were down on earnings last year as we went through an intentional reset.
We did not decrease the dividend.
We held the dividend and we've held it as we've sort of grown back to the prior level this year.
I think I would look certainly to next year we would expect to continue a positive trend and we would reconsider the dividend at that time.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Feeney with Janney.
Research Division</strong> I guess I just wanted to follow up on the line -- on Rob's line of questioning a little bit.
I know Craig it's difficult to quantify and certainly not something you can control on the weather.
But are there like -- how about an 8-degree swing like you clearly have some methodology internally for thinking about benchmarking performance versus weather.
If I were going to try to go back and look either within seasons and say adjust I mean can you think of a methodology the best way to do that? Do you look at days below 50 degrees or days below 40 degrees? And how does that vary across markets? Jonathan I think the question itself sort of points to the difficulty right? You have to get really granular.
In other words what parts of the country? What population centers? What was the weather change in specific geographies? And when did it occur? And honestly that kind of dissection of weather is just -- I mean frankly we don't do it right? And it's just not that useful because it's not something that we control.
So again at a high level you can look at the numbers and you can say it had a positive impact no question about it.
We're going to keep our head down and keep working on the things that we do control.
And we absolutely do not believe that weather was the primary driver of the improvement that we've seen.
We think it's all the other things that we've been talking about and you saw good share performance for example which is independent of weather and some other things that I think point to the fact that we're making some improvement.
So we just -- I don't see the value of going as deeply as you'd have to go.
And frankly I think even once you got there you wouldn't know much more than we know at the high level.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just one quick follow-up if you wouldn't mind while we're on the topic of weather and seasonality.
Is there seasonality to the margin of Bolthouse Farms? Or is this what appears to be 8% or so margin a good run rate going forward at the EBIT line? Yes there's not -- I mean yes there's not much seasonality in the Bolthouse business I don't think.
If you think about their product line it's -- the impact of weather I think is pretty minimal.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Denise so can you talk a bit more to the learnings you've gained during the first few quarters of bringing Skillet Sauces to market particularly around in-store positioning and merchandising? And you talked about having a clearer understanding but can you give us a sense of what your target or objectives are going forward? And just quick follow-up on that do you feel that you still have a good first mover advantage in that category because it seems like a lot of competitors have moved very quickly? And in order to maintain any advantage do you really need to keep the level of innovation coming very quickly? Yes.
Well first of all we do know that it is more difficult to create new market segments.
And what happened in the execution of Skillet Sauces is it was shelved in multiple store locations and what that did was it impacted the reset timings to cut the product end.
So as a result we had a slower ACV build in some retailers than originally planned.
The other thing is because it was shelved in multiple locations it was more difficult for the consumer to find it and more difficult for us to say where it was in our marketing couple that with the fact that marketing started in quarter 2.
But since we started the marketing we have seen a pickup in the sales so that's encouraging.
So we feel that we'll be working with retailers in 2014 on building out a dinner sauce segment in the store and we'll talk more about how we're going to do this at Analyst Day.
There have been some others that have come into the category.
We believe that will add some scale to the segment and we believe that our execution within that segment with Skillet Sauces and the new Slow Cooker will continue to give us the innovation to maintain the competitive advantage.
Our next question comes from Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So this is a question on advertising spending on the new products.
From memory I seem to remember that the advertising budget overall was down a bit this year as you shifted the emphasis more into cheaper digital advertising on the new products and I think that was to target younger consumers.
I guess going forward are you planning to step up to more traditional TV advertising on those products? And is it possible that by using the digital approach you may not have reached maybe some older consumers who might not be exactly the target audience but could still be a meaningful part of the sales base? And as a real quick follow-up if I can sneak it in are you able to parse apart the U.S.
Soup pricing and volume this quarter? Let me take the first part of your question first.
Yes we are planning on introducing TV advertising into the marketing mix on the new products.
And we have seen that in addition to attracting Millennials and affluent consumers the products are having broader appeal than what we expected and that's a good thing.
So the TV advertising does make sense.
And then the -- I'm sorry what was the acceptance about Soup pricing? Yes.
So the second one on Soup pricing as you remember we had a list price increase on condensed soup coming into the year.
The impact across the total Soup category for us was about 2% in the quarter that would've been fully offset by increases in promotional spending.
So net realized price was about flat.
Our next question comes from David Palmer of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Congrats on the core Soup sales strength this season.
I was wondering if you could dig in to the reasons for this a little bit more.
Obviously we've talked about the percentage point lift to Simple Meals sales from innovation.
Obviously you also had the step-up in the frequency of promotions this year that was I guess partly funded by the advertising dollar spend.
There was the weather there was new Chunky advertising reformulations I guess at the margin which I guess are more of a focus going forward.
Could you almost prioritize these things as you head -- not just look back on fiscal '13 but looking forward how these proportions might shift in terms of the lift that you see to the Simple Meals segment? It was a combination of all of the above.
I think that the sustaining innovation that we had on the Chunky soup was very impactful.
It added new varieties and new news to the base and these have been incredibly strong.
And you couple that with the NFL-themed advertising.
And like I said in my upfront I believe that that really resonated with consumers.
And I don't think it's any one thing.
When we talk about optimizing the drivers of demand that can look a little bit different by brand depending upon where that brand is.
So we're going to continue on that program.
Our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to follow up on the last question that was asked.
Can you -- when you said 1 point was driven by innovation I'm assuming that doesn't include innovation on other products and reformulations.
Can you -- so first of all am I right on that? And secondly can you just talk more broadly about new products as a percentage of sales this quarter? That would be helpful.
Yes.
But we talk about innovation in 2 ways we talk about sustaining innovation which is news to the base.
It's typically new varieties or line extensions.
When we talk about breakthrough innovation it's more disruptive it's harder and it's designed to capture new consumer segments new occasions or new usages.
And so we do both and we talk about both.
But in the innovation that I just talked about with -- it was really focused on Go soup and Skillet Sauces which were more in the camp of breakthrough innovation.
Research Division</strong> Any -- can you give us a sense of of that 10% sort of takeaway growth this quarter how much came from the other sort of sustainable innovation? I mean are you seeing better repeat rates or are you doing more trial? I'm just trying to get a sense of what's driving the consumption growth just to get a sense of why it could be more sustainable.
I think one thing we can say on the Chunky business where we had the most significant number of new varieties that that's a very impactful part of the growth of Chunky soup.
It's harder for us to measure more broadly across the sort of Soup portfolio but the incrementality of any specific item is on a quarterly basis.
But the primary reason we don't break that out the way you're asking for it is because it's really difficult to quantify the cannibalization of a formula change or a new product.
I think we'll come back probably at the analyst meeting and talk more broadly about the progress we're making and the contribution that that is making to sales from our total innovation program.
Yes.
And in total we're measuring innovation as a percent of sales on a rolling 3 so we'll be able to share some of that by category with you at Analyst Day.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Craig in terms of Global Baking and Snacking it sounds as though there's really not a lot out there in terms of acquisition targets right now.
But how much more can you do in terms of maybe joint ventures or even leaning on your Indonesian business more to drive a larger footprint in Snacking over in China.
Is that something that you're considering or is it less a priority right now for you? No it's absolutely something that we're considering.
In fact one of the things that we have done as we talked about broadening our footprint in emerging markets we've been very active.
Now realistically they're pretty small right? If you look at Indonesia Malaysia Mexico.
But we've been very active.
You saw us announce a deal for our Soup and Beverage business to really restructure the way we're coming at it in Mexico and broaden our distribution depth very significantly in that market on Beverages.
Likewise we have been investing pretty heavily in our Indonesian business and been seeing a really robust growth rate in that business because of that investment.
We're also looking at export models and the possibility and ability to move some of that product.
We already have some export out of the Indonesian business but looking at whether we can expand that in Southeast Asia.
So all of those things are on the table.
I don't want to overstate them in terms of their size because they're still pretty small.
But we're looking at all of those avenues.
Thanks everybody for hanging on an extra couple of minutes.
Sorry we didn't get to absolutely everyone but we appreciate you for joining us for our third quarter earnings call and webcast.
If you missed any of our call the replay will be available in about 2 hours by calling 1 (703) 925-2533.
The replay passcode is 1614133.
If you're a reporter and have questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at (856) 342-3737.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
This concludes today's program.
Have a great week.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Company Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference is being recorded for replay purposes.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Ms.
Jennifer Driscoll.
Ma'am you may begin.
Thanks Mary.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
Denise will kick us off today in a couple of minutes with her perspective on the full year as we continue to pursue our dual mandate.
Craig will then give you the financial and segment results for the fourth quarter our full year highlights and expectations for fiscal 2014.
After that we'll take your questions.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com and on our IR app which is available through Google or Apple.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
As a reminder our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to Slide 3 in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements.
This morning we showed for the first time the results of our European simple meals business as discontinued operations.
Its assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale.
We also completed our annual testing of goodwill and intangibles for impairment resulting in a significant noncash charge related to certain European goodwill and brands.
In addition we recognized an incremental tax charge in earnings from discontinued operations.
Let me elaborate just a bit on each of those items before we move forward.
First given the potential sale of the European business representing its fiscal 2013 results as discontinued operations and restating fiscal 2012 results accordingly.
This business previously had been included in the International Simple Meals and Beverages segment.
Discontinued operations had $532 million in sales last year adjusted EBIT of $65 million and $0.16 of contribution to adjusted EPS.
We plan to provide you with discontinued operations historical results by quarter for fiscal 2013 and 2012 on our website in September.
It may help to see how our adjusted results translate to reported EPS shown here on Slide 5.
I already covered accretion from discontinued ops showed in the middle column.
Per my second point lower in the middle column you see that our annual testing of goodwill and intangibles resulted in a noncash impairment charge in the fourth quarter of $0.83 per share related to intangible assets in the European business.
We also recorded a tax charge of $0.06 per share on earnings from discontinued operations related to the potential sale.
Turning now to matters impacting continuing operations.
Looking at the far left column in fiscal 2013 the company reported pretax restructuring charges and restructuring-related costs in cost of products sold associated with initiatives to improve our U.S.
supply chain cost structure and increase asset utilization across our U.S.
thermal plant network; to expand access to manufacturing and distribution capabilities in Mexico; to improve our Pepperidge Farm bakery supply chain cost structure; and reduce overhead costs in North America the latter 2 being in the fourth quarter.
The aggregate impact of the restructuring initiatives was $0.28 per share on earnings from continuing operations.
Campbell also completed the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms one week into fiscal 2013.
The acquisition created not only large year-over-year changes in sales and EBIT but it also resulted in $0.02 of acquisition transaction costs shown on the far left column.
The majority of our remarks on our call today will focus on results from continuing operations on an adjusted basis including Bolthouse Farms operating results for 51 of the 52 weeks but excluding transaction costs and restructuring charges.
We appreciate your patience in parsing out all of these different items this morning.
Since our presentation includes several non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly financials also can be found on our website accessible online of course or on your mobile device with the Campbell IR app.
I've got one more thing to plug.
We would like to cordially invite you to hear our webcast presentation by Denise Morrison Anthony DiSilvestro and me on September 4 at the Barclays Back-to-School conference in Boston.
Campbell's presentation will begin at 1:30 p.m.
Like this earnings call it will be available live on the web and then later as an archived audio cast.
You can find it at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com under News &amp; Events then just click on Recent Webcasts &amp;; Presentation.
And with that long intro let me turn it over to Denise.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining Campbell's fourth quarter earnings call.
Before we begin let me lay out our agenda for the call this morning.
I'll begin with my perspective on our 2013 full year results and the plethora of actions we have taken to reshape our portfolio for a stronger growth trajectory.
This will provide context for our 2014 guidance ranges and the path we are pursuing to return Campbell to sustainable profitable net sales growth.
Craig Owens will follow with a more detailed review of our fourth quarter and full year results and our guidance and then we'll take your questions.
I'm pleased with the results that we are reporting this morning.
Full year sales and EBIT were in line with our revised guidance and EPS exceeded the high end of our guidance.
As Craig will explain in greater detail those numbers reflect the combined results of continuing and discontinued operations and excludes special items.
Although I'm encouraged by these results there is much more work ahead of us and challenges that we must address to build an even stronger foundation for sustainable growth.
We've talked many times over the last 2 years about our 3 growth strategies: profitably grow North America Soup and Simple Meals expand our international presence and continue to drive growth in Snacks and Healthy Beverages.
We've also outlined the significant investments that we are making in brand building innovation and external development.
And we said that our strategic framework translates into a dual mandate: to strengthen our core business and expand into higher growth spaces.
Today I think it's fair to say that Campbell has made progress as we've executed our dual mandate.
We're doing what we said we would do with a resolute focus on the future of our company.
The centerpiece of our progress in strengthening our core business was the performance of U.S.
Soup which delivered 5% sales growth this year by optimizing the drivers of demand and accelerating consumer-focused innovations.
Sales of ready-to-serve soups grew 9% condensed soups were up 2% and broth grew 4% led by the strong performance of Campbell's Chunky soup.
Chunky's exceptional momentum was driven by the launch of new varieties and our decision to return the brand's marketing focus to its core consumer males with a big appetite for NFL football and satisfying soup.
We grew our iconic Campbell's condensed soup a $1.1 billion business with a wide array of offerings that appeal to a broad range of consumers particularly children families and baby boomers.
We enhanced the taste of our soups positioned them more distinctively in the marketplace and improved in-store execution.
We rebalanced and optimized advertising and consumer promotion behind our core brands.
We accelerated innovation launching 38 new soups during the year; and yes we had some help from the weather.
To drive the continued growth of this important core business you will see many great new products in the new fiscal year including Campbell's Homestyle soup a new ready-to-serve range.
We're also launching new pub-inspired varieties of Chunky and Clay Matthews of the Green Bay Packers is our newest Chunky's Mama's Boy.
In Global Baking and Snacking sales grew 4% for the year reflecting strong growth of our Pepperidge Farm business where sales of Goldfish crackers rose 6%.
Goldfish is a powerful brand that continues to expand after more than half a century.
We strengthened growth in our Pepperidge Farm cookie business by launching stronger marketing behind our Milano brand and introducing delicious new products like our soft Pepperidge Farm Dessert Shop cookies.
We grew share in fresh bakery with good performance in our Pepperidge Farm Swirl breads and as we effectively leverage expanded shelf space in the wake of the Hostess bankruptcy.
We're determined to retain most of that space in the new fiscal year.
You'll see many exciting new products to support the continued growth at Pepperidge Farm including Goldfish Puffs which are in-store now and new varieties of cookies.
We're taking steps to strengthen our Arnott's business in Australia with a focus on improving its capabilities and lowering costs.
Arnott's our third largest brand delivered strong sales growth in Indonesia.
I mentioned earlier that we must address our challenges in order to drive sustainable growth.
Quite frankly I was disappointed with the performance of our U.S.
Beverages and North America Foodservice businesses.
But we have a clear understanding of the issues impacting these businesses and what we need to do to get them back on track starting with our decision earlier this month to strengthen their leadership and management.
Sales in U.S.
Beverages were down 4% for the year reflecting declines in our V8 vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion juice and juice beverages.
Shelf-stable juices have faced intensified competition from the proliferation of specialty beverages including the dynamic growth of packaged fresh juices.
We are focused on improving our shelf-stable 100% juice business anchored by V8 which has unmatched credentials in vegetable nutrition.
We will reinvigorate our V8 business through a disciplined focus on the drivers of demand continued expansion in the growth segments of the category and relentless attention to cost management.
To reinvigorate growth we are introducing new products like V8 V-Fusion Refreshers a lighter fruit and vegetable beverage and we will continue to expand V8 V-Fusion + Energy and V8 Splash which delivered its seventh consecutive year of growth.
As we said at Analyst Day we are focusing on 3 key objectives for North America Foodservice: stabilizing our traditional foodservice business accelerating the growth of the packaged fresh business in the retail perimeter and innovating to change the game with national account customers.
We believe that we have a solid plan for improving our performance in Foodservice in the short term while laying the foundation for longer-term growth.
As we took action to strengthen our core business we also made tangible progress on the second part of our dual mandate: to expand into higher growth spaces.
We did this by driving breakthrough innovation and accelerating external development.
In fiscal 2013 our focus on breakthrough innovation contributed to our growth in new categories and segments.
To pursue growth in the nearly $200 billion dinner segment we introduced Campbell Skillet Sauces and we're building on that platform with the launch of new Campbell Slow Cooker Sauces.
To reach new consumers like millennials we continue to expand in the faster growing premium soup segment where we're driving innovation with Campbell's Slow Kettle Campbell's Bisques and new Campbell's Go Soups.
Fiscal 2013 was a banner year for acquisitions and strategic alliances that we believe will accelerate our future growth and change our direction in new and exciting ways.
We ended a trio of growth engines through our acquisition of Bolthouse Farms Plum Organics and the Kelsen Group.
These acquisitions have combined sales of approximately $1 billion and they give us exciting new brand platforms to create value and attract new consumers.
With net sales of $756 million for the year Bolthouse Farms delivered strong results that met our expectations.
It is a leader in the fast-growing $12 billion packaged fresh foods category with its super premium fresh beverages baby carrots and refrigerated salad dressings in the grocery store perimeter.
Bolthouse Farms has expanded our access to consumers who have a strong interest in fresh foods and health and wellness.
The combination of Bolthouse Farms and our iconic V8 franchise has given Campbell a $1.2 billion beverage platform that spans the full range from shelf-stable value offerings and mainstream products in the center of the store to packaged fresh super premium beverages in the retail perimeter.
We have the opportunity now to leverage this scalable platform in entirely new ways.
For example we are leveraging the capabilities of Bolthouse Farms to introduce V8 Harvest our first entry in packaged fresh juices with the V8 brand.
In the new fiscal year we will make advertising and consumer promotion investments behind Bolthouse Farms to drive brand awareness and build its differentiated positioning.
We will continue to launch new Bolthouse Farms products to fuel its robust innovation pipeline.
We also have a clear opportunity to expand this brand to new channels and immediate consumption outlets like convenience stores.
In June we acquired Plum Organics an innovative brand of premium organic simple meals and snacks for infants toddlers and young children.
Plum Organics gives us a growth platform in the premium organic segment of the $2 billion U.S.
baby food category a segment that grew at an average annual rate of 43% from 2010 to 2012.
With the #2 share in the organic baby food category Plum Organics also gives us access to millennial parents for whom organic nutrition is a high priority and it's a strategic fit with our $1 billion kids platform.
We plan to expand distribution of Plum Organics products to drive growth in fiscal 2014.
The acquisition of Kelsen which we completed earlier this month gives us a leading producer of premium cookies with annual net sales of $180 million and popular brands that are sold in 85 countries.
It expands our position in new geographies because approximately 1/3 of its sales are in China and Hong Kong where it is the market leader in the fast-growing assortment segment of the sweet biscuits category.
Kelsen also gives us a broader net distribution network in Asia South America the Middle East and Africa that will provide many potential routes to reach new consumers in the growing $60 billion global sweet biscuit market.
We see longer-term opportunities to leverage Kelsen's distribution network to expand our Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm brands in China and around the world.
We expect the acquisitions of Plum Organics and Kelsen to contribute approximately $300 million to our sales growth in fiscal 2014.
During the year we also entered into strategic alliances in Mexico to expand our access to manufacturing and distribution capabilities in this key market.
We expect these commercial agreements with Grupo Jumex the largest producer of fruit juices and nectars in Mexico and Conservas La Costeña to enhance our growth in beverages soups broth and sauce.
Since we are committed to expanding internationally I think it's important to share my perspective on why we have made a strategic choice involving the potential sale of our European simple meal business.
As we announced previously Campbell is in final and exclusive negotiations for the potential sale of its European simple meal business.
This potential transaction includes brands such as Liebig in France Erasco in Germany Blå Band in Sweden and DevosLemmens and Royco in Belgium.
The proposal also includes the sale of 4 plants in those countries.
We will continue to export Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's products throughout Europe and Campbell's products to the United Kingdom.
Kelsen which is based in Denmark will continue to sell its products in Europe.
In the short term the impairment charge for the European simple meals business was the reason our company posted a fourth quarter net earnings loss on a reported basis but we are committed to making strategic choices that are right for Campbell in the long run and this is the right choice.
Across our company we are focusing our brand building investments resources and talent on iconic brands that we believe we can grow around the world.
Our strategy is to build brand equity which will create value for our shareholders.
Consistent with our strategy we are investing in core brands like Campbell's Pepperidge Farm Goldfish Arnott's Prego Swanson and V8 and new businesses in faster-growing spaces like Bolthouse Farms Plum Organics and Kelsen.
All of the actions that we have taken to strengthen our core business and expand into faster growing spaces are reshaping our brand portfolio and shifting our center of gravity for a greater growth trajectory in the long term.
You can see that the direction of Campbell is changing a step at a time.
We're reshaping our portfolio which now features 10 powerful brands with sales of more than $100 million each led by our $2.1 billion Campbell brand.
We're building a more diversified portfolio with more growth engines.
Excluding Europe and including our 3 acquisitions we expect soup to account for about 1/3 of our sales this year versus more than 40% in fiscal 2012.
We are focusing on our 3 core categories but we've broadened our scope within each category to pursue faster-growing segments and adjacencies.
We're building new connections with multiple demographic groups and new generations of consumers.
We are seeking productivity opportunities to fund our growth and we are creating a high-performance culture leveraging our high engagement.
Looking ahead to our plans for fiscal 2014 we're focused on increasing sales from U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals Global Baking and Snacking and Bolthouse Farms; fixing our U.S.
Beverage business and North America Foodservice; accelerating innovation with the launch of more than 200 new products; expanding our availability in club dollar e-commerce and immediate consumption channels; increasing our packaged fresh offerings in the retail perimeter; driving international growth in new and existing markets with a strategic focus on Asia and Latin America; and pursuing smart external development.
In closing I'm excited about our direction and our progress as we focus forward with a strategic plan that is building momentum and delivering results.
We remain committed to achieving our long-term growth targets and we acknowledge that we have more work to do as we continue to reshape Campbell in a changing consumer and economic environment.
We are confident in our 2014 plan and committed to delivering it.
Thank you for the opportunity to share my perspective on Campbell's solid performance and our progress this year as we continue to execute our dual mandate.
I look forward to answering your questions following Craig's detailed review of our financial results and our guidance.
Thanks Denise.
Good morning everyone.
Thanks for being with us today.
I'm going to begin by discussing our fourth quarter results and segment highlights and I'll follow that with a review of our full year results and wrap up with a look at fiscal 2014 sales and earnings guidance.
As Jennifer mentioned my discussion will exclude the impact of all restructuring programs and acquisition transaction costs for the current and prior year as well as the impairment charges and tax adjustment related to our European business.
In August the company announced the potential sale of its European simple meals business.
This business was previously included in our International Simple Meals and Beverages segment which is now reported as a discontinued operation.
We will begin the review of the fourth quarter and fiscal year results with a look at the combined continued and discontinued operations and then focus on the results of the continuing operations.
So in the fourth quarter combined continuing and discontinued operations net sales increased by 13% to $1.8 billion reflecting the Bolthouse Farms and Plum acquisitions which contributed 11 and 1 point of growth respectively.
Adjusted EBIT increased 4% to $217 million and adjusted earnings per share were $0.45 a 10% increase from the fourth quarter of 2012 benefiting from EBIT growth and a favorable tax rate.
Moving now to our fourth quarter results from continuing operations.
We reported net sales of $1.7 billion a 13% increase reflecting the impact of Bolthouse Farms and Plum which added 13 points together.
Excluding the acquisitions and currency organic net sales increased by 1% with gains in Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Simple Meals partly offset by declines in International Simple Meals and Beverages and U.S.
Beverages.
Adjusted EBIT was comparable to a year ago at $208 million.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions EBIT declined by 7% due to higher incentive compensation expenses.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.43 an 8% increase from the fourth quarter of 2012 benefiting from a lower tax rate.
As you can see on Slide 32 after the contribution from Bolthouse and Plum the 1% growth in organic sales reflected 1 point of volume mix growth and 1 point of pricing offset by 1 point of promotional spending.
Currency had a negative 1 point impact due to the Australian dollar weakening against the U.S.
dollar.
The favorable volume mix reflects gains in our 2 largest segments: U.S.
Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking.
The pricing gains were primarily due to our list price increases on Arnott's biscuits and U.S.
condensed soup as well as increases in Pepperidge Farm.
These increases were partially offset by pricing declines in Mexico based on our new distribution business model.
The promotional spending variance is primarily due to the higher rates of spending in U.S.
Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 230 basis points to 36.7%.
The decline is primarily attributable to the impact of the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms which operates at a lower gross margin structure.
Excluding the acquisition the impact of cost inflation was mostly offset by productivity improvement.
The inflation rate in cost of goods sold was approximately 3% in the quarter.
Marketing and selling expenses were comparable to a year ago at $191 million.
Lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses were offset by the impact of the addition of Bolthouse.
Advertising and consumer promotion expense declined by 14% including decreases in U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Beverages.
Administrative expense increased $32 million to $195 million primarily due to higher incentive compensation costs compared to below target levels in the year-ago quarter and to the addition of Bolthouse Farms.
Net interest expense increased by $5 million to $30 million.
The increase was due to the higher level of debt incurred to fund the Bolthouse acquisition which was added at lower average interest rates than the total debt portfolio.
The adjusted tax rate decreased by 590 basis points in the quarter to 24.7%.
The decline in the tax rate was primarily due to lower state taxes and an increase in the U.S.
manufacturing deduction.
Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations increased 5% to $136 million benefiting from this lower tax rate.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased to $0.43 for the quarter.
Percent change on the chart was impacted by rounding.
Fourth quarter segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on Slide 35.
Our Global Baking and Snacking segment achieved strong organic sales gains up 5% driven by growth in Pepperidge Farm in Indonesia partly offset by declines in Arnott's Australia.
The strong sales gains in Pepperidge Farm reflected growth across fresh bakery crackers and cookies.
In the bakery business we continue to benefit from the market absence of Hostess with double-digit volume gains across sandwich bread and rolls.
The snacks business had another strong quarter including solid growth in Goldfish snack crackers and a strong sales performance in cookies.
Sales at Arnott's decreased primarily due to sales declines in Australia across sweet cookie and chocolate varieties partly offset by strong growth in Indonesia.
Our U.S.
Simple Meals segment delivered $493 million in sales including a $14 million contribution from the acquisition of Plum Organics.
U.S.
Simple Meals achieved strong organic sales growth of 4%.
Within the segment U.S.
Soup sales rose by 4% driven by gains in ready-to-serve soup and broth.
And U.S.
Sauce sales increased 4% also compared to the prior year driven by gains in Prego pasta sauce including new items in white sauces and red distinctive sauces.
Sales also benefited from Campbell's Skillet Sauce which was introduced in the first quarter.
Sales in the Bolthouse Farms and North America Foodservice segment were $300 million with Bolthouse contributing $185 million.
Organic sales excluding the acquisition declined 5% compared with a year ago.
This sales decline in North America Foodservice reflects the loss of a major restaurant customer and continued higher levels of promotional spending in our core Foodservice business.
Organic sales for the International Simple Meals and Beverage segment decreased by 5% compared to the prior year.
Sales declines in Latin America and the Asia Pacific region were partly offset by higher sales in Canada.
The Latin America decline is part of the new distribution -- is due to the new distribution arrangement in Mexico as we phase in ahead of the full change to the business model there.
In Asia Pacific sales declines in Australia were partially offset by gains in Malaysia.
U.S.
Beverage sales decreased 4% in the quarter primarily due to a decline in V8 vegetable juice.
Sales of V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash also declined in the quarter.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals increased by 6% to $110 million this quarter.
The increase reflected strong earnings gains in U.S.
Soup partly offset by a decline in U.S.
Sauce.
Within the segment the growth in operating earnings was primarily driven by productivity improvements and high volume -- at higher volumes sorry partly offset by increased promotional spending and higher administrative expenses.
Earnings in Global Baking and Snacking increased 1% to $84 million.
Strong earnings gains in Pepperidge Farm were partially offset by a decline in Arnott's and the unfavorable impact of currency.
For the segment higher sales were mostly offset by a lower gross margin percentage and increased administrative costs.
Operating earnings within Bolthouse and Foodservice increased by $15 million including a $17 million contribution from Bolthouse Farms and a decrease in earnings from North America Foodservice.
Bolthouse delivered results consistent with our acquisition plan.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages decreased by 20% primarily due to cost inflation and sales declines partly offset by productivity improvements.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings decreased by 22% to $14 million.
The decrease was primarily due to lower earnings in the Asia Pacific region and Mexico.
On Slide 38 you can see that U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter rose 4% driven by strong gains in ready-to-serve soup and broth.
Sales of condensed soup were comparable with a strong prior year quarter which had experienced 14% growth.
For the current quarter increases in cooking varieties were offset by decreases in eating varieties.
Ready-to-serve soup rose 9% primarily driven by volume gains in 100% Natural as we increased promotional activity in conjunction with the transition to Campbell's Homestyle Soups.
Sales also benefited from the first year sales of Campbell's Go Soups.
Broth sales increased by 13% primarily driven by double-digit gains in aseptic broth.
Campbell's measured consumer takeaway in wet soup for the quarter was up 3% ahead of category growth.
For the fiscal year U.S.
Soup sales increased 5% with gains across all 3 categories.
Condensed sales increased 2% for the year; ready-to-serve sales rose by 9% driven by volume gains in Chunky canned soup which benefited from new varieties increased promotional activity and the return to NFL advertising.
Broth increased 4% for the year.
U.S.
Soup consumer takeaway for the fiscal year rose about 4%.
On the next slide we take a look at our market share and U.S.
wet soup category performance in the past 52 weeks.
The category as a whole rose by 3.5%.
Our sales in measured channels rose 3.7% with gains driven by ready-to-serve soup condensed soup and broth.
Campbell had a 59% market share an increase of 10 basis points a better performance than prior year.
All other branded players collectively had a share of 28% with private label having a share of 13%.
These figures were sourced from SymphonyIRI multi-outlet reports and were based on dollar sales.
On the next slide you see the fiscal year -- the fiscal year results for continuing and discontinuing operations combined.
Net sales increased 11% to $8.6 billion reflecting our acquisitions of Bolthouse Farms and Plum.
Adjusted EBIT increased 6% to $1.3 billion.
Fiscal year adjusted earnings per share were $2.64 an 8% increase versus the prior year.
The increase reflected EBIT growth the benefit of lower tax rate and fewer shares outstanding partially offset by higher interest expense.
For the fiscal year in continuing operations we reported net sales of $8.1 billion a 12% increase from the prior year primarily driven by the acquisition of Bolthouse and Plum.
Organic net sales increased by 2%.
The organic sales gain was primarily driven by growth in U.S.
Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking partly offset by declines in North America Foodservice and U.S.
Beverages.
Adjusted EBIT increased 6% to $1.2 billion primarily due to the acquisition of Bolthouse which contributed $63 million of EBIT this year.
Excluding the acquisition EBIT was comparable to prior year reflecting sales growth and lower marketing expense offset by higher administrative expenses higher selling expenses a lower gross margin percentage and higher research and development expense.
Fiscal year adjusted earnings per share were $2.48 a 7% increase versus the prior year.
The increase reflected EBIT growth the benefit of a lower tax rate and fewer shares outstanding partially offset by higher interest expense.
For the fiscal year our reported net sales for continuing operations increased by 12% with acquisitions primarily Bolthouse contributing 11 points of growth.
Organic sales excluding acquisitions increased 2% reflecting 1 point of volume mix growth and 2 points of pricing partially offset by the negative impacts of increased promotional spending of 1 point.
You'll note that the detail does not add to the total due to rounding.
On a segment basis organic sales growth in Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Simple Meals was partially offset by declines in North America Foodservice and U.S.
Beverage.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined 190 basis points to 37.3%.
The decline was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms.
Excluding that the impact of cost inflation and increased promotional spending were mostly offset by productivity improvements and the benefit of higher selling price.
The inflation rate in cost of goods sold was approximately 3% as expected.
Marketing and selling expense increased by $6 million to $947 million.
The increase was driven by the addition of Bolthouse expenses and higher selling expense mostly offset by lower marketing spend principally reductions in advertising and consumer promotion expenses.
A&amp;C expense for fiscal 2013 declined 12% to $419 million compared with the prior year.
Administrative expense increased $97 million to $677 million primarily due to acquisitions and higher incentive compensation costs.
Net interest expense increased by $19 million for the year due to the higher level of debt to fund the Bolthouse acquisition.
The adjusted tax rate declined by 130 basis points to 29.8% primarily due to lower state taxes including the favorable resolution of certain matters and an increase in U.S.
manufacturing -- in the U.S.
manufacturing deduction.
Adjusted net earnings from the continuing operations increased 6% to $786 million driven by EBIT growth and a favorable tax rate partly offset by higher interest expense.
Adjusted EPS were $2.48 a 7% increase versus the prior year.
EPS benefited from 2 million fewer shares outstanding.
Fiscal year segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on Slide 45.
Sales of U.S.
Simple Meals increased by 4% with gains in both U.S.
Soup and U.S.
Sauce.
As mentioned earlier U.S.
Soup sales rose 5% driven by gains in ready-to-serve condensed and broth.
U.S.
Sauce sales grew by 3% primarily driven by growth in Prego pasta sauce and Pace Mexican sauces and the launch of Campbell's Skillet Sauce partially offset by lower sales in other Simple Meal products.
Global Baking and Snacking sales increased by 4% fueled by gains in Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's.
Pepperidge Farm sales increased on the strength of solid growth in fresh bakery and Goldfish snack crackers and sales gains in cookies.
Sales at Arnott's increased primarily due to gains in Indonesia.
Sales for the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment were $1.3 billion with Bolthouse contributing $756 million.
Organic sales excluding the acquisition declined 8% compared with a year ago.
The sales decline in Foodservice was primarily due to the loss of the major restaurant customer and higher levels of promotional spending.
International Simple Meals and Beverage sales were comparable to the prior year as gains in China Canada and Latin America were offset by sales declines in export and Asia Pacific.
Sales of U.S.
Beverages decreased 4% with sales declines in V8 vegetable juice and V8 V-Fusion which were partially offset by sales growth in V8 Splash.
Fiscal year operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals increased by 11% to $731 million.
The increase reflected strong earnings gains in U.S.
Soup partly offset by a decline in U.S.
Sauce which included investments in new products.
Within the segment the increase was primarily driven by a higher selling price and productivity savings partly offset by cost inflation.
Earnings of Global Baking and Snacking increased $1 million to $316 million reflecting growth in Pepperidge Farm mostly offset by lower earnings at Arnott's.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages decreased by 10% versus prior year primarily driven by lower sales and lower gross margin percentage partially offset by reduced advertising expense.
Operating earnings within the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment increased 36% or $31 million.
The increase included $63 million from the addition of Bolthouse Farms and a decrease in earnings for North America Foodservice driven by lower volumes and an increased promotional spend.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages earnings increased 2% compared to the prior year.
The rise in operating earnings is primarily due to China reflecting lower marketing expense partially offset by lower gross margin percentage.
Cash flow from operations was $1 billion for the fiscal year compared to $1.1 billion in the prior year.
The decline was primarily due to increased working capital requirements partially offset by higher cash earnings.
Capital expenditures of $336 million rose from $323 million a year ago.
As we previously announced we suspended the strategic share repurchase program at the end of fiscal 2012 in order to reduce the debt incurred to finance the Bolthouse acquisition.
However we continue to repurchase sufficient shares to offset dilution from equity compensation programs.
Net debt rose to $4.1 billion an increase of $1.7 billion primarily due to the acquisitions.
For the fiscal year the company paid dividends of $367 million.
Turning to Slide 48.
In fiscal 2014 we expect continuing operations to grow sales by 5% to 6% adjusted EBIT by 5% to 7% and adjusted EPS by 3% to 5% or $2.55 to $2.60 from a base of $2.48.
Fiscal 2014 comprises 53 weeks 1 additional week compared to 2013 the benefit of which is expected to be largely offset by the anticipated impact of currency translation.
We expect acquisitions to contribute approximately $300 million to sales growth 1 percentage point of EBIT growth and $0.02 of EPS.
In connection with the accounting for the new business model in Mexico we expect a decrease in both sales and cost of sales of approximately $40 million in the international segment with no impact on EBIT.
Thus our organic sales growth expectation is 2% to 3% with an additional 3 points of sales growth expected to come from acquisitions net of the impact in Mexico.
We continue to expect inflation in cost of products sold at 2% to 3% and productivity gains of approximately 3%.
Net interest expense is expected to be comparable with the prior year.
EPS growth reflects the impact of a significant increase in the tax rate which is estimated to return to a more typical range of 31% to 32% in fiscal 2014.
This guidance range assumes no share repurchase under our strategic share repurchase program in fiscal 2014.
We anticipate capital expenditures of approximately $350 million.
As we look ahead we expect the current retailer inventory levels and holiday timing may constrain sales growth in the first quarter.
In addition our significant new product launches and an associated increase in marketing spending are projected to put pressure on the first quarter's profit growth.
With that I'll turn it back to Jennifer.
Thank you Craig.
At this time Mary we're going to conduct our Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Mary? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Andrew Lazar from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Craig I'm wondering I guess why for both the fourth quarter and the full year even when you exclude the negative mix impact on gross margin from the addition of Bolthouse maybe why we haven't seen more significant gross margin expansion? Just because some of the high-margin businesses obviously did quite well over the course of this past year and in the fourth quarter meaning Simple Meals Pepperidge Farm and such.
So a little more color on that would be helpful.
Sure Andrew.
Certainly the success of soup this year has been a positive influence on gross margin.
A more negative influence would have been somewhat higher promotional spend for the year.
It brings us back to about flat at gross margin excluding the impact of rolling in the acquisition.
Research Division</strong> And any thoughts on just how that might look as we think forward for the year coming into '14 around gross margin? As we look at gross margin and I think maybe we said this at Analyst Day we see slightly mitigated inflationary pressure and we continue to forecast pretty good results from our enabler program and productivity savings.
Those should largely be offsetting.
We've got a price increase that we talked about in our condensed soup line.
That will not have quite as much positive impact as last year's increase because we have not moved up promotional price points.
So you've got some positives and some negatives.
I guess it would be slightly positive to gross profit as we look -- to gross margin as we look forward.
Our next question comes from Jason English from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to circle back on Europe.
I guess I was surprised by the profitability there and the impact on earnings.
Seems like you've given us all the bad but none of the potential good on this.
So can you talk a little bit about the magnitude of stranded [ph] costs the path to potentially working those down anticipated proceeds potential tax leakage and then use of that cash? So with respect to stranded costs there's about $10 million of overhead that has previously been associated with Europe so that's not included in the discounted (sic) [discontinued] ops line.
It moves back into corporate as we change the accounting there.
Since the deal has not been completed we are not disclosing at this point the sale price.
And as we look forward we expect assuming everything goes well with the consultation with works councils and government approvals that we would probably close the deal in the first quarter and then we'd have all the detail out on the sale proceeds and the tax impact there.
Research Division</strong> Okay I look forward to those details.
The $10 million of overhead and just staying on overhead I noticed admin expenses for the firm overall as a percentage of sales are at a decade high.
You're talking a lot about productivity.
Why aren't you going more aggressively after attacking some of these costs? Well so inside of the administrative costs particularly as you look at the quarter there's -- we're cycling last year below target incentive cost payments with higher payment levels this year.
We also have for the year as we look back higher pension expense and higher health benefit costs.
If you start to strip out some of those impacts we have what we would call good results in our SG&amp;A cost particularly at the corporate level.
And we continue to look at that.
If you think about productivity overall we had a great year in our enabler program inside of cost of sales.
We had -- we were right at 3% maybe slightly over 3% and would expect to be there again next year.
Our next question comes from Rob Dickerson from Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I guess the first simple question was did you give an interest expense guidance number for '14? I think we did not give an interest guidance number for '14.
It should be about flat to '13.
LLC</strong> Okay perfect.
And then I guess kind of a larger strategic question is just I know over time we've been pointing to kind of the weakness in soup.
'13 was an anomaly frankly on the sales side and Andrew just asked a question on the margin side.
But when Denise kind of points to the soup going from 40% to 1/3 of total sales I mean how do you think about that over the next 3 years or so on a margin basis just considering that is the highest margin area of the business? So as you act upon the dual mandate and move into these higher growth areas is the expectation that growth kind of post-'13 both on a sales and a profitability basis could be a little bit lower in soup? I'm just trying to get a little color on how you think about the potential negative margin mix as you move forward within the dual mandate.
Yes.
So I think it would be a mistake to focus on margin in exactly the way that you suggest there.
I mean we look at getting -- trying to optimize top line and bottom line growth.
The change in mix first of all the soup brands that we will potentially divest in Europe are at considerably lower margin than the soup brands that we have and continue to hold in the U.S.
business.
I think Europe's overall EBIT margin is around 12%.
And the businesses that we are adding while they are somewhat dilutive to margin the question is really whether they're adding top line and bottom line growth at returns that are good for the capital that we're investing in.
Really nothing that we've invested in is in any way cannibalistic against any of our core business.
So we're focused on growth top line and bottom line and we're very focused on return.
And then margins are of course an important metric and something that we look at constantly on an operational basis.
But I think to think about those sort of segment by segment is probably the better way to think about it.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then just a quick follow-up.
What you said about the 12% Europe margin and I believe we got an e-mail about that this morning as well it looked like the actual segment the full segment came in at like 11.9% it seemed like for the year plus or minus.
So is it fair to say that the margin in Europe for the segment could have actually been a little bit higher than the actual segment? So there could be some potential margin -- there can be a positive margin mix shift for soup globally.
But for that actual segment there could be a little bit of pressure in '14? I think it's very close right? The divested businesses are pretty much right on top of the margin for the total segment.
Our next question comes from Eric Katzman from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question one quick one on the follow-up to -- I think it was Jason's question.
So this $2.55 to $2.60 range that basically at this point doesn't assume any use of proceeds.
I assumed that would be to pay down debt post the sale of Europe.
Any tax benefit associated with that? Who knows? Or I guess whatever positive -- would that lean you towards the high end of the range once those -- once the sale goes through? So Eric in there there is about $0.01 of assumption on debt reduction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you've assumed some benefit or some of the divestiture proceeds et cetera but maybe not the stranded overhead exit? Yes.
I think we've taken -- in effect I think we've taken sort of the most conservative stance there as we've looked forward both with respect to the proceeds and their use as well as to the stranded overhead.
So the stranded overhead is still in there.
We intend to take some action to try to identify offsetting savings.
As you might imagine it's not so easy to directly find that stranded overhead in the corporate headquarters mix and take it out.
Europe was not that big a business for us.
There aren't many people at corporate that are directly associated with Europe.
So it's more a matter of finding offsetting savings than it is targeting Europe-related costs.
The other point to make is although we've assumed debt reduction in fiscal '14 all things the same.
It will accelerate the data which we'll return through share repurchase in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then to Denise I guess I'm a little -- just broader picture it seems as if a bunch of the food companies that have reported of late have kind of indicated a somewhat more sluggish consumer than maybe the -- a lot of the management teams had seen in the spring.
I guess I know you can't necessarily comment on Walmart specifically.
But our retail analyst was out there the other day and they were kind of suggesting a little bit more price aggressiveness to drive volume along with coordination on new products.
You're calling out today some excess inventory levels which will crimp the fiscal first quarter results.
So can you just kind of talk a little bit about kind of what you're seeing from the consumer as we move through the summer? Is the trade deloading issue kind of a reaction to the slower growth? And kind of how the portfolio then sets up for what seems like a somewhat tougher environment all of a sudden? Okay.
Eric I think for us the last couple of years have been looked at as a very challenging consumer and retail environment.
And we continue to accept that as a given and run our play despite that.
And I do think that your observation is correct that particularly in the recent quarter it has been a little bit less robust.
But that said I think that is the operating environment we're in in the food business and people still have to eat.
So we're going at it pretty aggressively.
In terms of the inventory I think I'm going to let Craig handle that one coming out of the fourth quarter.
Yes.
So I mean just the facts are that as we came out of the third quarter -- in the third quarter so a big soup quarter we had sales about 4 points ahead of consumption.
I think our sales were about 14 consumption about 10.
We had a much smaller delta in the fourth quarter but again oversold by maybe 30 basis points or so what the consumption data said.
So we're just recognizing the fact that as we come into the first quarter this year and retailers start to go into their build mode their inventories will go up in total.
But there may be a little bit of a drag on sales versus consumption as they come back to more normal levels.
The other thing in that -- in the quarter that's sort of mechanical is that because of the calendar Thanksgiving's load-in -- pre-Thanksgiving sales are largely going to be a second quarter event this year instead of a first quarter event.
So that also weighs on the quarter a little bit.
And this is Jennifer.
That's mostly stuffing and condensed soup and broth things like that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I'm sorry just last follow-up to Denise.
You're -- you've obviously made a lot of portfolio changes and that's kind of -- that's challenging for an organization but necessary and I think what you've done is logical so far.
Is -- are you at a point now where you kind of feel that -- you've made 3 acquisitions one big divestiture is this kind of what we have to work with for the moment? Or if more deals come along you're ready willing and able? Well I think it's fair to say that we are continuing to look for smart external development if it makes sense in our categories.
The year we've had this year has been unusually busy.
And I -- look at the fact that over the last 2 years we've identified targets and a lot of them hit this year.
We will have years that are active and years that are a little bit drier.
But we're going to be very very disciplined about external development and make sure that we really believe that anything we bring into Campbell's will add extra value for our shareholders.
Our next question comes from Thilo Wrede from Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Denise in your press release you talked about having optimized the drivers of demand for U.S.
Soup.
Combined with the fact that the innovation this year is maybe a little bit less breakthrough than you had last year does that imply that the organic growth rates that you've had in soup in fiscal '13 that's as good as it gets and will be hard to get back to that kind of level? And kind of related to that is there ever going to be a point where you shift the focus of your dual mandate more towards the growth part of it rather than maintaining the strength of the core? I really think that the dual mandate with a focus on both strengthening the core and expanding into new growth spaces is the right way to think about it.
We really do believe that the best source of value creation is really by having a robust core business especially because our core is so profitable.
And so we do have our resources actually focused against driving growth there and also expanding into the faster-growing spaces.
I was pretty happy with the growth of soup this year and expect that to continue while we drive more growth in those faster-growing spaces.
I think that's a formula that gets us to our long-term growth targets and beyond.
Research Division</strong> If you've got support from weather and you've got support from a lot of new innovation and you've got support from as you put it optimizing the drivers of demand what's going to be the incremental benefit that you get in fiscal '14 to maintain the growth rate? Why wouldn't it slow down again in U.S.
Soup? Well the drivers of demand are really all about improvements in execution.
So when you think about what we're doing in 2014 I mean we've improved the taste and quality of many of our flavors and recipes.
We have a whole new line of ready-to-serve soup coming to market with Homestyle that capitalizes on a consumer need that's really well researched.
We do have continued emphasis on the faster-growing premium segment which we continue to bring new users into the category.
So we're pretty -- Chunky has a very strong program.
Condensed has new advertising.
So we continue to work on the programs the advertising the consumer promotion the innovation and making sure that we get the right shelf configurations.
All of those basics are really important in this category.
So we're pretty positive about U.S.
Soup.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe from Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a quick question for you and it's a bit of a follow-on from an earlier question.
But I know you had like a little benefit in the quarter from 100% Natural in trying to work that product off the shelf.
I think it looked to me like the Homestyle product got on the shelf pretty quickly.
And I guess I also -- so I'm just curious how that benefited U.S.
Soup in the fourth quarter.
I think you've indicated certainly Q1 is a little bit of a lapping issue from the inventory.
And then also could you talk about the new product benefit in the soup business for the year like roughly what that contributed to revenue? Well so you're right Chris we did have -- we had some promotional push to just try to accelerate that switch out of 100% Natural to Homestyle.
In the quarter though the sales were only ahead of consumption by 30 basis points so it wasn't a dramatic inventory push.
Again we're mostly looking back to the third quarter and just recognizing that we built some inventories that haven't come out completely yet some disparity between sales and consumption.
So that -- the 100% Natural product moved through the shelf were moved out to retailers and then moved through the shelf and then off as you recognized in your comment about the trade and we're pretty happy with where we are in terms of merchandising and shelf presence with 100% -- sorry with Homestyle as we come into the year.
Most of the RTS sales gains in the quarter comes from 100% Natural.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So like the Go Soups or the Slow Kettle all of the new varieties do you have like a rough contribution of what that added to sales maybe for the year or even for the quarter? Yes.
For the year it's about 1 point.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> This is Dennis Geiger filling in for John.
Could you discuss what you're seeing in shelf-stable juices as it relates to the pricing environment and what your expectations are for the discounting environment going forward? Yes.
Shelf-stable juices have been as a category under pressure from competition in fresh and really the proliferation of specialty beverages.
There is a bifurcation going on where the value part of the category is performing very well and we're seeing that in our sales of V8 Splash as well as the super-premium beverages in the fresh perimeter and we're experiencing that in our Bolthouse Farms business.
Where we've been under pressure has been really in the V8 100% Vegetable Juice and the V-Fusion line.
And we have plans in 2014 to introduce a new V8 V-Fusion Refreshers product which is -- has a light and refreshing taste which we believe will add some new news to that part of the category and stimulate some sales.
We continue to push our V8 V-Fusion + Energy which is also a hot trend in the category and then the expansion of our kids' juice boxes as well.
So we do have plans to reinvigorate the growth of that business and -- but I was pretty disappointed with it this year.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll from Citi Research.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to follow up on some of the big picture food question.
I think Eric got into that a little bit.
But I want to be specific on something.
The food stamp program is expected to see some declines in what's being issued I think in November.
Number one on food stamps is do you have any kind of number for us about what you think your exposure is to food stamps? And then number two specifically to the November cuts do you think that that has any effect on your business? David we're not expecting the reduction of the supplemental nutrition assistance program to have a material impact to Campbell's.
Research Division</strong> All right well that's clear.
And then just one quick follow-up on the debt Craig.
I think you said interest expense is expected to be flat year-on-year.
I believe you've got...
I said interest -- yes.
Interest expense yes right.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I think you have 2 bonds coming due though 2 $300 million bonds.
Is this -- what's your expectation here? And maybe with those things coming due and being retired why wouldn't interest expense be down? I think one of them expires right at the very end of the period so it won't have much impact.
And the Kelsen coming on is sort of the offset right the Kelsen debt coming in which wasn't in last year's number.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Denise I just wanted to focus a bit on your comments because you talked a little bit about building brand equities.
And clearly you've taken some strong steps toward this end and deserve a lot of credit for that.
But I guess one part I'm curious about is promotions right? I mean and I mentioned this at the Analyst Day.
It's the seventh straight year you had higher promo spending that cut into your gross sales.
And I think the general perception is that promo spending can impair equity growth -- brand equity growth not help it.
So I'm just curious how you think about kind of balancing the decision to raise promo spending with building brand equities and whether those 2 can kind of coexist or whether that's not even the right way to think about it.
Yes.
I think our higher promotion spending has been linked largely to the battles we're fighting in beverages and also in the Arnott's business in Australia as that market has changed and also in the highly competitive Foodservice business where we've experienced some structural changes with the advent of group purchasing organizations.
That said Ken and I really do believe this getting the right marketing mix between the advertising and consumer promotion and the customer and shopper marketing that's going on is more complex today than it has been in the past.
And we're wrestling with things like TV versus digital which may show up as a lower expense but reaching a targeted audience that we need to get to.
So I think that on a by business basis the approach we're taking is to go business by business looking at competition and then figuring out what's the best marketing mix for each business that gives us the best growth at the best profit.
And so that's how we're approaching it.
Research Division</strong> One really quick little follow-up.
You mentioned that the promo spending was sort of focused on a couple of areas.
But as I look down your promo spending for the -- each of your 5 segments it was a headwind to every single segment.
So how do I think about that in correspondence with what you said it was sort of focused on 1 or 2 areas? Well again I think that we go business by business and look at competition what it takes to win against the drivers of demand in each of those businesses.
And for example in the soup business when we looked at our advertising we were way above the spending level of competitive Simple Meals.
And so we've adjusted that and we're channeling our advertising and consumer promotion against new product innovation and new news in the category.
But all of these brands are well supported from an advertising and consumer promotion standpoint.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Craig just one more speculative I guess question on the European business divestiture.
I mean given the eventual closing of that transaction and the proceeds you expect to receive there do you think that increases over the course of the next year your flexibility to or the likelihood of considering dividend increases or reinstatement of share buybacks at some point? Well I guess the literal answer to that question is yes but I don't think it changes anything in the way that we think about our priorities.
We haven't -- while we've done a lot -- while we've had a lot of activity over the course of the last year we still feel like we've got some balance sheet capacity.
We have said on dividends that we would expect to grow roughly with earnings but also keeping an eye on where the total food group is in terms of payout ratio.
We've said that we continue to look for acquisition targets that we think are value adding over time.
So none of that changes.
But yes it brings some cash in and gives us a little bit more firepower.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with respect to the share repurchases should we consider that still an open issue over the course of the year? Or is that more likely to be a fiscal '15 dynamic? So the guidance we gave assumed that we do not restart.
Clearly if we get the European deal closed and that creates some proceeds you could think about that as moving forward but I'm not sure it would move into '14.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Craig just a quick question.
I want to make sure I understood.
I was a little surprised that the 53rd week is fully offset by foreign exchange.
Could you just -- how much are you estimating the 53rd week is worth? It's a little bit less than 2%.
It's a smaller quarter for us than average.
The week is in the fourth quarter right? It's a summer week so it's a little bit less than average but yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the translation is I guess most of it is really the Australian dollar U.S.
dollar exchange? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And is there anything -- you're just assuming current exchange rates today.
There's nothing unusual about that calculation? Yes.
I mean typically unless we see something really peculiar we're not forecasting movement.
We're just taking current spot and assuming that that's where we are for the year.
And that's the case in this guidance.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta from Barclays.
This is Casey Overlander [ph] on for Priya.
Could you elaborate on your plan for the upcoming October maturity and also any additional color on debt reduction plans going forward? Yes Casey [ph].
Thanks for the question.
I think for the October maturity our expectation would be that we would pay that off would not issue another long-term instrument and that would be part of our cash use for the year right? Our last question comes from Akshay Jagdale from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just can you give a little bit more color on Bolthouse and perhaps a little bit on Plum just in terms of what you've seen from the business from a positive standpoint? And perhaps you can comment on anything that perhaps hasn't gone as well as you planned and how you're dealing with that.
This is Denise.
I'll start with Bolthouse.
First of all we were really pleased with the performance and the integration of Bolthouse Farms in their first year as part of Campbell's.
They continue to have a very robust innovation pipeline.
Going forward they're nationally going to launch a baby carrot snack product called Shakedowns which we're pretty enthused about in addition to continuing the momentum on their super-premium fresh beverage business and salad dressings in the refrigerated produce section.
As I said in my opening comments as well we're very excited about the potential for V8 Harvest which is the first V8 entry into fresh juice.
So all in all we think that from a business standpoint that's gone really well.
Culturally we've been able to keep their entrepreneurial spirit and provide them with some of the resources and the scale that Campbell has to offer.
In terms of Plum it's still early days and Plum is in the process of being integrated into our North America platform while retaining a team of very talented entrepreneurs that have joined the Campbell family.
And we've got nice expectations for the expanded distribution of that business to get us more access in the super premium -- I'm sorry the premium organic baby food business.
And that's a nice addition to our kids business which is about $1 billion right now.
Thanks Akshay and thank you everybody.
We appreciate you joining us for our fourth quarter earnings call and webcast.
As I mentioned before our 10-K hopefully we will file historical information for continuing ops and discontinued operations as well as international segment and corporate segment implications of the way we're recasting our numbers.
If you missed any of our call the replay will be available about 2 hours after our call concludes by dialing 1 (703) 925-2533.
The replay passcode is 1620135.
You have until September 12 at midnight at which point we'll move our earnings call to the website investor.campbellsoupcompany.com in our News Events then click on Recent Webcast &amp; Presentation.
If you're a reporter and have questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at (856) 342-3737.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081.
Thank you for staying with us on this slightly prolonged call.
That concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect and have a happy Labor Day weekend.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the First Quarter Earnings Call and Webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
I'm going to comment first on items in the quarter including impacts from our European simple meals business which we sold on October 28 the first day of our second quarter.
Denise will follow me with her perspective on our first quarter results focusing on the main profit drivers year-over-year and expectations for fiscal 2014.
Craig will wrap it up with a more detailed look at the financial and segment results for the first quarter and our adjusted expectations for fiscal 2014.
After that we'll take your questions.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You'll find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com and on our investor relations app which is available through Google or Apple.
Please keep in mind that our call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
Also keep in mind our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflects the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to Slide 3 in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements.
We've been reporting Europe's operating results in discontinued operations.
The sale resulted in changes in continuing operations in Q1 with Q2 impacts being covered later in our remarks today.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2014 the company recorded an unrealized loss of $9 million $6 million after tax or $0.02 per share on foreign exchange forward contracts used to hedge the proceeds from the sale of the European simple meals business.
The loss is included in other expense.
In addition the company recorded tax expense of $7 million $0.02 per share associated with the sale of the business.
Both were recognized in continuing operations.
Separate from Europe we recorded a pretax restructuring charge of $20 million which is $13 million after tax or $0.04 per share in continuing operations associated with initiatives to streamline our salaried workforce in North America and in the Asia Pacific region.
We also recorded a pretax restructuring charge of $1 million and restructuring-related costs of $2 million in cost of products sold related to the fiscal 2013 previously announced initiative.
Last year in Q1 we recorded a restructuring charge of $20 million pretax and $20 million pretax of restructuring-related charges related to supply chain initiatives and $10 million in Bolthouse transaction costs.
The cost of our recent Plum recall was not adjusted out.
Since our presentation includes several non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we've provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly financials also can be found on our website accessible online or any mobile device with the Campbell IR app.
This earnings call is available live on the web and will be saved later as an archived audiocast.
You can find it at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com under News &amp; Events.
Just click on Recent Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
And with that let me turn it over to Denise.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
I want to start by saying that I'm disappointed with our first quarter results which failed to meet our expectations and yours.
I own this and so does our entire management team.
But we are not discouraged because we understand what happened we know what we have to do and we're determined to improve our performance over the next 3 quarters.
Based on our first quarter sales and profit performance versus our expectations we're lowering our full year guidance for fiscal 2014 by 1 point at each line.
From continuing operations we now expect growth of 4% to 5% in net sales 4% to 6% in adjusted EBIT and 2% to 4% in adjusted EPS with a range of $2.53 to $2.58 per share.
This guidance reflects our expectation that Campbell will deliver considerably stronger results in the balance of the year.
This morning I'll review the factors that had a significant impact on our first quarter results and explain how we expect to improve our performance for the remainder of the year.
I will also review strategic steps that we've taken to continue to reshape Campbell and our future growth trajectory.
The key factors in the quarter were: first movements in inventory levels by U.S.
retailers and program timing; second weakness in our core business trends; third our decision to front-load marketing spend to support the growth of new products; and finally our voluntary recall of a range of Plum Organic products.
Although it's not an exact science and these are estimates I want to give you a sense of the relative impact these factors had on our first quarter adjusted EBIT which was down 20% versus prior year.
Movements in retailer inventory levels and program timing drove approximately 6 points of the EBIT decline.
Declines in our core business trends reduced EBIT by approximately 6 points.
Increased advertising and consumer promotion accounted for about 4 points and the Plum recall accounted for nearly 4 points of the decline.
Movements in inventory levels and program timing drove more than half of our decline in organic sales.
The greatest impact was in U.S.
Soup where movements in retailer inventory levels negatively impacted first quarter sales by approximately 4% or 2/3 of the decline versus prior year.
As we said in our last earnings call we entered the first quarter with retailer inventory above year-ago levels particularly in Soup.
What we didn't expect was that some retailers also chose to reduce the average amount of inventory on hand versus the prior year adjusting to a weak consumer environment.
This had a negative unplanned impact on our sales and we ended the quarter with retailer inventory levels below year ago.
In quarter 2 we're seeing more positive inventory movements.
Significant shifts in our program timing and execution also pressured our first quarter results especially in U.S.
Soup.
As we discussed with you in September we expected this year's late Thanksgiving holiday to put pressure on our first quarter results.
In fact many large U.S.
customers placed their orders later than the prior year.
This required us to hold off on shipping holiday items until after Halloween.
These items include Campbell condensed soups gravy Swanson Broth and Pepperidge Farm Stuffing.
The upside is that we expect the holiday timing to have a positive impact on sales in the second quarter as it will have more Thanksgiving shipments to customers than last year's quarter.
We're seeing evidence of that right now and I'm certainly encouraged by the strong acceleration in Soup and Pepperidge Farm shipments and by the merchandising we've seen so far in November.
In the first quarter U.S.
Soup was lapping strong promotional activity in the year-earlier period when we partnered with key customers on major promotions of Campbell condensed soup that drove volume during the back-to-school period.
This year our soup promotion is more heavily weighted to the second and third quarters which we will -- we anticipate will be more effective at the height of the soup season.
Some of our first quarter promotions were scaled back or not repeated.
These actions impacted condensed and ready-to-serve consumption and sales in the first quarter.
Although first quarter soup consumption declined we grew share in the quarter.
Looking ahead we expect soup consumption trends to pick up in the balance of the year as consumers respond to effective marketing and promotions taste improvements and new products as we enter the winter months.
In fact our total U.S.
Soup gross sales are up 8% month-to-date in November from the prior year.
To help drive renewed growth in both condensed and ready-to-serve soup consumption and build on our momentum in broth we have planned competitive advertising levels in the coming quarters to get Soup sales back on track.
We expect our new Campbell Homestyle Soup to be a growth driver this year and we're accelerating innovation by pushing up the launch of 8 new soups that were originally planned for the end of the fiscal year.
These new soups will now be launched in the second and third quarters and they include new varieties of Campbell's Chunky and Healthy Request soups and our first Hispanic-inspired cooking soups.
A second factor impacting our profit performance was our decision to front-load marketing investments in the first quarter to support new products.
Specifically our advertising and consumer promotion expense in the first quarter increased 14% from the year-earlier period.
We supported new product launches in Soup and Simple Meals and made investments in Bolthouse Farms to drive better brand awareness and expand its leadership position in packaged fresh foods.
We made strategic choices to launch new products while maintaining competitive levels of advertising in the core.
This included supporting Campbell's Homestyle Soup Slow Cooker Sauces and Skillet Sauces with strong national advertising campaigns that encompass digital social and TV.
Although it is still early days I'm encouraged by the velocity of Campbell's Homestyle Soup and dinner sauces in response to our advertising.
But the benefits of advertising tend to build over time and we expect new product sales will continue to accelerate as the year progresses.
As we reported today we continue to face challenges in North America Foodservice and U.S.
Beverages.
This is the last quarter where Foodservice is cycling the loss of a major customer and we expect better comps going forward.
Foodservice performed as expected in the quarter.
However U.S.
Beverages performed below our expectations.
Our V8 brand continues to be under pressure from category weakness in shelf-stable juices and competition from the proliferation of specialty beverages and packaged fresh juices.
As we've said before we are implementing a turnaround plan to stem the decline and strengthen U.S.
Beverages in the long run but we don't expect it to be a growth driver this year.
We're focused on reducing cost and driving innovation such as V8 V-Fusion Refreshers and V8 V-Fusion + Energy.
Our first quarter results also reflected the impact of a recall on a range of Plum Organic pouch products.
We initiated this recall after discovering a manufacturing defect that may cause spoilage in some pouches.
As Craig will discuss in greater detail the cost of this recall had a significant negative impact on our first quarter EBIT.
Our priority is to continue to build consumer and customer trust in this wonderful brand.
Looking briefly at Global Baking and Snacking.
I'm encouraged by the solid performance of Pepperidge Farm in the quarter and by our progress in reshaping and expanding our International business including our acquisition of Kelsen Group and our growth in emerging markets.
Pepperidge Farm grew sales of Goldfish crackers and fresh bakery and rolled out exciting new products.
Going forward we are supporting the national rollout of Goldfish Puffs with a television and digital campaign.
And in Q2 we're launching Goldfish Mac &amp; Cheese nationally.
In addition Pepperidge Farm expects a boost from Thanksgiving shipments in the second quarter.
Overall we expect this business to deliver continued solid growth this year.
Turning to our international biscuits portfolio.
The integration of Kelsen which has given us a baked snacks platform in China Hong Kong and other international markets is on track.
We're readying Kelsen brands for the important holiday season.
In emerging markets we expect to deliver dynamic growth in Arnott's biscuits in Indonesia this year.
We are doing some heavy lifting to address our challenges in Australia where we're focused on reducing cost and reinvigorating growth in Arnott's.
We've strengthened the leadership and are reorganizing the team.
Our new President of Asia Pacific Ümit Subasi is now on board.
Ümit has extensive experience in turning around businesses and establishing new operations in emerging economies.
Now I'll discuss several important steps that we have taken as we continue to reshape Campbell and redefine our future growth trajectory.
In the first quarter we concluded our negotiations to sell our European simple meals business for EUR 400 million.
This transaction which closed in the second quarter enables us to focus our investments and resources on faster-growing businesses and markets and on brands that we believe we can grow around the world.
We now have 10 powerful brands with sales of more than $100 million each led by a our flagship Campbell brand at $2.1 billion.
With the acquisition of Bolthouse Farms Plum Organics and Kelsen we added a trio of growth engines with combined sales of more than $1 billion to diversify our portfolio.
We will continue to look for smart external development opportunities that create value.
The second step relates to our ongoing focus on reducing SG&amp;A expense and total delivered cost as a strategic imperative.
Campbell is driving productivity and rightsizing our global workforce to fund sustainable growth in a challenging consumer and economic environment.
Over the past 2 years we exited 4 plants and streamlined our Campbell North America operations in order to optimize our supply chain and increase efficiency.
These actions have resulted in annualized cost savings of approximately $40 million.
In our first quarter of this fiscal year we continued our progress by implementing further initiatives that are expected to deliver annualized cost savings of approximately $40 million.
Importantly we will reinvest some of these incremental cost savings in brand building and innovation.
Based on the company's solid performance last year and our outlook for this year Campbell Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend during the first quarter by 7.6%.
With this increase Campbell's shareholders will receive a payout of almost $1.25 per share on an annualized basis.
This dividend increase reflects the company's strong cash flow continued confidence in our strategic plan and our firm commitment to enhance shareholder value.
So in closing we are off to a slow start to the year and face a tougher road than we anticipated.
But we know what we have to do to strengthen our performance over the balance of the year and the second quarter is off to a solid start.
In summary I'm disappointed but not discouraged.
I firmly believe that we're taking the right steps to drive sustainable profitable net sales growth and I'm determined to do so.
Now I'll turn the call over to Craig Owens for a full review of our segment results and then we'll get to your questions.
Thanks Denise and good morning everyone.
Well as Denise said we are disappointed in the results that we're reporting.
Today we want to be sure that we're providing you with a clear understanding of the elements of the first quarter results as well as indicators of the opportunity that we see in the balance of the year.
I'll spend a few minutes discussing the first quarter and segment highlights followed by comments on our full year sales and earnings guidance.
As Jennifer mentioned my discussion will exclude the impact of acquisition transaction costs in the prior year restructuring programs in both the current and the prior years and a loss on foreign exchange forward contracts and a tax expense related to the sale of our European business but recorded in continuing operations in the first quarter.
On October 28 after the close of the first quarter the company completed the divestiture of the European simple meals business.
That business is reported in discontinued operations in the first quarter.
For the quarter we reported net sales from continuing operations of $2.2 billion a 2% decrease from the prior year.
These results include a 4-point contribution from acquisitions which consist of Plum Organics; Kelsen which was acquired on August 8; and 1 additional week of the results of Bolthouse Farms which was acquired 1 week into the quarter last year.
Excluding acquisitions and the negative impact of currency organic net sales decreased by 4% with declines across all segments except for Global Baking and Snacking which was comparable to prior year.
The organic sales performance was negatively impacted by movements in retailer inventory levels across several of our businesses.
Adjusted EBIT decreased 20% to $337 million reflecting lower sales increased advertising investment expenses related to the Plum product recall and a lower gross margin percentage.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.66 a 21% decrease versus the prior year driven by the EBIT decline.
The next slide shows the composition of the 2% sales decline.
The organic sales decrease of 4 points reflects 4 points of unfavorable volume/mix 1 point of increased promotional spending which is offset by 1 point of pricing.
Unfavorable currency had a 1-point impact due to the Australian and Canadian dollars weakening against the U.S.
dollar.
You'll note that the detail does not add to the total due to rounding.
The unfavorable volume/mix is driven by 2 of our U.S.
segments: U.S.
Simple Meals and U.S.
Beverages.
The pricing gains were primarily related to our list price increase on condensed soup in the U.S.
and price increases across our Baking and Snacking segment.
These increases were partially offset by pricing declines in Mexico based on our new distribution business model.
The promotional spending variance was primarily related to higher rates of spending in U.S.
Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 220 basis points to 36%.
The decline was primarily attributable to the impact of Kelsen and Plum.
The combination of purchase accounting inventory step-up for Kelsen and the Plum recall had a negative impact of 1 full point.
The ongoing impact on gross margin from the addition of the lower-margin Kelsen and Plum businesses is about 40 basis points.
The balance of the margin reduction was largely due to negative mix.
The inflation rate and cost of goods sold was about 3% for the quarter entirely offset by productivity savings.
Marketing and selling expense increased $25 million to $261 million.
The increase was primarily driven by higher advertising to support new product launches including Campbell's Homestyle Soups and Campbell's dinner sauce products as well as new advertising to support the Bolthouse brands.
The addition of Kelsen and Plum Organics also contributed to the increase.
Administrative expense decreased $7 million to $148 million primarily due to lower compensation and benefit costs including pension expense.
Acquisitions added approximately $5 million.
For the quarter net interest expense decreased $3 million to $30 million.
The decrease was due to lower average interest rates on our total debt portfolio partly offset by higher levels of debt to fund the Kelsen and Plum acquisitions.
The adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 32.2% a 20 basis point increase versus the prior year.
We still expect a fiscal '14 tax rate of between 31% and 32%.
Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations decreased 21% to $209 million and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations decreased to $0.66 for the quarter.
First quarter segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on Slide 28.
Our U.S.
Simple Meals segment delivered $860 million in sales including a $15 million contribution from the acquisition of Plum Organics.
U.S.
Simple Meals organic sales declined by 6%.
Within the segment U.S.
Soup sales also decreased by 6%.
2/3 of this decrease was due to movements in retailer inventory levels.
Retailers entered the quarter with somewhat higher inventories than prior year.
They worked these down and reduced end-of-period inventories versus prior year partially due to the later timing of Thanksgiving.
Excluding the impact of the Plum acquisition U.S.
sauce sales decreased by 4%.
Declines in gravy paste and canned pasta were partially offset by the introduction of Campbell's Slow Cooker Sauces and gains in Prego which benefited from our new white sauces.
Our Global Baking and Snacking segment delivered $609 million in sales including a $52 million contribution from Kelsen.
Organic sales were comparable to the prior year with growth in Pepperidge Farm in Indonesia offset by declines in Arnott's in Australia.
The sales gains in Pepperidge Farm reflected growth across fresh bakery and crackers.
In the bakery business Sandwich Bread &amp; Rolls posted double-digit volume gains benefited from -- benefiting from the market absence of the former Hostess brands which are just now beginning to return to the shelf.
These gains were partially offset by declines in stuffing primarily due to the holiday timing shift.
The Snacks business had another quarter of growth with good increases in Goldfish snack crackers partially offset by declines in adult cracker varieties.
Sales of cookies were comparable to the prior year.
Sales in Arnott's decreased primarily due to sales decreases in Australia primarily in chocolate varieties partially offset by strong growth in Indonesia.
Our Bolthouse Farms and Foodservice segment posted $330 million in sales including $14 million from the additional week of Bolthouse Farms sales in the current quarter.
Organic sales declined 2% reflecting the loss of a major restaurant customer in Foodservice 1 year ago while Bolthouse sales were comparable to a year ago as sales growth in premium refrigerated beverages and salad dressings were offset by declines in bulk sales of juice concentrate.
International Simple Meals and Beverages delivered $193 million in sales for the quarter.
Organic sales decreased by 7% due to declines in Canada Latin America and the Asia Pacific region.
Sales in Canada were negatively impacted by increased promotional spending related to the launch of new soup items.
The sales decline in Latin America is attributed to lower selling prices associated with the implementation of the new business model in Mexico.
And sales in Asia Pacific declined due to our Australian soup business.
U.S.
Beverage sales declined 8% to $173 million.
The decrease in sales was most pronounced in V8 V-Fusion beverages.
Sales of V8 Vegetable Juice and V8 Splash also fell.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals decreased 23% to $211 million for the quarter.
Within the segment the decline in operating earnings was primarily driven by lower volumes higher advertising expense and expenses related to the Plum product recall partially offset by productivity improvements and net price realization in Soup.
Operating earnings for Global Baking and Snacking decreased 8% to $78 million.
Earnings declines at Arnott's and the unfavorable impact of currency were partially offset by earnings gains at Pepperidge Farm.
For the segment the earnings decline was primarily driven by cost inflation partially offset by higher net selling prices.
Operating earnings within Bolthouse and Foodservice decreased by 15% to $29 million.
The decline in operating earnings was primarily driven by cost inflation and increased advertising for Bolthouse Farms.
Bolthouse benefited from the comparison to 1 less week last year.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages decreased by 20% primarily due to lower volume.
Within international Simple Meals and Beverages earnings decreased by 39% to $20 million.
The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to lower volume lower selling price and increased promotional spending.
On Slide 31 you see U.S.
Soup sales for the quarter declining 6%.
Recall that approximately 4 points can be attributed to retailer inventory movement and timing.
Sales of condensed soup declined 7% with declines in both eating and cooking varieties.
Volume loss was partially offset by higher net pricing.
Ready-to-serve soup sales fell 11% driven by declines in both canned and microwavable soup varieties.
Broth sales increased 3% primarily driven by double-digit gains in aseptic broth.
Campbell's measured consumer takeaway in wet soup for the quarter was down 2%.
On Slide 32 we look at U.S.
wet soup category performance in the past 52 weeks ended October 27 2013 and our share performance within the category.
The category as a whole rose 2.8%.
Our sales in measured channels rose 3.4% with gains driven by ready-to-serve broth and condensed soup.
Campbell had nearly a 60% market share an increase of 30 basis points.
All other branded players collectively had a share of 28%; and private label a share of 13%.
These figures were sourced from SymphonyIRI's multi-outlet report and are based on dollar sales.
Cash flow from operations was $38 million compared with $81 million in the prior year.
The decline is due to lower earnings partially offset by a lower pension contribution.
The pension contribution in fiscal '14 was $40 million versus $76 million last year.
Capital expenditures of $52 million rose from $41 million a year ago.
We're still expecting capital expenditures for the year to be about $350 million.
As we've previously announced we suspended the strategic share repurchase program at the end of fiscal 2012 in order to reduce the debt incurred to finance the Bolthouse acquisition.
However we will continue to repurchase sufficient shares to offset dilution from equity compensation programs.
Net debt rose to $4.5 billion an increase of $441 million primarily due to acquisitions.
In the quarter we also retired a $300 million note.
Results of the European simple meal business are reported as discontinued operations.
The loss from discontinued operations for the first quarter was $9 million or $0.03 per share compared with earnings of $13 million or $0.04 per share last year.
The change in earnings was primarily due to costs associated with the divestiture including additional tax expense related to the difference between tax and book basis of the business.
In the second quarter the company anticipates recognizing a net gain of approximately $75 million after tax or $0.24 per share from the sale of the European simple meal business.
Campbell's has adjusted its previous fiscal 2014 guidance.
Campbell now expects continuing operations to grow sales by 4% to 5% adjusted EBIT by 4% to 6% and adjusted EPS by 2% to 4%.
The downward adjustment of guidance by 1 point at each line is a recognition of our shortfall versus expectation in the first quarter.
Our forecast is for significant improvement in performance in the last 3 quarters and the reversal of some of the retailer inventory positions.
As a reminder fiscal '14 comprises 53 weeks 1 additional week compared to last year the benefit of which is now expected to be partially offset by the impact of currency translation.
The contribution to sales from acquisitions will be lower than the $300 million in our original forecast due to the Plum recall.
It's difficult at this point to estimate the full year impact of the recall on Plum but we believe that our new guidance range encompasses this risk.
In connection with the new business model in Mexico reported sales and cost of products sold will be reduced by approximately $40 million.
EPS growth reflects the impact of a significant increase in the tax rate.
With that I'll turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Craig.
At this time we will conduct the Q&amp;A session.
[Operator Instructions] Kate? [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question for you with regard to organic revenue growth.
And I guess as I think about those various factors that worked against revenue during the quarter the recall the inventory reductions it would seem like a lot of this is going to be overcome if you will later in the year by improving underlying organic revenue growth.
I just want to understand I guess first of all how much organic revenue growth you foresee within that 4% to 5%.
And then I guess just from a modeling standpoint do we expect therefore an increase in inventory in 2Q to counteract some of the declines here in the first quarter? So Chris to answer the last question first.
I think that the expectation on inventory if you look at the first quarter not only did we work down some of the inventory overhang if you will from prior year but retailers actually finished the quarter lower than prior year inventories.
We would expect to get that back.
And in fact we have pretty good evidence that it's coming back for us in November.
So yes a partial reversal of some of the inventory issues there.
The expectation with respect to organic sales growth going forward is that we would finish the year I think with a modest organic sales growth.
So positive in the last 3 quarters.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just to follow up on that.
Did you indicate on the call I may have missed it but that the month-to-date in November Soup sales are up 8%? Did I get that correct? Yes that's the gross sales month-to-date up 8%.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So again some of the -- given what we see in SymphonyIRI and Nielsen data assuming it's still a little challenged in the Soup category that gap would be defined by the incremental inventory it seems like.
Yes.
And I -- we believe that that's cycling the Hurricane Sandy consumption.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask about new products as a percent of sales? I guess within the Soup business you're managing a transition out of the more traditional products into these new packaging formats.
How are those going so far this soup season? Because I remember this time last year they were a little light versus expectations.
I think that the best way to think about this Alexia is the Go Soup the Campbell's Slow Kettle and the Bisques and the boxed soups are building a premium segment of the soup category and we're very encouraged by the growth in that particular segment.
And we'll continue to build new varieties on that -- in those lines this year.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> And how much do they represent of the U.S.
Soups business now that premium category? It's still pretty small Alexia.
It's not a very significant portion of our total soup sales.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So some modeling questions.
In the context of the first quarter shortfall it is -- it's difficult to see the clear path to your full year guidance.
Can you help us with a little more granular detail of some of the puts and takes that give you the confidence to get there? And also any insight you can share on the second quarter because it seems like delivering the full year is really predicated on a pretty heroic second quarter delivery.
So I think first of all in the second quarter we would -- as we said we'd expect to recapture some of the first quarter impact of sales below consumption or lower retailer inventories.
Across the year we will see the progressive benefit of new products and innovation that will help the top line.
As we mentioned in our Foodservice business we're lapping the loss of one of our major customers so the first quarter is the last time that you see that impact.
Clearly the Plum impact in the first quarter is a one-off in terms of the recall amount though there may be some ongoing impact on the Plum business as we go forward.
With respect to profit measures as opposed to sale measures we also -- well actually impacting both things we have the restructuring benefit some of which will be reinvested to help us drive top line growth as we move through the year.
So I mean there are a fair number of factors.
As you look at the first quarter I think you see a combination of some one-off impacts and some weakness in the core business no question about that but then as we look forward we think we've got some offsets and some benefits to the balance of the year.
And it does make for a significant swing first quarter to back 3.
Yes.
And Jason we have significantly stronger programming in the second and third quarters this year versus prior year and so -- where we had weaker programming in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> If your programming was so much weaker in the third quarter why was the promotional drag on top line a negative 2%? Yes.
Part of that is due to the fact that in Soup as we list -- raised list prices we held the promoted price so you have -- it shows up as a higher rate on promotion.
Our next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Last year you launched -- at this time of the year you launched 2 new soup brands the Go Soups and the Gourmet Bisques and yet you were able to reduce your marketing expenses.
However Chunky did better even with lower marketing expenses and so on.
So last year lower marketing expenses better performance.
This year you're stepping up your marketing spending to support Homestyle which is -- as you relabeled 100% Natural and yet the performance is down.
Why this discrepancy in performance given the change in marketing spending? Okay.
let me clarify that.
First of all our marketing efforts on our new products last year when we launched them particularly our soups and our Skillet Sauces we believe was insufficient to generate the trial that we needed to get to.
We actually had better repeat on those products but the trial was a slower build.
So learning from that this year we decided to invest in marketing upfront and give our new soup and sauce products a proper launch into the marketplace.
And we believe that that was the right decision.
For clarity Campbell’s Homestyle is a different kind of soup than 100% Natural.
So even though we discontinued 100% Natural and Campbell Homestyle will go into the marketplace in its place it is a totally different consumer proposition based on a need state of fresh-made goodness.
So the -- we felt that it was really important to properly communicate that right out of the gate to consumers and customers.
Thilo I think the other thing you have to recognize is that the advertising spend on the base business last year was down versus 2012 right? So if you're looking at total advertising spend the base business spend this year would have been about flat with the support against new products on top of it whereas last year you had a decrease in base spending.
The one other point I'd mention there is the significant amount of spend to launch our new dinner sauces into both Slow Cooker and to support Skillet Sauces.
So we're still in the awareness and trial-building part of that evolution so you don't necessarily see it in top line growth in the current quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Craig very quickly what was D&amp;A in the quarter if you can? And then Denise I wanted to get a better sense for why your team's initial forecasts were perhaps a bit off for the Thanksgiving shift.
As far as you can tell was it more the case of retailers ordering less than they had previously indicated or was it more to do with maybe a hiccup I guess in the forecasting process on Campbell's part? I'm just trying to get a sense of why the magnitude of the Thanksgiving shift impact I guess caught you guys slightly offguard.
I'll take the second part first.
Obviously we knew when we forecasted that Thanksgiving was going to come later in the year and that Halloween would actually fall in the second quarter.
However what we didn't expect was that retailers would hold off ordering Thanksgiving holiday merchandise until after the Halloween inventory was on the floor and depleted when in fact that was the behavior that we experienced this year.
In a traditional first quarter we actually do have Thanksgiving shipments going to market particularly in the last 2 weeks in October.
That did not happen this year.
And yet the day after Halloween we saw our shipments tick up in a big way.
So we do have confidence in the fact that this was a shift in inventory for the holiday.
On your other question depreciation and amortization in the quarter was about $75 million.
Our next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions so just little ones and then a more important one.
A&amp;C for the year's -- I don't think you actually said what your...
I'm sorry David.
You're trying to squeeze in 3? I think you're going to have to pick one.
Research Division</strong> They're just little details but I'll do whatever you want.
The A&amp;C for the year and then what was your expectation for the quarter? And then my most important question is the savings this $80 million the 2 $40 million chunks.
Craig can you talk about how the pacing goes on this in terms of what's incremental in Qs 2 3 and 4? Should we be thinking that's it like $20 million incremental savings in Qs 2 3 4 just kind of simple math on the $80 million? So with respect to expectation on A&amp;C in the first quarter as we said when reported our fourth quarter results we did expect A&amp;C to be up as it was.
So there wasn't any miss versus our own expectation there.
With respect to the savings on the restructuring program the savings not the benefit to the bottom line because as we said we think we will reinvest a fair bit of this for growth but the savings for the balance of the year against the headquarters restructuring program is about $25 million.
And the supply chain portion of that is about $40 million for the year and that's already well incorporated in our discussion around enablers and inflation which are roughly an offset this year.
Research Division</strong> Are they back-end loaded though? The second one is -- sorry the first one is.
The restructuring for -- outside of the supply chain the restructuring of world headquarters in Australia is back-end loaded.
Research Division</strong> And then this is one of the reasons why the shape of the year can be so different than the first quarter numbers? I mean the first quarter misses by $0.20 and then the back end has got -- the back 3 quarters has got just a very different EPS shape.
I'm thinking that this productivity program is a big reason why? That is part of the reason why yes.
Part of the reason and then the expectation that we'll deliver more meaningful growth in the next 3 quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious to know why you provided the gross sales for November up 8%.
Is there any way you can give us a sense of what the net sales were? And then also is that -- do you think that's the extent of the rebuilding of inventory? Or is there more rebuilding of inventory that you expect in December and January? On the gross sales question we haven't closed the books for November yet so we don't do the trade calculations until we get through the month.
So the only thing we really had to provide for you today is the gross sales which is why we did that.
Research Division</strong> Is there anything unusual you had to do to get the gross sales up 8%? Or is it just your normal trade spending in November? No nothing to do with trade spending.
It's the volume times the list sales compared to the prior year.
Yes there's nothing peculiar going on at trade spending.
It's just as Anthony said to give you an accurate number mid-month we have to do it at the gross sales level.
Yes and I think largely driven by the Thanksgiving shipments starting after Halloween which fell into the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> And as far as retailers building back inventory in December and January that's not going to be an issue? You think you'll ship to consumption in December and January? Well it's really difficult for us to forecast that Rob as we proved in the first quarter right? But the -- I think the point is that we feel pretty confident because of some of the things that we've cited: the timing of Thanksgiving some real retailer squeeze on inventories toward the end of the first quarter that at least the below-normal inventories at the end of the first quarter would come back.
And the reason we've given you the gross sales number for November is just some indication that's giving us some comfort that it has come back.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Denise in Foodservice you've done some work there bringing capacity online and responding to some of the change in customer demands.
How should we be thinking about new business wins unfolding there? Is there anything on the horizon worth noting? And I guess related how would you characterize the broader foodservice environment right now? Yes.
Well I think the broader foodservice environment is challenged as is the retail environment.
However we did bring some capacity online in June that is enabling us to have discussions with many more national customers to meet their needs in fresh soup.
So we are having those discussions and are encouraged by the early days and expect to be on our plan on Foodservice this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So just -- I guess one clarification.
Just I'm trying to -- in understanding the $0.20 variance to consensus if I look at I guess the Slide #9 in the presentation would it be a rough approximation that roughly half of it was the consensus was just too high relative to what your internal plan was and half of it is some of the inventory -- some of the things that were unanticipated by you going into the quarter? Yes.
Bryan I don't want to get into trying to analyze our results against the average of the consensus but if you think about it sort of by the pieces that Denise cited in terms of things that I guess nobody really expected clearly the Plum recall and the -- part of that inventory decrease we anticipated part of it we didn't anticipate part of it were clearly unexpected.
And the weakness in the base business was largely unexpected by us.
That things that we did anticipate were part of the inventory timing and the front-loaded spend on marketing.
So I'd say in terms of what was expected and what wasn't expected there's probably over half of it that was not in our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just -- I just want to make sure I understand I think in your response to Dave Driscoll's question the plan for your -- for marketing spend for the full year hasn't changed at all.
So you're still anticipating the same level of spend.
And then in addition there is some incremental cost savings related to the restructuring more restructuring savings.
Did I hear that right? Relative to what your original plan was.
Yes so we had said that marketing would be up this year primarily because of support to the new product introduction and in fact that it would be somewhat front-loaded and that's still the plan right? Front-loaded you saw it in the first quarter up for the full year but certainly not at the same rate that it was up in Q1.
And so the answer is that all of those expectations are still in order.
And with respect to the cost savings against restructuring I think the point with David was is that backloaded? And the answer is yes we'll see the benefit of that across the last 3 quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But relative to what was in the guidance that you gave at the beginning of the year there isn't more savings in your plan now than there was at the beginning of the year? I think the way I would think about that is that the restructuring has given us some opportunity to help make up some of the loss that we had in the first quarter particularly through reinvestment in greater growth in the balance of the year.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick one on the acceleration of some of your products you talked about.
I certainly understand why you're lumping those up a little bit to get sort of the top line moving and what have you.
I guess I'm just curious why if those new items were ready to go why I guess the plan was originally not to put them out until the end of the fiscal year.
Is it just you had enough going on already you thought? Was it a capabilities concern that you didn't want to put too much out there at the same time? Or -- trying to get a sense because it seems like you're still in the mode of even excluding this quarter you're still trying to obviously get the overall top line and Soup momentum kind of going right from -- over a multi-year time frame.
So I guess why wouldn't have these new items been put out when they were ready to go? The new items that I talked about accelerating the 8 new items were programmed to go in the next fiscal year which meant they would be shipping the July August time period in preparation for the next soup season.
We have accelerated those new items and some of them will be going out in quarter 2 and quarter 3.
So that is as fast as we can go on those items with the right programming to support them.
The other point on that and Craig mentioned that the new restructuring benefit enables us to put a little marketing support behind those new items where we wouldn't have had that P&amp;L flexibility before.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay so I guess that's part of that.
That makes sense.
And then just to revisit I know last year's -- you talked about advertising spending behind the core was lower.
Obviously it's already at a high level against your core but it was lower and some of that has moved over to support some of the new items on the premium side and whatnot.
Do you feel like that decision in any way caused you to sort of have to re-up a little bit more than you had expected this year? Maybe it cut a little too deep behind the core which is coming back to kind of hurt things today or do you really think that's probably not an issue in all this? Andrew we feel that the levels of advertising that we have on the core business are still at very competitive levels and that it's advertising working in conjunction with the other drivers of demand is the right formula for success on the core Soup business as evidenced by the performance last year.
On the new products we really felt that we needed to put some more momentum behind them coming right out of the gate to get the trial curve sooner because our repeat is actually very strong on those items.
Our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask on the Beverage business which I think you said in your prepared remarks that that underperformed your expectations and then you didn't see really within this fiscal year that it would really stabilize.
And I guess I'm just curious what have you seen in shelf stable versus the premium fresh beverages? Because it seems -- I know that that was one of the major reasons you acquired Bolthouse.
But it seems that even that category is coming under increased pressure because there are new entrants and it's -- whenever I look at it in the grocery store it looks like it's kind of over-SKUed.
Could you talk about sort of shelf stable versus premium fresh and the behavior of both categories please? Yes.
And obviously we do play on both sides of that business.
And the shelf stable juice category continues to struggle from category weakness and competition from the proliferation of specialty beverages and as you indicated packaged fresh juices.
And we see that affecting our V8 franchise.
What we do see are some bright spots.
We've had 7 years of growth of V8 Splash and we did not have the merchandising levels in the first quarter that we had last year but we have reinstated those in the year-to-go period.
So we'll handle the value end of the shelf stable juice business which we believe has been pretty robust for us.
And on the higher end with Bolthouse Farms we actually did see high single-digit consumption in the Beverage business or sales in the Beverage business and we're still ahead in share.
So we will continue with the premium fresh Bolthouse business to increase our innovation going forward and they have a very robust pipeline coming to market.
So we're very encouraged by the performance of Bolthouse Farms as it looks for the year.
So I think that there is definitely a shift.
Where we're feeling most of the pressure is in our 100% Red juice and our V8 V-Fusion.
The trends have improved slightly on the 100% Red juice but I'm admitting that that particular segment of the business is still under pressure.
Research Division</strong> Can you just give me a break on how much is shelf stable versus premium fresh in terms of percentage of sales or -- just trying to get an idea about how much bigger that business is the shelf stable.
Yes all the sales in our U.S.
Beverage reporting segment are the shelf stable business.
And the Bolthouse sales are in the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment and the shelf stable is about twice as large as the refrigerated.
Yes one of the things I failed to mention was we are also driving innovation in shelf stable juices.
We have a launch of V8 Refreshers coming out and shipping as we speak.
And then V8 V-Fusion + Energy is also performing way above expectations so we're encouraged by that innovation.
Our next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the inventory issue.
Can you give us some perspective on where we are on inventory levels at retail from a historical perspective? And just as a follow-up to that how -- I mean in terms of stock-up trips I mean what's the outlook for your business longer term? And how are you managing your business strategically longer term given that it seems like stock-up trips are down and that's hurting your business? That would be helpful.
Yes second part of the question first.
On the stock-up trips we've seen for several seasons now the change in consumer behavior on stock-up trips.
Whereas once upon a time it was to our advantage to promote with large multiples today we've adjusted that to -- we still have aggressive programs but they're in multiples of 2 or 3 to reflect that kind of behavior.
So consumers are definitely shopping closer to consumption.
And in terms of the inventory as we said the inventory levels today coming into the quarter were lower than they were a year ago.
Yes I would just add to that.
If you look at the end of the quarter we're probably -- I think we are at multi-year lows in terms of absolute levels of inventory.
Having entered the quarter at a high level so that there's quite a swing from beginning to end.
Our last question comes from the line of Greg Hessler with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a balance sheet-related question.
I think on the last earnings call you had indicated that you expected the total debt balance to be down in 2014 and there was a little bit of an uptick on a sequential basis.
Can you just provide some color on why the debt balance increased? Because of the acquisition of Kelsen and Plum.
Kelsen yes is the one that's in the quarter right? Yes and keep in mind that the sale of the European simple meals business occurred in the first day of the second quarter.
So obviously our debt level is down since then.
So we don't have proceeds -- we'll show proceeds from the European sale in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then so on a -- I guess if we're looking at it we should compare -- your total debt balance at year end for 2014 should theoretically be lower than that $4.4 billion or $4.5 billion number at the end of the 2013.
Is that the way to look at it? Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more if I could squeeze it in.
I mean you guys have a decent-sized short-term debt balance and you have a couple of maturities coming up.
Do you guys expect that you'll be in the debt capital markets this year? We don't -- we haven't made any announcement about that.
As you saw we -- the last bond that matured we paid off and we'll evaluate that as we come up.
I think we've got 2.
They actually fall into 2 different fiscal years but they're right at the beginning of August of 2014 so I -- probably at that point at least one of those would be partially refunded by a new issue.
Thank you everybody.
We appreciate you joining us for our first quarter earnings call and webcast.
If you missed any portion of our call the replay will be available about 2 hours after this call concludes.
Call 1 (703) 639-1327.
Our replay passcode is 1625872.
You have until December 3 2013 at midnight at which point we move our earnings call to the website investor.campbellsoupcompany.com under News &amp; Events.
Just click on Recent Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at (856) 342-3737.
Investors and analysts please call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856) 342-6081 with any questions.
That concludes today's program.
Have a great week and a wonderful Thanksgiving.
And you may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup second quarter 2014 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce to your host for today's conference Jennifer Driscoll Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everybody.
Welcome to the Campbell Soup Company's second quarter earnings call and webcast.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO Craig Owens Senior Vice President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer Anthony DiSilvestro Senior Vice President of Finance and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
I am going to comment first on some very exciting items impacting comparability in the quarter.
Denise will follow me with a high level her perspective on our second quarter and first-half.
Craig will wrap it up with a more detailed look at the financial and segment results.
After that we will take your questions.
As usual we have created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com and on our IR app which is available through Google or Apple.
Please keep in mind that our call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements.
They reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
Our forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to slide three in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2014 Campbell and a joint venture partner agreed to restructure manufacturing and streamline operations in China.
We recorded pretax restructuring charges of $13 million related to this initiative.
In the first quarter we recorded pretax restructuring charges and related costs of $23 million associate with initiatives to streamline our salaried workforce in North America and in Asia-Pacific and the previously announced initiative.
We recorded a loss of $9 million on foreign exchange forward contracts used to hedge the proceeds from the sale of our European Simple Meals business.
In addition we recorded tax expense of $7 million associated with that sale.
Last year in the second quarter we recorded a pretax restructuring charge and related costs of $48 million related to our U.S.
supply chain in Mexico.
In the first quarter we recorded $10 million in transaction cost to Bolthouse and $43 million in restructuring charges and related costs related to U.S.
supply chain initiatives.
Since our presentation today includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we have provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly financials also can be found on our website accessible by computer or any mobile device with the Campbell IR app.
As Denise will touch on later too Campbell recently announced a CFO transition.
Craig Owens CFO since October 2008 will be retiring on May 1 2014.
He has been not only a strong and respected CFO but also an outstanding mentor to me and many others here at Campbell.
On behalf of all of us who have had the privilege to work with the master Craig I would like to thank you for that.
So we are delighted to add that Anthony DiSilvestro is being promoted to CFO.
He will be providing the financials perspective at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York conference CAGNY in Florida on February 19 with Craig Denise and I attending as well.
We invite interested shareholders investors members of the media and consumers to listen to and view our investor presentation at CAGNY which will be videocast live it is actually videocast at 10:30 AM Eastern from Boca Raton.
A replay of the video and copies of materials will be available afterwards on Campbell's website archives.
With that let me turn it over to Denise Morrison.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning to everyone.
Thanks for joining Campbell's second quarter earnings call.
I would like to cover three topics this morning.
I will share my perspective on our second quarter and first-half results update you on the unusual factors that negatively impacted our first quarter and how those played out in the second quarter and discuss our plans to drive stronger growth in the second-half to deliver our full-year guidance.
Craig will then provide details on our segment results.
Despite facing headwinds from a weaker retail and consumer environment we continue to reshape our company for longer-term higher growth while at the same time balancing short-term deliverables.
In the second quarter we delivered growth of 6% in reported net sales 15% in adjusted EBIT and 19% in adjusted EPS from continuing operations which increased to $0.76.
Clearly we have made progress from our disappointing start in the first quarter.
Our improved results were driven by growth in our core business and from acquisitions.
We delivered 3% organic sales growth in our core business led by higher sales in U.S.
Simple Meals Pepperidge Farm and Bolthouse Farms.
Acquisitions also contributed to our growth led by Kelsen which we acquired in the first quarter to give us a growth platform in China and other developing markets.
Kelsen was the main catalyst of our 14% growth in global baking and snacking and contributed to the higher operating earnings.
We had a strong holiday season in U.S.
Soup and Pepperidge Farm but January was weaker than expected.
During the quarter we also closed the sale of our European Simple Meals business.
Let me take you through the four factors that negatively impacted our first quarter performance and explain how those factors played out this quarter.
As we said in November those Q1 drivers were movements in inventory levels by U.S.
retailers and program timing weakness in our core business trends our decision to frontload marketing spending in Q1 to support new products in Soup and Simple Meals and build the Bolthouse Farms brand and our voluntary recall of a range of Plum Organics products.
We said in November that we expected a positive impact on second quarter results as some of these drivers reversed.
This in fact happens.
Looking first at inventory movements.
Our U.S.
Soup business benefited from positive retailer inventory movements in the second quarter as we anticipated.
That with the change from Q1 grew retailer inventory declines and higher levels coming into the year combined with later holiday timing hurt our Q1 results especially in Soup.
Reflecting the reversal in inventory pressures U.S.
Soup shipments increased in the second quarter driving 5% sales growth.
The late timing of the Thanksgiving holiday season also helped U.S.
Soup and Pepperidge Farm as it pushed shipments into the second quarter as we expected.
We had strong sales and consumption during the holiday season and well executed holiday programs.
For the quarter sales of Campbell's condensed cooking soups grew double digits and Swanson broth was on fire up 21%.
We also grew sales of Pepperidge Farm bread and stuffing.
Let's look more closely at the second factor that we discussed back in November.
Our core business trends.
In the second quarter our core business performance improved especially in U.S.
Simple Meals which delivered 7% growth in sales and 12% growth in earnings.
This performance reflected growth in Soup the acquisition of Plum Organics and higher sales of sauces including our new innovation with Prego white sauces and Campbell's dinner sauces.
As we said in November we begin the fiscal year with the soup promotion plan that was more heavily weighted to the second and third quarters.
Despite strong holiday consumption we didn't get the overall lift in soup that we had anticipated in the quarter from the balance of promotions.
This caused soup shipments in the quarter to be ahead of consumption which was down more than a point for the quarter.
As a result we ended the second quarter with inventory levels that were elevated from the year earlier quarter.
So while we delivered on some soup sales we are far from satisfied with the category consumption and our consumption performance.
Accordingly we have more aggressive plans in the second-half as I will explain in a few minutes.
Turning to Pepperidge Farm.
We delivered 5% growth in Goldfish in the second quarter including crackers and our new Goldfish Puffs.
Sales of Pepperidge Farm cookies increased with growth in Dessert Shop cookies.
Fresh bakery delivered solid performance as the business continues to innovate and leverage our shelf space gains.
Sales in Bolthouse Farms increased 6% with double digit growth in its premium refrigerated beverages and salad dressings.
Bolthouse Farms continues to launch innovative new beverage products supported by increased merchandising.
We continue to increase beverage assortment in the retail perimeter while we are still expanding points of distribution for salad dressings.
Our core U.S.
beverage business and our business in Australia continue to face challenges.
We told you previously that we don't expect U.S.
beverages and our Australian business to be growth drivers this year and that hasn't changed.
But we have taken several important steps in recent months to change the leadership in both of these businesses and build a stronger foundation for future growth.
In U.S.
beverages the second quarter sales decline was largely driven by our planned transition from the Coke distribution system for our single-serve V8 beverages.
Our five-year distribution agreement with Coke concluded on December 31 after both companies elected not to renew the agreement for strategic reasons.
We have established a new national distributor network for immediate consumption supported by a new sales team.
We started shipping in January to our new distributors who are energized and focused on driving growth.
Over time we see immediate consumption as a significant opportunity for expansion for both V8 and Bolthouse Farms.
In our V8 business overall we are seeing improved trends in our V8 100% vegetable juice and continued growth in V8 V-Fusion + Energy.
In Australia we brought in new leadership developed a more focused plan for our core biscuit business and implemented initiatives to drive productivity in that market.
Restoring growth in this important business is a work in progress that will take time.
The third factor recited was frontloaded marketing to support new products.
We told you in the first quarter that our advertising and consumer spend increased 14% to support new products like Campbell's Homestyle soup and Campbell's dinner sauces.
In Q1 we also made our first brand building investment behind Bolthouse Farms.
We knew these upfront marketing investments would negatively impact earnings in the first quarter but our decision has helped to accelerate these brands.
Looking at our marketing spend in the second quarter advertising and consumer promotion for the total company increased 3% including acquisitions.
We are delivering solid performance in Campbell's Skillet sauces and Slow Cooker sauces.
Our dinner sauces are delivering incremental sales in this new category.
We are steadily building trial with very good repeat purchase rates in consumer groups including both younger and more affluent consumers.
Campbell's Homestyle ready-to-serve soup continues to expand distribution and improve velocity.
Homestyle was introduced following the discontinuation of our 100% natural RTS.
This transition narrowed our shelf presence because Homestyle was launched with fewer items.
Going forward we expect to gain back shelf space as we build out the line and introduce new products in the back-half.
The marketing investments behind Bolthouse Farms are raising consumer awareness of this wonderful brand as we aim to expand its position in the $12 billion packaged fresh category.
We were pleased with Bolthouse Farms' solid performance in the second quarter across all of its segments.
The final driver we discussed in November was the voluntary recall of some Plum Organic products.
In the first quarter the company recognized $16 million in cost associated with the recall.
We moved quickly in the second quarter to address the manufacturing defect that led to that recall.
The acquisition of Plum which we completed last June contributed half of our 16% growth in U.S.
sauces in the second quarter.
We believe that Plum which we will continue to integrate is well positioned for a more significant sales contribution in the second-half.
So to briefly summarize the first quarter inventory headwind reversed much as we anticipated.
The Plum recall is behind us.
We feel good that we will obtain a return on the step that advertising.
Our core business however remains a bit behind our expectations for the first-half of the year for the reasons I just enumerated.
So looking at the first-half it was a tale of two cities.
We got off to a slow start but recovered in the second quarter as we said we would.
In the first-half net sales from continuing operations increased 2% adjusted EBIT declined 5% and adjusted EPS decreased 4%.
While we made substantial progress in the second quarter we didn't expect to make up all the growth that we lost in the first quarter.
We recognize that we must deliver strong results in the second-half to achieve our full-year guidance.
In the second-half we expect to grow organic sales by around 2% and acquisitions should contribute about 3% to our sales growth.
For the full-year the extra week in the fiscal year will largely be offset by currency.
So how are we can deliver this growth? Let me start by giving some highlights of our plans in U.S.
Soup and Simple Meals.
We expect U.S.
Soup to deliver modest growth in the second-half of the year.
We have a strong promotional calendar in the third quarter and marketing in place to drive soup consumption in the back-half of the year.
We also expect our U.S.
soup business to benefit from eight new soups that we launched in January under an accelerated timeframe.
These include our first Latin inspired cooking soups new pub inspired varieties of Campbell's chunky soup and new Healthy Request varieties.
By comparison we didn't launch any new soups in the second-half last year.
In Broth we expect to drive continued growth in Swanson with strong Easter programs.
Importantly we expect other businesses to contribute more significantly to growth in the second-half while soup does its part.
In Simple Meals we will continue to build momentum in Campbell dinner sauces.
We have already created separate shell sections for this new category in approximately 50% of the ACV.
We aim to drive continued growth in Prego with more advertising in new products including expanded presence in white sauces a space we weren't competing in a year ago.
And we expect Plum Organics to show improvement from the first-half with the full product range back in supply expanded distribution and several new products.
In Global Baking and Snacking we expect Pepperidge Farm to deliver stronger growth in snacks in the second-half.
We have plans to drive Goldfish with aggressive promotional activity increased customer supported merchandising and accelerated channel expansion.
Pepperidge Farm will increase innovation with new varieties and types of Goldfish the national rollout of Goldfish mac and cheese and further expansion of Goldfish Puffs.
We will continue to expand Dessert Shop cookies with new varieties and we will launch coffee shop cookies indulgent morning offerings.
Internationally we expect to deliver double-digit growth in sweet biscuits in Indonesia and we are focused on marketing Tim Tam Shapes and Arnott's sweet biscuits in Australia with increased advertising and consumer promotion and strong customer programs.
After delivering solid second quarter results we expect a strong second-half from Bolthouse Farms.
We have one of the most exciting spring innovation line-ups in Bolthouse's history with marketing support and plans to launch a number of new beverages and delicious salad dressings.
Although U.S.
beverages won't be a growth engine we do expect to see improved sales and immediate consumption channels over time as we fully develop our new national distributor network which has been established and is operative.
We are also expanding V8 V-Fusion refreshers and we expect continued growth in energy drinks which are performing very well.
Across our portfolio we will be intensely focused on driving productivity and managing expense in our global supply chain.
We expect to deliver improved gross margin trends in the second-half and Craig will discuss why we expect profits to be better.
For the full-year we continue to expect to deliver net sales growth of 4% to 5% adjusted EBIT growth of 4% to 6% and adjusted EPS growth of 2% to 4%.
We know it will require strong execution against the drivers of demand.
We know it will demand operating discipline and we know that we must have a resolute focus on accelerating stronger profitable growth across our core business while we continue to integrate our acquisitions.
We don't expect to get everything back in the third quarter.
It will take a strong fourth quarter performance as well.
We are in the midst of a turbulent period.
Retailers are wrestling with challenged consumers who remain under pressure and consumer behavior is becoming less predictable.
We believe the weakness that Campbell and other food companies experienced in January was partially related to the extreme weather conditions which dealt a blow to the U.S.
economy.
We expect to be competing in a more typical environment over the remainder of the year.
Obviously if the environment is significantly worse than we expect then it will be tougher to reach our guidance.
In summary we are optimistic about our plans for the second-half of the year and believe that with solid execution our full-year guidance is both reasonable and attainable.
Before I turn the call over to Craig Owens I also want to thank him for his contribution to Campbell over the past five years.
As we recently announced Craig will retire from Campbell on May 1.
This will be his last earnings call with us.
And Craig has done an outstanding job as our CFO and Chief Administrative Officer.
With his integrity insights and expertise he has earned the admiration and trust of our leadership team and the investment community.
He will be greatly missed by all.
Now it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Craig.
Well thanks Denise.
It's really been my pleasure to work with Campbell's and to be a part of your management team.
I feel really good about where Campbell is and where it's going and I am particularly happy that Anthony is going to be our next CFO but I am not quite done yet so let's get back to work.
Let me walk through the second quarter results segment highlights and then a brief outlook with respect to our earnings guidance.
As Jennifer mentioned my discussion of results will exclude the impact of restructuring charges in both the current and prior year quarters as well as the acquisition transaction costs of the prior-year.
I will also exclude a loss on foreign exchange forward contracts and a tax expense related to the sale of our European business that were both recorded in continuing operations in the first quarter.
On October 28 2013 which was the first of second quarter the company completed the divestiture of our Simple Meals business in Europe.
This business is reported in discontinued operations.
In the quarter the company recognized a net gain of $90 million after tax or $0.28 per share from that sale.
So for continuing operations we reported second quarter net sales of $2.3 billion a 6% increase from the prior year.
These results include a five point contribution from our Kelsen and Plum Organics acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions as well as the negative impact of currency organic net sales increased by 3% primarily driven by gains in U.S.
Simple Meals.
Organic sales also rose in our Global Baking and Snacking Bolthouse and Foodservice and International Simple Meals and Beverage segments while the U.S.
Beverage sales declined for the quarter.
Adjusted EBIT increased 15% to $374 million which includes a three point contribution from the Kelsen and Plum acquisitions.
The balance of the increase was driven by lower administrative expense higher organic sales and lower marketing expense partly offset by a lower gross margin percentage.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.76 a 19% increase versus the prior-year driven by the EBIT increased and also benefiting from a favorable tax rate.
Slide 24 shows the composition of the 6% sales growth.
The organic sales increase of three points reflects two points of favorable volume and mix and two points of growth from higher selling expense partly offset by one point of increased promotional spending.
Unfavorable currency had a two point impact due to the Australian and Canadian dollar weakening against the U.S.
dollar.
The favorable volume mix is driven by our U.S.
Simple Meals segment.
The pricing gains were primarily related to the list price increase on U.S.
condensed soup and price increases in our Baking and Snacking segment .These increases were partly offset by pricing declines in Mexico based on the new distribution model.
The promotional spending variance was primarily related to higher rates of spending in Global Baking and Snacking and in U.S.
Simple Meals.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 140 basis points to 35.7%.
The decline in gross margin was primarily due to cost inflation supply chain related costs including project expenses weather related costs and higher warehousing and transportation expense and unfavorable mix partly offset by productivity improvements and higher selling prices.
The ate increase in cost of goods sold was approximately 5% in the quarter including two to three points from inflation and the balance from the supply chain cost that I cited above.
This increase was partly offset by productivity savings.
The increase in the cost of goods sold rate for the year is now estimated at 3% to 4% with inflation in materials energy and labor at around to 2% to 3% and our expectation for productivity gains remains at approximately 3%.
Marketing and selling expense for the quarter decreased by $7 million to $268 million.
The decrease was primarily due to lower marketing overhead expense lower advertising and consumer promotional expenses and reduced selling expense of the negative impact of currency partly offset by the addition of Kelsen and Plum Organics.
Excluding acquisitions A&amp;C for the quarter fell by 7% and is up 2% year-to-date as we frontloaded marketing to support new product launches.
Administrative expense decreased $21 million to $142 million primarily due to lower incentive compensation cost lower pension expense and cost savings from recent restructuring initiatives partly offset by the impact of acquisitions which added approximately $7 million.
For the quarter net interest expense decreased by $2 million to $29 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 31% a 170 basis point decrease versus the prior year.
This was primarily due to lower taxes on foreign earnings in the current quarter.
Adjusted earnings from continuing operations increased 19% to $240 million.
The share count was unchanged versus the prior-year.
Second quarter segment sales results and the corresponding organic growth rates are shown on slide 27.
Our U.S.
Simple Meals segment delivered $894 million in sales including a $17 million contribution from the acquisition of Plum.
U.S.
Simple Meals organic sales increased by 5%.
Within the segment U.S.
Soup sales also increased by 5% benefiting from the movements in retailer inventory levels.
As we reported with our Q1 results retailers entered the second quarter with lower inventories than prior-year.
They exited the quarter with inventory somewhat higher than prior-year.
Consumer takeaway in measured channels was down 1% for the quarter.
Excluding the impact of the Plum acquisition U.S.
Sauce sales increased by 8%.
The increase was driven by gains in Prego pasta sauce including its new white sauces the new Campbell's Slow Cooker sauce and Campbell's Skillet sauces.
Our Global Baking and Snacking segment delivered $639 million in sales including a $92 million contribution from Kelsen.
Organic sales increased 2% versus the prior year with growth in Pepperidge Farm in Indonesia partly offset by declines in Arnott's in Australia.
The sales gains in Pepperidge Farm reflected growth across fresh bakery and snacks.
In the bakery business sandwich breads and rolls posted strong gains even as most of its brands have been reintroduced in to the market.
Sales in stuffing also increased for the quarter partially due to the timing of the Thanksgiving holiday.
The Snacks business had another quarter of growth with increases in Goldfish snack crackers and Pepperidge Farm cookies partly offset by declines in adult cracker varieties.
Sales at Arnott's decreased due to declines in Australia in both chocolate and savory varieties partly offset by strong growth in Indonesia.
Our Bolthouse Farms and Foodservice segment posted $359 million sales number an increase of 2%.
Sales rose 6% at Bolthouse driven by double-digit growth in premium refrigerated beverages and salad dressings and single-digit growth in carrot business.
Sales declined in the North America Foodservice segment principally in soup.
For the first-half Bolthouse generated $392 million in sales.
International Simple Meals and Beverages delivered $213 million in sales for the quarter.
Organic sales increased by 1%.
Sales gains in the Asia-Pacific region were partly offset by declines in Latin America.
Sales in Canada were comparable to a year ago as gains in snacks and soup were offset by declines in beverages.
The sales decline in Latin America was due to the lower selling prices associated with the implementation of a new business model in Mexico.
Sales in Asia-Pacific increased due to gains in Malaysia and Japan.
U.S.
Beverage sales declined by 3% to $176 million.
The decrease in sales was driven by declines across the portfolio primarily due to the impact of the transition to a new distribution network in single-serve immediate consumption channels.
In take-home channels we saw positive trends for V8 Red and for Splash beverages.
Operating earnings for the U.S.
Simple Meals segment increased 12% to $214 million.
Operating earnings increased primarily due to productivity improvements higher selling prices and lower marketing expense partly offset by cost inflation and supply chain related costs.
Operating earnings for Global Baking and Snacking increased 19% to $88 million.
The increase was primarily driven by the acquisition of Kelsen higher selling prices and productivity improvements partially offset by cost inflation and higher promotional spending.
The operating expense increase reflected Kelsen's operating results and growth in Pepperidge Farm partly offset by lower earnings in Arnott's.
Kelsen's popularity during the holiday season in Asia skews its profitability heavily to the second quarter.
Within International Simple Meals and Beverages operating earnings were $38 million an increase of 15%.
The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to higher volume lower selling and administrative cost and productivity improvements partially offset by lower selling prices and the unfavorable impact of currency.
Operating earnings within Bolthouse and Foodservice rose by 20% to $36 million primarily due to reduced administrative expense and productivity improvements partially offset by cost inflation.
For the first-half Bolthouse Farms generated $32 million in EBIT.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Beverages decreased by 16% to $31 million.
The decrease in operating earnings was primarily driven by cost of goods.
On slide 30 you can see U.S.
Soup sales increased 5% led by broth.
As expected the year's program timing and the late Thanksgiving holiday had a very positive impact on second quarter sales.
Sales of condensed soup increased 4% driven by double-digit gains in cooking varieties.
Sales of eating varieties were comparable to the year ago quarter.
Higher net pricing was partially offset by lower volumes.
Ready-to-serve soup sales were comparable to a year ago as gains in Chunky and Homestyle can soups were offset by declines in microwavable soup varieties.
Broth sales increased by 21% driven by double-digit volume gains in aseptic and canned broth.
U.S.
Soup sales for the first-half decreased by 1%.
The decrease was due to a 5% decline in ready-to-serve soup and a 1% decrease in condensed soup.
Broth increased by 10% for the half.
On slide 31 we look at the U.S.
wet soup category for the 52 weeks ended January 26 2014 and in our share performance.
The category as a whole rose 1.6%.
Our sales in measured channels rose 1.9% with gains driven by ready-to-serve soup and broth.
Condensed soup sales were comparable to the prior year.
Campbell had a 59.4% market share an increase of 20 basis points for the year.
All other branded players collectively had a share of 28% and private label was at 13%.
These figures were sourced from SymphonyIRI multi-outlet data and are based on dollar sales.
Our second quarter results represent a sharp improvement from the first quarter.
Our position at the end of the first-half is entirely consistent with the guidance expectation we set when we reported the first quarter.
For the first-half net sales from continuing operations were $4.4 billion a 2% increase from the prior year.
These results include a four point contribution from acquisitions which consist of Plum Organics and Kelsen which was acquired on August 8 and one additional week of results from Bolthouse Farms which was acquired one week into the first quarter a year ago.
Excluding acquisitions and the negative impact of currency organic net sales decreased by 1% driven by declines in U.S.
Beverages and International Simple Meals and Beverages partly offset by gains in Global Baking and Snacking.
Organic sales were comparable to the prior year in our U.S.
Simple Meals and Bolthouse and Foodservice segments.
Adjusted EBIT decreased 5% to $711 million primarily due to a lower gross margin percentage lower organic sales and expenses related to the Plum Organics recall partly offset by lower administrative expense.
Adjusted earnings per share were $1.42 a 4% decrease versus the prior year driven by the EBIT decline partly offset by the lower adjusted tax rate.
The composition of the 2% sales increase includes an organic sales decrease of one point unfavorable currency of two points and an acquisition contribution of four points.
The detail doesn't add because of the rounding.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 180 basis points to 35.8%.
The decline in gross margin was primarily attributable to cost inflation and supply chain related cost the impact of acquisitions and the Plum recall partly offset by productivity improvements.
Marketing and selling expenses increased $18 million to $529 million.
The increase was primarily driven by the addition of acquisitions and higher advertising and consumer promotion expense partly offset by the impact of currency and lower marketing overhead expense.
Administrative expenses decreased $28 million to $290 million primarily due to lower incentive compensation cost lower pension expense and cost savings from recent restructuring initiatives partly offset by the impact of acquisitions which added about $10 million.
For the first-half net interest expense decreased by $5 million to $59 million.
The decrease was primarily due to lower average interest rates on our total debt portfolio and benefits from the proceeds from the sale of our European Simple Meals business partly offset by debt incurred to fund the Kelsen and Plum acquisitions.
The adjusted tax rate for the first-half was 31.6% a 70 basis point decrease versus the prior year primarily due to lower taxes on foreign earnings in 2014.
This was partially offset by a favorable settlement of the state tax matter in 2013.
Adjusted earnings from continuing operations decreased by 4% to $449 million and adjusted earnings per share from continuing ops decreased to $1.42 for the first-half.
Cash flow from operations was $363 million compared with $499 million in the prior year.
The decline was primarily due to taxes paid on the divestiture of the European Simple Meals business and lower cash earnings in fiscal 2014.
Capital expenditure of $127 million rose from $110 million a year ago.
We are still expecting capital expenditures for the year to be about $350 million.
As we previously announced we suspended the strategic share repurchase program at the end of fiscal 2012 in order to reduce debt incurred to finance the Bolthouse acquisition.
However we will continue to repurchase shares sufficient to offset dilution from equity compensation programs.
Net debt has decreased by $107 million to $3.9 billion.
Results from the European Simple Meals business are reported as discontinuing operations.
The company completed the divestiture of its European Simple Meals business to CVC Capital Partners on October 28.
In the second quarter the company recognized a net gain of $90 million after-tax or $0.28 per share from the sale.
For the first-half the net earnings from discontinued operations were $81 million or $0.26 per share.
Campbell reiterated our annual guidance this morning.
We expect continuing operations to grow sales by 4% to 5% adjusted EBIT by 4% to 6% and adjusted EPS by 2% to 4%.
As a reminder fiscal 2014 is comprised of 53 weeks one additional week compared to the prior-year the benefit of which is expected to be mostly offset by the impact of currency translation.
The contribution to sales from acquisitions is anticipated to be nearly $300 million.
As we have said before in connection with the new business model in Mexico reported sales and cost of products sold will be reduced by approximately $35 million.
Interest expense is estimated at about $120 million for the year and the tax rate is projected to be between 31% and 32%.
EPS growth reflects the impact of a significant increase in the tax rate versus an unusually low rate for the last year.
Thank you.
With that I will turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Craig.
At this time we will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
We would like to request that our callers limit themselves to a single question so we can respond to more people who are on the line.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Andrew.
Denise I was hoping to get just a little more perspective from you on I think you had said the consumption around core U.S.
Soup or the lift basically that you are expecting from some of the activities you did in the quarter didn't really have the anticipated effect.
Is your sense that that was just all sort of some of the rough weather we have been having or were there some other aspect to that that played into it? Well last year's weather contributed to the 5% growth but we think it drove less than half of those gains.
We believe that our improved execution and more effective marketing and the introduction of new products were the key drivers last year.
This year we were really satisfied with our holiday consumption but January we did get lifts on our promotion but they weren't quite what we expected.
And basically we have to do a better job in the second-half driving consumption.
So you think the consumption or the lifts that weren't right where you wanted them was primarily just the weather we had more recently or you mean to say you didn't do a good enough? I am trying to get a sense of what didn't go as planned or where the improvements will come from? Yes.
We have assessed that weather is neutral to us in this quarter.
We definitely acknowledge a benefit of cold temperatures but we think it was offset by unfavorable weather disruptions.
We had plant closures for a while retail store closures and some lost business in the Foodservice sector.
Okay.
Thanks for the color.
Next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Eric.
Craig I don't know if you are going to be down in CAGNY but it's been a pleasure working with you.
Best of luck.
Thank you.
I will be at CAGNY.
Okay all right.
Then I will save the party until next week I guess maybe kind of following up on Andrew's question a bit.
Just a couple of points around soup.
One is how do we judge like the broth sales being so strong versus arguably the soup side of it a bit weaker and how is it that one could be so strong and the other not in the same type of environment? Then two you brought forward a new product soup sales from I think what you were going to introduce them next season into this season after the fiscal first quarter and I find that to be kind of unusual to the extent that the soup category shelf set et cetera are normally set quite early.
So I am kind of wondering how effective can new products be introduced in the heart of the season when the retailers are kind of normally setting it up way ahead of time? Okay I will answer both.
First of all on the broth business.
We were very pleased with our performance on broth and we attribute it to a number of factors.
First of all starting with the consumer we have seen an increase in homemade soup behavior I mean people are making more soup at home and they are cooking more with broth which is great.
We do think that that's partially driven by some of the innovation we have brought to the broth segment of the soup category with new flavor infused varieties and we have also changed our advertising campaign to really emphasize insights on why I cook.
We think the combination of all of those have really helped the business.
As I said we had a strong holiday.
In regards to the new off-cycle products our retailers are looking for growth and fortunately we now have a pipeline with more products ready to go to market.
So we view this as positive because we are doing something different and continuing to increase our new surrounding soup.
Okay I will pass it on.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning folks.
Hi Jason.
So I wanted to ask some questions on the Beverage side of your portfolio.
I apologize if I missed this in prepared remarks.
But can you elaborate more on your new routes to market for immediate consumption channels with V8? And also give us an update on the similar initiative that I think you have going on with Bolthouse to try to push into those channels? Okay.
We have had for the last five-years a contract with Coca-Cola for immediate consumption distribution of V8 and that ended on December 31.
Over the last year of that contract we have continued to work with Coke and effective January 1 we were able to ship V8 products to a new network of distributors for national distribution.
In addition we are now out working with predominantly convenient store customers to make sure that we not only secure the V8 distribution that we had but expand it.
We now have the benefit of going to market with both V8 and Bolthouse Farms which gives us in total that just both all retail channels about $1 billion of healthy beverage business.
So we feel like we have got a great program going forward on immediate consumption.
It is a large part of other beverage company's sales and profits and it's a very small part of ours.
So we see this as a really great opportunity for us.
Okay and sticking on beverages.
Given your relationship with Green Mountain on the soup initiative.
I am curious if you could comment on your attempt with either V8 or Bolthouse Farms into its new cold beverage platform? We continue to work with Green Mountain on the development of the new Fresh-Brewed Soup K-Cup product and we do not have plans at this point for V8 or Bolthouse Farms execution.
Great.
Thank you guys Next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Hi Chris.
Hi look forward to seeing you at the CAGNY.
Just a quick question for you if I could to understand the second quarter benefit you received from inventory.
And really what I am trying to get to is it sounds like inventory levels need to come down a little bit in the second-half of the year.
So did you quantify or can you quantify the benefit to Q2 or maybe what you believe would have come out in the second-half for the year? Well the benefit to Q2 I would look at that as the difference between consumption which was down one and inventory which was up five less some of the low level that we entered the quarter with.
It's hard to quantify looking forward.
Remember that inventories are moving in a big bell curve through the season anyways.
So when we talk about inventory movement we are talking about difference to prior year at the beginning and end of the quarter.
But they are always coming down in the second quarter and they will be coming down in the third quarter.
It depends on where we end.
I think it's fair to say we need to get good consumption and good execution in the third quarter and get the inventory overhang that's out there consumed as we move through the quarter and that's why I mean we feel pretty good about that as Denise referenced.
We have got a lot of programming in the quarter and we are looking forward to seeing that work for us.
This is more of a program frequency than program depth too.
Right.
I just mentioned that.
Next question.
Sorry did you want to continue with this? Well that's okay.
Thank you.
I will leave it there.
Thanks Chris.
Next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
I don't claim to be the best modeler in the world but my SG&amp;A modeling has obviously gotten worse and worse here with Campbell and I want to know if you could help me here.
Your admin costs are well below what I thought and they are well below a year ago.
I know you have had some restructuring but do you think your admin costs are going to be down year-over-year? And then also Craig on the gross margin I think last quarter you said you expected to be slightly higher versus a year ago.
You seem to be kind of angling at lower now.
How much of a headwind on gross margin should we expect for the year.
So SG&amp;A first.
I think we would expect SG&amp;A to be down versus prior year.
We are benefiting from the restructuring activities that we pursued.
You will continue to see benefit from that.
You will see benefit from that in the second-half.
Pension cost is a positive for us this year.
It looks like we are headed for a little bit lower incentive compensation cost.
So all of those things will run favorably and looks like they will help us in the second-half too.
Gross margin has been negatively impacted in the first quarter.
Well actually really in the first-half but particularly in the second quarter.
In the first quarter we had the Plum recall and in the half we have had some project expense work that's fallen into cost of sales maybe a little bit higher than what we originally anticipated.
We have had some weather related costs.
The weather has been so severe we actually had soup freeze in some of our transportation and have to be destroyed and that sort of thing.
So we have had some kind of one-off impacts in cost of sales in the first-half.
As I look toward the second-half.
I will try this again I think our gross margin will be pretty similar to what it was last year but clearly we won't recapture everything that we have lost in the first-half.
And consumer marketing? Did your budget for that change at all? Are you going to be flat this year? Where are you going to be? For the full-year I would expect us -- We will be a little bit below the sales growth.
Yes.
Well so did that change during the course of the year or is that --? Yes we had expected it to be a little bit above the rate of sales and now we are forecasting to be a little bit below.
Okay.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thanks Rob.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Bryan.
Hi Bryan.
First question I just wanted to follow-up I guess on Rob's question.
If you kind of back the envelope math to get the low end of the guidance operating income has to grow by about $90 million in the second-half of the year.
Just how much of that is sales dependent? And how much of it is going to be more dependent upon some of the cost phasing and some of the lower cost in the second-half? I am just trying to tease out how much of the profit growth is really just purely sales dependent and how much is going to be year-on-year comps or other programmatic savings? Yes.
Yes.
Go ahead Anthony.
We looked at this pretty closely and actually only a small part of it derived from the organic sales growth.
A big portion is in the G&amp;A line related to the items that Craig just talked about.
Also don't forget the 53rd week has a significant impact in the fourth quarter as well.
Having said that as Denise said we do need better sales performance in the second-half than we had in the first-half given the weak first quarter.
Right and we expect organic sales up 2% and 3% from acquisitions.
And okay don't forget that you have got a 53rd week and the acquisition contribution in the back-half.
Right.
But that optic of having such a big profit ramp in the back-half it doesn't look as challenging as it does when you factor in some of the cost comparisons or some of the other factors in the second-half.
Exactly.
When you take it apart it doesn't have to be driven by really extraordinary sales results or anything.
Okay and then also just a follow-up on Jason's question relative to the distribution changeover at V8.
Has that started yet? And do you any expect to see any sort of impact on sales in terms of just maybe pipeline fill and subsequently have you seen any sort of change in inventories may be bled down? Just trying to understand if there is any lumpiness in that that we should expect going forward? Yes.
It is an effect effective January 1 and we did see wind down in sales to Coke in the second quarter.
We will be and are shipping now to the new distribution network.
We believe that there will be pipeline fill and increased sales over time.
So that's probably the best I can do at this point.
The ramp-up probably won't be quite as dramatic because it's across a large number of distributors that will be coming on as we move through the quarter.
Okay and the distributors are they beverage distributors or are they more general merchandise distributors? Trying to understand who or what the --? They are distributors that cater to the immediate consumption channels largely convenience stores and single-serve products.
So it's a multiple-line distributor Bryan.
Got it great.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Look forward to you guys next week.
You are welcome.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with Credit Agricole.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi Diane.
I just wanted to ask a couple of your peers have talked about spending cuts under the SNAP program and the headwind to sales.
I just was wondering if there was any way to quantify what the might mean for Campbell across the features of your portfolio that are attractive to those consumers? I think it's very difficult for us to quantify.
I would put it into the larger basket of consumer headwind issues that are out there.
I think you have seen us and our peers under a lot of pressure to get volume growth.
You have seen the grocers under pressure to get volume growth.
So I think its part of what's playing in.
I think it's really difficult to segregate out that specific impact.
Yes.
They are dealing with lower employment higher payroll taxes healthcare changes lower discretionary spending available on food.
So the food stamp is part of all of that.
Okay.
I appreciate the color there.
Then just a follow-up on the beverage Coke distribution.
Was there anything in that contract that prevented you from having products in competing categories? I guess what I am asking is now that you have a different distribution network are there categories that would be available for you to expand into that perhaps before you weren't allowed in? At this point we are focused on expanding the beverage because that's a huge opportunity for us.
I probably think there weren't any contractual limitations? As we look ahead the new distribution model does provide us some opportunities to expand beyond the beverage category into some of our other Simple Meals categories as we push it into immediate consumption channels.
And it also gives us the opportunity to while the route to market is a little bit different because it's a chilled route to market for Bolthouse and at shelf-stable even though it's going into refrigerated spaces for V8.
It gives us an opportunity to go to distributors and to go to retailers on a joint basis now that we didn't really have under the Coke agreement.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Diane.
Next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Hi Akshay.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just wanted to ask about marketing in light of the lower spending that you are expecting now.
It's specific to Bolthouse.
I know you have spent some money on that brand and I think that was the first initiative behind that brand period.
So can you just give us a sense or just an update on Bolthouse and what returns you are sort of seeing from these early investments you made? What does that imply for long-term growth trajectory of that business? Then if you could just comment on which brands or categories are the ones where you are cutting the marketing? That would be helpful.
Thank you.
In terms of Bolthouse Farms recall this is the first marketing effort that we have had on this brand since it's been newly acquired and the marketing largely met our expectations.
We were actually very pleased with the results and we will continue to market that brand in the second-half of this year and invest in it going forward.
In terms of the other categories we have been focusing our marketing largely at competitive levels on our core brands and at ramped up levels on our new products such as the Campbell's cooking sauces and Homestyle and Prego.
The only place I can tell you that we will course correct going forward as we believe we did not spend at the appropriate level on condensed eating soup and we will be course correcting that going forward.
In terms of where the reductions are I think beverages will be a little lower than our original thinking there as we shift some of that probably to more trade related activity and as we continue to work our way through some of the headwinds that we have seen in beverage and maybe a little bit lighter in Pepperidge but we are not going to be very different from the shape of our original expectation.
It was always heavily front-loaded to support the new product introductions and to do the first advertising around Bolthouse and it was always intended to taper back closer to the prior year or slightly below for the balance of the years.
And just long-term implications of whatever you have learnt from the advertising dollars you spent on Bolthouse? Can you at least share what you learnt from the marketing initiatives that you took on Bolthouse? Thank you.
I will pass it on.
I think it's probably a little early to give the full readout from that but I would fully anticipate that we will continue to be more active in terms of brand building around Bolthouse than they have been historically there.
We really think that's one of the opportunities that we have looking forward with the brand.
We will take a note to make that part of our review at Analyst Day in July.
Thank you.
I will pass it on.
The next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning.
Hi David.
Hi David.
Good morning David.
I want to go back on soup for just a minute.
An important question here.
We have done some analysis on the multi-year trends.
Third quarter of last year was absolutely a superstar quarter for consumption within our Nielsen data.
Your results as well.
So Denise how do you think about this expectation that second quarter consumption underperforms but yet the requirement is for third quarter to be a strong one yet it faces singularly the most difficult comparison that you faced in quite a number of years.
We acknowledge the fact that we did have a very good third quarter last year but we feel as we look at our plans in the back-half that they are robust and we are doing some things over the top of what we did last year to have a different outcome.
So we have greater promotional frequency.
We are launching eight new soups including our first Hispanic cooking soups.
We are expanding pub inspired Chunky soups which are doing really really well.
Some of those are in the top selling SKUs of all soup and we are building more momentum on broth with a bigger Easter program.
So we believe that we have robust plans and we are planning on cycling quarter three and quarter four with positive momentum on soup.
All right.
I appreciate the answer.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Alexia.
Hi Alexia.
Can I ask about the outlook on the commodity cost side? There seem to be a lot of moving pieces there.
On the one hand the grain envelope is down which might help the Pepperidge Farm business.
On the other hand we have got droughts in California and meat pressures kicking in as well.
As you look out through the second-half of the year is the commodity outlook pretty benign at this point? Is that one of the reasons why the profit growth should start to accelerate in the second-half? Thank you.
Yes.
So in the second-half not much different on the commodity front on the inflation rate front.
We will benefit from not having as I described earlier some of the one-off cost that we have had that if you had cost of sales in the first-half but we are still looking for an inflation rate on inputs and if you just narrow it down to materials it's more like 1% to 2% 2.5%.
Once you put labor and other overhead cost in it it gets up to kind of 2% to 3%.
Then in the first-half we have been impacted with another point of unusual cost item.
So not much impact in the second-half.
As we look forward to next year you are right.
The drought in California is probably going to have an impact on our tomato and our processed tomato cost structure.
Obviously you are right about grains a little bit relief for Pepperidge going forward.
But not much impact in the second-half.
As you know we have got a commodity buying program that keeps us out a little bit ahead of the curve and we are pretty well locked in for the balance of this year.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I will pass it on.
Thanks.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Thilo Wrede with Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
You have owned Plum for three quarters now.
What are your learnings on the brand? What I mean is what do you know now about the consumer that you didn't know before about the new channels that you got into with that brand? Is there any overlap between Plum and Bolthouse because they cater more to millennials probably that you can exploit? It's still early days of owning Plum.
So far despite the recall situation that we had we are continuing to see the brand grow in sales.
However we have been really focused on getting back in to business on that brand throughout our customer base before we start really expanding distribution and bringing out new products which will start to happen in the second-half.
So it's still early days but we are very pleased with the brand and with the business.
So no learnings yet that you are willing to share? No not yet.
I mean other than the fact that we studied the category before we made the acquisition and we know it's a higher growth space which is very consistent with our strategy and it also is a very popular brand with millennials.
It's a negative circumstance to have the recall but one thing that we have seen is that Plum consumers are very loyal to the brand.
I think they really appreciated the way that we have communicated and handled that recall process.
They have been very communicative through that process on social media and that sort of things and it has proved to be despite the negative starting point to be a pretty good selection of brand loyalty.
Yes they sort of said through velocities too at the stores where we are fully in-stock.
So that's an encouraging thing.
Okay.
Thanks.
You are welcome.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Matt.
Hi Matthew.
Just two quick ones since we are in overtime here.
One I just wanted to check in on the Goldfish Puffs launch.
Just it's been very visible.
It's had a lot of display.
It seems to be well promoted.
So what can you tell us at this point about trial and incrementality to sort of the overall consumption on the brand? Goldfish Puffs has been one of our better introductions and it's largely meeting our expectations.
Inclusive of new products Goldfish was up 5%.
So Puffs certainly helped contribute to that sales growth.
Okay.
Then if you link it to slightly older consumer which we think is more incremental for us.
Targeted towards teens and that seems to be a good market for us beyond kids and it's performing very well.
Okay and are you at the point now where you have a view on repeat purchase or still early? Still early.
Okay and then just quickly on the inventory.
Just as we are thinking through the mix implications going into next quarter is that more concentrated in ready-to-serve? Is it broadly across soup? Or are there other categories implicated? I would say it weighs more to the ready-to-serve category.
Okay great.
Thanks Anthony.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Hi David.
Hi David.
When you look back at that first-half and you think about the ROI on the innovation spend that you had in the first quarter and advertising in that quarter or the promotion spending in the second quarter how are you reviewing that as you are thinking about your tactics into the second-half of the year? Will you pursue a similar strategy or perhaps adjusting that somewhat? Obviously on the advertising we definitely frontloaded the year.
It was up 14% in the first quarter.
So that will not be repeated obviously.
We expect a more normal ACT in the back-half.
If you think about innovation against our dinner sauce it's hard to think about that over a quarter or even half.
We are investing to create a new behavior in a new category in a new shelf space.
So we are investing pretty heavily to develop that market and we look at it more on a long-term ROIC basis.
I am just asking because it seem like you tried I can appreciate the fact that you have you are pursuing something more incremental something more that needs a little bit more explaining in the first quarter advertising spend but it does feel like a lot of companies that have pursued more incremental with the advertising have had disappointing returns on that.
So I don't know if that's just in general an indictment on the media spend in general and how you are thinking about that going forward.
I think it's again really difficult.
We are still in the trial building phase.
Well on something like dinner sauces purchase cycle is fairly long.
So it does take some time and some investment.
So again I think it's hard to respond to a quarter question.
So we are intentionally investment spending.
We know on these new product introductions as you know you are not going to get the return in the quarter on the spending.
So I think you have to look at it over a little bit longer period of time and see how the trial and repeat builds.
Thanks.
Next question.
Our next question comes from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you so much for taking the question.
I believe on the last call you had mentioned a possibility to refinance at least part of your August maturities.
First is that still the case? Second if so how are you thinking about potentially adding change of control language to the future bond issuances and potentially retroactively adding it in existing bonds? Thank you.
So it's hard for me to see much advantage to adding it retroactively to bond issuances that are out there.
We will consider it going forward but I feel well it's just too early to say.
Anthony will give that some consideration as we look forward to our future bond issuances.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just a quick housekeeping.
Where should we expect your debt reduction to be by the end of the year either absolutely or in terms of your leverage? Well I think if you look at the absolute numbers once you take out the noise created by the European divestiture and the purchases of Kelsen and Plum it should be sort of a normal operating cash year for us.
We tend to fall somewhere between $800 million and $1 billion of operating cash flow on an annual basis.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
Thanks.
Let's just take one last question.
Our final question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
sorry if I missed this but did you quantify the impact of the Slow Cooker sauces in the quarter? I am sorry I couldn't quite hear that.
Could you repeat that? Yes.
Did you quantify the impact of the Slow Cooker sauce in this quarter in the sauces business? We didn't but we may be able to if I talk long enough.
While we are looking I will give you the replay.
It's going to be available two hours after the call concludes.
You will dial (703)-925-2533 and the passcode is 1630990.
We will have that up till February 28 is that long enough Anthony? Yes it is.
There sauces contributed about a point of sales growth to the U.S.
Simple Meals segment.
One point.
And then Denise can you just walk through how you are seeing those aisle merchandising programs developing at retail with your customers? Are you talking about on the cooking sauces? Yes those you are adding the square footage in the aisles.
Recall when we introduced Skillet sauces last year we had the situation where it was merchandised in about five different places in the grocery store.
So we worked diligently this year for our customers to place a section of cooking sauces in the store.
It varies where that is located but typically it is sauce section or even next to broth.
But what it does is it gives worthy of space to ourselves and some of our competitors but it gives the consumer a destination to know where to shop for these kinds of products and since we are building a platform that's been a strategic imperative.
Okay.
So are you seeing a generally favorable buying with that from the retailer's perspective? I think about half of them.
Yes about half of them.
Right exactly.
Okay.
That's great.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thanks everybody for joining us for our second quarter earnings call.
We appreciate your patience as we try to clear out the queue a little bit.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at (856)-342-3737.
Investors and analysts should please call me Jennifer Driscoll at (856)-342-6081.
Have a great Valentine's Day and hope to see you at CAGNY next week and we will conclude our program now.
You may disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect.
Everyone have a good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to introduce to your host for today's conference Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kate.
Hello everyone.
Welcome to the third quarter fiscal 2014 earnings call and webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Anthony DiSilvestro our new Chief Financial Officer; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
I am going to comment first on items impacting comparability in the quarter.
Denise will follow me with a high level perspective on our third quarter.
Anthony will wrap it up with a more detailed look at the financial and segment results as well as our guidance.
After that we will take your questions.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com and on our IR app which is available through Google or Apple.
Please keep in mind that this call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
Our presentation today includes forward-looking statements which reflect the company's current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to slide three in the presentation or to the company's most recent Form 10-K and subsequent SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
Now for those items impacting comparability.
Our discussion of the third quarter will exclude an $18 million pre-tax pension settlement charge associated with the U.S.
pension plan.
In fiscal 2014 we recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $14 million to streamline business operations in China.
In the first quarter we recorded pre-tax restructuring charges and related cost of $23 million to streamline our salaried workforce in North America and our workforce in the Asia Pacific region and to previously announced initiatives.
Our discussion of year-to-date results will exclude restructuring charges our loss on foreign exchange forward contracts and a tax expense related to the sale of our European business in the current year.
Last year we recorded $21 million of pre-tax restructuring charges and related costs in the third quarter and $48 million in the second quarter related to our U.S.
supply chain structure and the manufacturing and distribution capabilities in Mexico.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2013 we recorded $43 million of restructuring charges and related costs associated with the U.S.
supply chain initiatives and $10 million of transaction costs associated with the Bolthouse acquisition.
Since our presentation includes non-GAAP measures as defined by SEC rules we provided a reconciliation of the measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures as an appendix to the slides accompanying our presentation.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly financials also can be found on our website accessible by computer or on your mobile device with the Campbell IR app.
I’ve got one more thing if I could we’d like to cordially invite our sale side analysts and the buy side to our Annual Investor Day at Campbell World Headquarters.
This year’s event will be held in the morning of July 22nd Tuesday and will feature presentations by Denise Morrison Anthony DiSilvestro and several other Campbell leaders.
We will unveil our innovations for the next year outline our new beverage strategy describe plans for soup and provide the tasty luncheon featuring Campbell products.
We hope you will join us either via webcast or better yet live or at World Headquarters here in Camden New Jersey RSVPs are required for those attending in person.
And with that let me turn it over to Denise.
Thank you Jennifer and welcome everyone.
Thanks for joining Campbell’s earnings call.
Our sales results for the quarter were mixed.
Sales in U.S.
Simple Meals grew 7% powered by strong topline performance in our sauce business.
Plum Organics added 4 points to our sales growth in Simple Meals.
Bolthouse Farms delivered 6% top-line growth over the prior year.
Biscuit sales in Asia-Pacific grew driven by double-digit growth in Indonesia.
However we did not grow our U.S.
Soup business and experienced sales declines in U.S.
Beverages Pepperidge Farm and our business in Australia.
Overall organic net sales grew 1% which was 1% below our expectations and I am disappointed that we failed to deliver the sales growth that we anticipated in the third quarter.
We believe this is in part a reflection of the persistence of an exceptionally challenging consumer environment.
As many others in the industry have noted consumers are suffering from continuing underemployment reductions in the SNAP program and rising home fuel and healthcare costs.
In combination these factors are significantly affecting purchasing behavior pressuring the performance of a number of our key customers and constraining growth across the industry particularly in center store categories.
Our adjusted EBIT increased 12% in the third quarter reflecting lower administrative expenses including lower incentive compensation costs and our cost reduction efforts.
This was more than sufficient to offset the impact of a reduced gross margin percentage and deliver positive EBIT performance.
Following our strong results in the second quarter we reaffirmed our external guidance for the fiscal year which called for sales growth of 4% to 5%; adjusted EBIT growth of 4% to 6%; and adjusted EPS growth of 2% to 4%.
As we communicated at the time achieving this level of performance was predicated on improving our marketplace performance relative to the first half.
Unfortunately our performance in U.S.
Soup did not improve in Q3 and sales of Pepperidge Farm were below expectations.
Consequently we are lowering our sales guidance for the full year to 3% growth.
We are maintaining our previous full year guidance on earnings; however we are refining our estimates to the low end of the 4% to 6% range for adjusted EBIT growth and the low end of the 2% to 4% range for adjusted EPS growth.
Let me offer some perspective on our performance in the quarter.
Sales in U.S.
Soup were comparable to the strong year-ago quarter when sales increased by 14%.
Within soup broth sales grew 14% but condensed soup and RTS soup posted declines.
Within soup we have been refining how we optimize all drivers of demand.
In the third quarter we redeployed funds from advertising and consumer promotion to support increased trade promotion activity.
We held our promoted price points and increased promotional frequency extending across a broader customer base.
While we executed the programs effectively the enhanced trade promotion did not yield the anticipated lift in volume.
In addition to a strong promotion plan we introduced 8 new soups in January under an accelerated timeframe including pub inspired Chunky Healthy Request and Latin inspired condensed soups.
On balance they generated the sales we had anticipated.
However all of this activity did not generate the incremental sales that we had expected.
Overall dollar consumption in the U.S.
soup category has declined marginally year-to-date and our share has remained relatively stable.
I can assure you that we are examining the same questions that you are and we are formulating the most effective responses for next season.
Within Simple Meals we did have some bright spots.
Our Broth condensed cooking soups and sauces grew nicely.
The common threat with these products is that consumers are combining them with fresh ingredients to prepare home cooked meals.
Prego's growth got a significant boost from our expanding line of White sauces and innovation with Red distinctive sauces Campbell's Skillet sauces and new Slow Cooker sauces in pouch packaging have now achieved 76% ACV distribution with 60% of retailers giving this new segment a dedicated section in the store.
Sales continued to build as expected for those products.
Our goal remains to increase our competitiveness and profitably grow our core business.
I feel that our Simple Meals business remain competitive in the third quarter despite falling short of our topline expectations in soup.
Turning to Global Baking and Snacking Pepperidge Farm sales were softer than anticipated.
Goldfish crackers achieved modest sales growth of 2% boosted in part by Goldfish Puffs which are performing well.
Goldfish crackers grew sales on the back of increased promotions in a very competitive environment and gained momentum as the quarter progressed.
However we saw a significant slowdown in the overall cracker category and a decline in our adult savory crackers which impacted our overall snacks results.
We have reformulated and re-launched our adult savory crackers as Pepperidge Farm Cracker Chips and expect better performance going forward.
Pepperidge Farm cookies had a weaker than expected performance also wrapping a strong year-ago quarter.
Pepperidge Farm bakery grew as we maintained our shelf space and increased sales of sandwich rolls and buns.
It is evident that we have held our own despite the reentry of Hostess in the marketplace.
Internationally we continue to deliver double-digit growth in Indonesia.
During the quarter we remained focused on stabilizing our Arnott's biscuit business in Australia for the long-term.
The Kelsen acquisition at the start of the fiscal year has given us a growth platform for biscuits in China and Hong Kong Kelsen is tracking with our expectations.
Turning to our U.S.
beverage business we said before it wouldn't be a growth engine this year.
The shelf stable beverage category continued to be pressured by competition from a growing array of package fresh and specialty juices.
We were encouraged by the third quarter performance of our V8 Red 100% vegetable juice which has now delivered sales growth for four consecutive months.
Our V8 Energy during continued their strong growth trajectory but V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash declined.
In single serve we continued to make progress in building our new national distributor network for immediate consumption channels.
We plan to discuss our new strategy to revitalize U.S.
Beverages at Campbell’s Investor Day in July.
Bolthouse Farms is on track to deliver the second half growth that we expected.
Third quarter sales of premium refrigerated beverages and salad dressings grew double-digits.
Bolthouse Farms is launching its spring innovation suite of 47 new products ranging from new stone fruit and root vegetable juices to delicious Greek yogurt salad dressings.
We made a decision this year to make our first investments in Bolthouse Farms’ advertising and we’re pleased with the market share volume trends and brand awareness.
Our acquisition of Plum Organics enabled us to enter the fast growing organic segment of the U.S.
baby food category.
In the second half we expected Plum to show improvement with the full product range back in supply expanding distribution and introducing several new products it has done so.
We continue to believe that Plum is a well-positioned on-trend brand that is an excellent fit with our $1 billion portfolio of foods that appeal to children.
Before I turn the call over to Anthony I want to share a few final observations about the third quarter and our strategy.
We said in the second quarter that we expected gross margin in the second half to be flat.
However in the third quarter our gross margin was negatively impacted by lower sales volume because our trade spending did not result in the expected sales increases.
Finally our continuing focus on disciplined cost management is making a difference on the bottom-line as we delivered third quarter earnings growth in a very competitive environment.
To sum up we are making no excuses for our disappointing sales.
We own the results.
Our third quarter sales did not meet our expectations or yours.
But our team remains resolutely focused on executing our dual mandate to strengthen our core business and expand in the higher growth spaces.
We have no elusions about the challenges that we are facing in a tough environment we are not alone in that regard which is why we are also focused on driving growth through four bold moves delivering breakthrough innovation building our presence in package fresh foods increasing availability in faster growing channels and expanding in developing markets.
We believe that we have the right long-term strategy to deliver sustainable profitable net sales growth and build shareholder value.
We continue to reshape Campbell to respond to the seismic shifts in our industry and meet the evolving needs of increasingly diverse consumers.
We have come far since our journey began in 2011 and I look forward to sharing more details about the next steps on our strategic path at Campbell’s Investor Day on July 22nd.
Thank you I look forward to answering your questions in a few minute now I would like to turn the call over to Anthony DiSilvestro our new CFO.
Good morning and thanks Denise.
Before getting into the detail I wanted to give some perspective on our results and guidance.
As you will see the shape of our P&amp;L reflects a shift within our marketing programs.
While total marketing which includes advertising consumer and trade is up for both the quarter and the year we have redeployed funds from A&amp;C to support increased trade promotions.
This is reflected on the P&amp;L as a lower gross margin percentage with a offset in lower A&amp;C expense which we report in our marketing and selling line.
The second item I want to highlight is the significant reduction in our administrative expenses.
Because our fiscal 2014 results are below our expectations we are accruing incentive compensation below targeted levels.
Lower pension expense and the savings from our recent restructuring initiatives are also contributing to this decline in administrative cost.
Lastly we are reducing our guidance for sales growth.
As Denise mentioned in our U.S.
Soup business we increased our promotional activity; however we did not realize the anticipated volume lift.
Additionally in Pepperidge Farm our volumes have been impacted by increased competitive activity in the snacks category and in response we have also increased our promotional spending.
As a result of these two issues we are lowering our expectations for full year sales growth to approximately 3%.
Now I will review our results.
I will start with our third quarter results and segment highlights followed by a brief look at our year-to-date results and then wrap up with our full year guidance.
As Jennifer mentioned my discussion of result will exclude items impacting comparability.
For the third quarter we reported net sales from continuing operations of $1 970 million comparable to the year ago quarter.
As Denise mentioned we were disappointed with our sales in the quarter as U.S.
Soup and Pepperidge Farm sales were below our expectations.
Our sales results include a 2 point contribution from Kelsen and Plum Organics acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions and the negative impact of currency organic net sales increased by 1% driven by gains in our U.S.
Simple Meals and our Bolthouse and Foodservice segments partly offset by decline in International Simple Meals and Beverages and in U.S.
Beverages.
The organic sales increase was on top of last year’s 4% gains.
Adjusted EBIT increased 12% to $310 million.
The increase was driven by lower administrative expenses.
Lower marketing expenses offset the lower gross margin percentage which reflected higher promotional spending.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.62 a 7% increase versus the prior year reflecting the EBIT growth partly offset by a higher tax rate.
The next slide shows the composition of our sales performance.
The organic sales increase of 1% reflects 2 points of favorable volume mix and 2 points of growth from higher selling prices partly offset by 3 points from increased promotional spending.
Unfavorable currency had a 2 point impact due to the Australian and Canadian dollars weakening against the U.S.
dollar while acquisitions added 2 points.
The favorable volume mix is driven by our U.S.
Simple Meals and our Bolthouse and Foodservice segments.
The pricing gains were primarily related to our list price increases on U.S.
condensed soup and in our Global Baking and Snacking segment.
The promotional spending variance was primarily related to higher rates of spending in Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Simple Meals.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 1.8 points to 220 basis points to 36%.
The decline was primarily attributable to the impact of Kelsen and Plum.
The combination of purchase accounting inventory step-up for Kelsen and the Plum recall had a negative impact of 1 full point.
The ongoing impact on gross margin from the addition of the lower-margin Kelsen and Plum businesses is about 40 basis points.
The balance of the margin reduction was largely due to negative mix.
The inflation rate and cost of goods sold was about 3% for the quarter entirely offset by productivity savings.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 1.8 points to 35.2%.
Of the decline 1.2 points came from the base business and 60 basis points was the impact of acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions the decline in gross margin was primarily due to higher promotional spending increased supply chain cost and cost inflation partly offset by productivity improvements and higher selling prices.
Our margin performance was below our expectations reflecting the lowering than projected sales lifts from promotional spending and increased supply chain cost.
In North America cold weather was a key cost driver as it disrupted the distribution and warehousing network as well as impacting our plant performance.
The rate increase in cost of goods sold was approximately 4% in the quarter including about 2 points from inflation and the balance from higher supply chain costs.
This increase was partly offset by productivity savings.
Looking ahead inflation and cost of goods sold for the year continues to be estimated as 3% to 4%.
Marketing and selling expenses for the quarter decreased $28 million to $217 million.
The decrease was primarily due to lower A&amp;C expenses and the negative impact of currency.
Excluding acquisitions A&amp;C for the quarter fell 19% and was down 5% year-to-date while total marketing trade setting increased for both periods.
Administrative expenses decreased $30 million to $134 million primarily due to lower incentive compensation costs lower pension and healthcare expenses and cost savings from recent restructuring initiatives partly offset by the impact of acquisitions which ended approximately $6 million.
Now let's look at below the line items.
For the quarter net interest expense decreased $1 million to $30 million.
The adjusted tax rate was 30.7% a 4% increase versus the prior year.
The prior year benefitted from lower taxes on foreign earnings and the favorable settlement of certain state tax matters.
Reflecting the higher tax rate adjusted earnings from continuing operations increased 7% to $195 million.
Third quarter segment sales results and organic growth rates are shown on the next slide.
Our U.S.
Simple Meals segment delivered $672 million in sales including a $24 million contribution from the acquisition of Plum Organics.
U.S.
Simple Meals organic sales increased by 3%.
Within this segment U.S.
Soup sales were comparable to a strong prior year quarter that saw a soup sales increase by 14%.
Consumer takeaway in measured channels was down 2% in the quarter.
We ended the quarter with inventory levels higher than last year due to the late holiday timing.
Excluding the impact of the Plum acquisition U.S.
sauce organic sales increased by 11%.
The increase was driven by gains in Prego pasta sauce which benefited from the introduction of Prego white sauces Campbell’s dinner sauces and Pace Mexican sauces.
Our Global Baking and Snacking segment delivered $564 million in sales including a $70 million contribution from Kelsen.
Organic sales were comparable to the prior year with growth in Arnott’s offset by declines Pepperidge Farm.
Sales gains in Arnott’s were driven by strong growth in Indonesia partly offset by declines in Australia from Savory and sweet varieties.
The sales decline in Pepperidge Farm reflected declines in frozen products and snacks partly offset by growth in fresh bakery.
Within Snacks declines in adult cracker varieties and Pepperidge Farm cookies were partly offset by increases in Goldfish snack crackers.
Our Bolthouse and Food Service segment posted $358 million in sales an increase of 4%.
Sales rose 6% of Bolthouse Farms driven by double-digit gains in premium refrigerated beverages and salad dressings.
Organic sales in North America food service increased compared to the prior year.
U.S.
Beverage sales declined by 4% to $190 million.
The decrease in sales was driven by declines in V8 V-Fusion and V8 Splash beverages partly offset by volume gains in V8 Vegetable Juice.
While sales of V8 V-Fusion declined our + Energy product has achieved significant growth.
International Simple Meals and Beverages delivered $186 million in sales for the quarter.
Organic sales decreased by 7%.
Sales declined in Latin America the Asia Pacific region and Canada.
The sales decline in Latin America was primarily due to lower volumes and lower selling prices associated with the implementation of the new business model in Mexico.
Sales in the Asia Pacific region decreased due to declines in Australia and Japan partly offset by gains in Malaysia.
Sales in Canada decreased on declines in beverages partly offset by gains in both snacks and soup.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals increased 12% to $175 million operating earnings increased primarily due to lower marketing and administrative expenses partly offset by a lower gross margin percentage.
Operating earnings for Global Baking and Snacking decreased 7% to $68 million primarily due to Kelsen Group’s off season operating results.
Excluding Kelsen operating earnings decreased slightly as lower earnings in Arnott's and the unfavorable impact of currency were partially offset by earnings growth in Pepperidge Farm.
Operating earnings for U.S.
beverages decreased by 12% to $29 million.
The decrease in operating earnings was primarily driven by cost inflation increased supply chain costs and higher marketing expenses partly offset by lower administrative expenses and productivity improvement.
In the International Simple Meals and Beverages operating earnings were $27 million a decline of 4%.
The decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to lower volumes partly offset by lower administrative and selling expenses.
Operating earnings within Bolthouse and Foodservice declined by 15% to $23 million the decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to cost inflation and increased promotional spending and advertising in Bolthouse Farms [partly offset] by higher volumes and lower administrative expenses.
On the next slide you can see U.S.
soup sales were comparable to the prior year quarter sales in condensed soups decreased 3% with sales declines in eating varieties partly offset by gains in cooking soups.
Lower volumes were partly offset by higher selling prices net of higher promotional spending.
Ready-to-serve soup sales declined 1% with declines in both canned and microwavable varieties.
Broth had a strong quarter as sales increased 14% driven by double digit volumes gains in aseptic varieties.
U.S.
soup sales for the first nine months decreased to 1%.
The decrease reflects a 4% decline in ready-to-serve soups and a 2% decline in condensed soups partly offset by an 11% increased in Broth.
Let’s take a look at U.S.
wet soups category performance in the past 52 weeks and our share performance as measured by IRI.
For the period ending April 27 2014 the category as a whole declined 0.6% [our] sales in measured channels declined 1.1% with weakness in condensed and ready-to-serve soups partly offset by strength in Broth.
Campbell had nearly a 60% market share a decrease of 30 basis points in the period.
All other branded players collectively had a share of 28% with private label at 13%.
For the nine months net sales from continuing operations were $6 416 million up 1% from the prior year.
These sales results include a 4-point contribution from acquisitions which consist of Plum Organics; Kelsen acquired on August 8; and one additional week of results from Bolthouse Farms which closed one week into the first quarter a year ago.
Excluding acquisitions and the negative impact of currency organic net sales were comparable to the prior year.
Gains in Bolthouse and Foodservice U.S.
Simple Meals and the Global Baking and Snacking segments were offset by declines in U.S.
Beverages and in International Simple Meals and Beverages.
Adjusted EBIT of $1 022 million was comparable to the prior year as lower administrative expenses were offset by lower gross margin percentage.
Adjusted earnings per share of $2.04 were comparable to a year ago.
For the first nine months sales grew 1% with organic sales comparable to the prior year as the impact of higher selling prices was fully offset by higher promotional spending.
Acquisitions added 4 points while currency subtracted 2 points.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 1.8 points to 35.6%.
The decline in gross margin was primarily attributable to cost inflation higher promotional spend increased supply chain costs and the impact of acquisitions including the November 2013 Plum Organics recall partly offset by productivity improvements and higher selling prices.
The increase in cost of goods sold was approximately 4% for the first nine months partly offset by productivity savings of 3%.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased 1% to $746 million.
The decrease was primarily due to lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses the impact of currency and lower marketing overhead expenses partly offset by the addition of acquisitions.
Administrative expenses decreased $58 million to $424 million primarily due to lower incentive compensation costs lower pension and healthcare expenses and cost savings from recent restructuring initiatives partly offset by the impact of acquisitions which added approximately $16 million.
For the first nine months net interest expense decreased $6 million to $89 million.
The decrease was primarily due to lower interest rates on our debt portfolio.
We expect to finish the year with net interest costs of about $120 million.
The adjusted tax rate for the first nine months was 31.3% a 50 basis point increase versus the prior year.
The prior year benefited from the favorable settlement of certain state tax matters.
We continue to expect a tax rate for fiscal 2014 of 31% to 32%.
Adjusted earnings from continuing operations decreased 1% to $645 million.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.04 were comparable to the prior year.
Cash flow from operations was $763 million compared with $864 million in the prior year.
The decline was primarily due to lower cash earnings and the taxes paid on the divestiture of the European Simple Meals business partly offset by lower working capital requirements.
Capital expenditures of $198 million decreased from $205 million a year ago.
We are still expecting capital expenditures for the year to be approximately $350 million.
Net debt decreased by $113 million to $3 687 million.
We have revised our full year guidance for fiscal 2014.
We now expect that sales from continuing operations will grow approximately 3% compared with the previous range of 4% to 5% reflecting the recent shortfall in sales growth from U.S.
Soup and Pepperidge Farm.
Full year growth in adjusted EBIT is expected to be at the low end of the previously forecast range of 4% to 6%.
And adjusted EPS for the full year is expected to be at the low end of the previously announced guidance of 2% to 4%.
Several items are worth highlighting.
Fiscal 2014 comprises 53 weeks one additional week compared to the prior year.
We estimate the extra week will benefit sales growth by about 2% EBIT growth by approximately 3% and EPS by approximately $0.08.
Going the other direction we expect currency translation will have a 2% negative impact on sales EBIT and EPS.
Next for the full year we expect incentive compensation cost will be below target levels by approximately $40 million or $0.08 per share.
As you might imagine this will be a headwind next year along with the 53rd week.
Two other items we’ve talked about are the contribution to sales from acquisitions which we continue to project at about $300 million.
And in connection with the new business model in Mexico reported sales and costs of products sold are now expected to be reduced by approximately $30 million.
Thank you.
Now I’ll turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Anthony.
At this time Campbell will conduct a Q&amp;A session.
We’d like to request that our callers limit themselves to a single question so we can respond to more analysts.
Operator?   Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Chris.
Hi good morning.
Let me just ask you first I guess Denise in relation to the reduction in revenue growth for the year it sounds like it was driven by Soup and Pepperidge and therefore what I am getting at is is the rush in the guidance due to the base business or is there any change in your contribution from acquisitions that’s occurring as well to bring that revenue guidance down?  Chris to answer your question there is no change in our expectations on the acquisitions.
The reason why we lowered it was because two thirds of it came from the soup business and about one third from Pepperidge Farm.
Okay.
And I guess related to that in this quarter you had an increase in promotion and you didn’t get the response that you expected.
I am just curious is that a comment about the category or a comment about the consumer in terms of them not --somewhat not responding to the increase in promotional spending what do you think happened there I guess is my question?  It’s a great question and I have actually looked at the performance of 36 Simple Meals now over the course of time.
And if you look at the MULO total refrigerated meals are up 3.3% shelf-stable are up 0.7% and frozen are down 0.6%.
So what’s happening is the refrigerated simple meals are experiencing most of the growth but within shelf-stable there are some categories like fresh bread and rolls Italian and Mexican sauces which are positive and soup is slightly declining.
And so if you look at it over the last year the total Simple Meals category is sluggish up 1.2% that is still positive so we feel like we are tracking right with the pack here it’s just that the environment is tough.
Okay thank you for the time.
Thank you Chris.
Next question please? Our next question comes from line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Denise I guess we weren’t modeling very much growth in soup in the quarter merely because the comp was so hard.
It was a 14% comp but it look like your business plans really did depend on a lot of volume growth on top of what last year was a lot of volume growth.
So what made you think that in this consumer environment and then in a tight inventory environment at retail were the plans that robust that that was possible I guess? We got off to a to a slow start in the first quarter and we deployed extra promotional activity into the third quarter beyond what we had last year.
And in addition we introduced eight new SKUs of soup in January which was something we don’t usually do but we felt that they were ready and we could use the sales volume to bring us out of the first quarter slump.
Quite frankly it was -- we were happy that we at least held our own versus the 14% and over a two-year period we were up high-single digit in soup except that it just wasn’t enough to meet the expectations that we needed to bring the quarter end and bring our full year in on our guidance.
So that's the best explanation.
Anthony you want to add..? Yes.
I would just add one point that I think is important is on soup we held our promotional price points and what we did is we expanded to a broader customer base so we went to customers this year that we didn't promote with in the third quarter last year which gave us some confidence that we thought would get a volume lift.
So more customers got the deals I got it.
Any implications for pricing for next year I know that some of your commodities are up have you announced any pricing for soup? No we haven't announced any pricing for soup.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everybody.
Hi Eric.
Good morning.
I guess Denise I want to focus in on the Global Snacking and Baking area.
I looked back and I had to go back to I think 2009 to see a quarterly profit that was this week in between Arnott's and Pepperidge.
I know that both of those businesses especially on the cracker side at Pepperidge and the core Arnott's business are very very profitable.
So I'm really worried that those businesses are starting to roll over at the same time that you have continued to have challenges in other areas.
I mean why should not we be particularly concerned of what do you see is the problem for Pepperidge and how can we have faith that that business isn’t going to be drag versus competition but maybe better or stronger competition in coming quarters? First let me address Pepperidge Farm.
In Pepperidge Farm we had positive profits and the profits are actually pretty robust.
The two portions of the business that had sales decline were adult savory crackers and frozen which are actually a small portion of the business.
In addition the Goldfish we had a price increase on Goldfish last year and we've found that given the competitive environment we had to promote that product more in the third quarter.
We did see with improving as the quarter went on.
So we do believe that Pepperidge Farm still a great business and really good shape.
When it comes to Arnott's we've been dealing with a very tough retailer environment in Australia and we have had to invest in that business to stabilize it and return advertising to our core brands like Tim Tam Shapes and real stock.
So we have had cost that hits in Australia we recognize that.
And but we believe that getting that business back to stability is important it’s an important business for us.
These are great brands and they have great expansion possibilities as demonstrated by our double-digit growth in Indonesia.
So I hope that answers your question.
Okay.
Well I will pass it on.
Thank you.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Denise or Anthony you're in obviously in the midst of integrating a number of acquisitions rate now but given that the M&amp;A environment seems to be heating up a bit.
Just want to revisit where you see yourself in this process of portfolio transformation? How you’d assess the landscape right now and how you would balance that with addressing some of the base business issues and to the base business trends having been below your expectations year-to-date reinforce the urgency of needing to evolve the portfolio faster? Well we’ve always held ourselves to a standard since the very beginning of strengthening our core business while we expand into faster growing spaces.
And we will continue to do both of those.
We have been making plans and investments in our core business and these three acquisitions that we made have been very very good for our portfolio and yes we will continue to look for other acquisitions with smart external development that make good strategic sense.
Okay.
Thank you Denise.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Your line is open.
Great thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Anthony I just want to make sure I’ve heard something right it’s a clarification on the admin expense line I think you just quantified that incentive compensation for the full year was down about $0.08 or $40 million first off did I get that right? Yes.
What I said is our incentive compensation relative to targeted levels is $0.08 favorable.
That’s what I meant but that was much better said so thank you.
And then the big question then is on 2015 you’re saying that got to get restored and so that something like a three percentage point headwind and then from the 53rd week itself there is another I think like two percentage point headwind.
So kind of out of the gate with no other information there is sort of a 5 percentage point headwind against [F ‘15] numbers that we can state is there today is that fair and accurate?  Well actually it’s 1 point worse than you stated it’s EBIT at 3 point for each of them.
Okay.
Because as I said 53rd week is 2 points at sales and 3 points at EBIT.
I mean going the other way we’ve got a couple of things so we are wrapping the Plum Organics to recall and we’re wrapping a very disruptive winter.
We know we have some challenges next year.
We’re working through our plans now in terms of operating plans for next year to see where we come at.
Okay thank you for that.
It seems the implications are clear on that issue.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Next question please?  Our next question comes from the line of Ken Goldman with JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi can you hear me?  Yes hi Ken.
Okay.
Hi guys.
One really quick one then my question first how much does 4Q guidance incorporate an expectation of an inventory draw down? And then my longer question can you update us on your expectations for the California drought for fiscal ‘15? I know you won’t give specific guidance there but any directional help or thoughts on the situation given how poor it is right might useful.
Thank you.
I can take the first inventory part of that.
We did end the quarter about $25 million up versus a year ago on soup inventories.
It’s hard to predict exactly what is going to come out as we launch into next year but our forecast for the fourth quarter does assume the majority of that inventory comes out.
Okay.
And regarding the drought we have held our own pretty much during this drought.
Our Bolthouse Farms carrot business resides in fields with aquifers and they have been growing also in Northern California and some other regions to take some of the pressure off.
So they have been doing well despite the situation.
We are expecting some increases in tomato prices as a result of the drought but that is been incorporated in our planning.
Thank you.
Next question please? Our next question comes from the line of David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
If you were to separate your business drivers and controllables like your marketing and innovation and the factors outside your control in fiscal ‘14 like the consumer environment whether disruption and even factors like the competition you are seeing in healthy snacking do you see the net impact of the uncontrollables in fiscal ‘14 as perhaps unusual as a way -- in a way that creates easy or difficult comparison as we think about fiscal ‘15? The only thing that I can say is that we were -- the sales were below our expectation by about a percentage point.
Some of that was controllable and that the promotions didn’t get the lift that we wanted.
But then you could argue that one of the reasons why we didn’t get the lifts because of a harsher environment and a more cautious consumer.
So I am not sure how to accurately piece that out.
Yes.
I think there is a couple of things to point out; obviously one we wrapping the Plum issue so that obviously is a non-controllable that will go away; we expect improved performance in Pepperidge Farm.
Denise mentioned we got a two parts of that business that are hurting this year which are small portion that’s adult savory cracker business and the frozen business.
And I think more fundamentally and we’ve talked about the need to improve our performance in U.S.
Beverages and in Arnott’s which have been a drag on the portfolio of this year and we need to turn that around.
Thank you very much.
Next question? Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Alexia.
Hi.
There was some data around [share trends] in U.S.
soup suggesting that over the last year you have been losing out? Who is to losing share to is it your chief competitor or is it other niche brand that’s clearly not private label? And what do you think you might need to do differently to address that? Thank you.
There has been if you look at there has been some share gains by some of the niche brands.
And I think if you look as to why that is there are some pockets of growth within the category around things like organic and health and wellness attributes.
And obviously we're looking at those things.
We've got a pretty robust plan for soup for next year and some exciting things going on.
And we plan to share that more fully with you at our Investor Day in July.
When you look at share of Simple Meals we definitely are holding our own against other peers in the [south] or at least -- so even though Simple Meals is only up slightly we have maintained our share of that.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
Next question? Our next question comes from the line of Erin Lash with Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Thank you for taking my question.
You're welcome.
I wanted some additional detail I’m hoping you could give some additional details regarding the new products that you’ve been bringing to market and how those are either resonating relative to plan and what potentially you can do differently if you can address that? I know this is something you are going to talk about at the Analyst Day but any additional insight you might have would be helpful.
Okay.
I think that we’ve had some really good performance from our new dinner sauce products.
We started building a new platform which was completely disruptive with our first execution of Skillet Sauces last year we added new Slow Cooker Sauces to that and then next year we're adding new Oven Sauces.
And we've been successful in getting a destination set in the stores to give the consumer a specific place to shop for these sauces.
I think one of the reasons why they're doing well is because obviously they're consumed with meat and fresh food and so refining a lot of home preparation these days.
So those have done very well.
Goldfish Puffs have done really well and are meeting our expectations.
Not so well are the where the Pepperidge Farm Cracker Chips and Jingos which is one of the things that we're cycling in that business this year but we have reformulated the cracker chips and have better expectations for those going forward.
What about within soups specifically?  In soups yes most of the innovation has been sustaining innovation; the new Plum inspired Chunky soups are doing really well the broth is doing phenomenal where we've moved from just chicken beef and vegetable into more flavor flavorful broths with recipes to go along with that.
So and then the new eight SKUs that we introduced in January or performing as expected.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
You're welcome.
Next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
Thanks for taking the question.
Denise a high level you’re reallocating money into trade promo auto marketing you’re not alone; the entire industry has been moving this way over the last few years.
And as we do this we just see promotional efficacy continue to step lower and lower and lower.
We’re not really dealing with expandable consumption categories here.
So at what point do we say enough is enough; quit trying to throw money at this? And is there a path on the horizon to actually get this money back out? It’s a lot easier to pour money into trade; it’s a lot harder to retract it once retailers have their hands on it.
Yes.
We are continuing to work with all of the levers of drivers of demand which vary by business.
And we are working as well with customers for more trade promotion effectiveness.
And our business leaders need to be flexible to make course corrections along the way both to capitalize on opportunities or meet competition.
And in several of these categories we’ve seen a ramp up of competition.
What we’ve tried to do is increase our frequency not go into deep discounting.
Okay.
Going back on a couple more tactical themes Arnott’s; it was my view coming to this year that this should be a year of profit recovery as you implement the automation and your manufacturing network in the market.
Based on results it looks like all those savings are -- in summer being ploughed back into the market.
Is that indeed the case? That’s primarily the case but one point I would add we experienced some delays in achieving those savings so we didn’t get the full amount of savings in the year so that should help us going into next year.
And I think the other thing I would add is we’ve completely changed the team in Australia and they have a new plan that they’re implementing which has caused calling for investment particularly in the power brands and we believe that’s the right thing to do for that business right now.
Makes sense and last one and I will pass it on.
Encouraging to see North America food service volume return to growth I know you brought on some new capacity new technology for you late last year is much of that been deployed yet?  I would say some of it’s been deployed the major driver of the improvement in North America Food Service is actually been our traditional up and down the street food service business.
Got it okay thanks a lot guys I will pass it on.
Okay next question please.
Our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Diane.
Hey I wanted to sort of follow on Eric’s question earlier about the baking just more broadly could you talk a little bit about your viewpoint on snacking? It seems like Pepperidge Farm is one of those brands where you would think it was strong enough to sort of carry a volume lift and yet you continue to see sort of a move away from sort of grain based products due to shifts in your consumer diet so could a little bit more broadly about snacking and sort of carbs versus protein and what you are seeing with the consumer base please? Thank you.
I mean there is no question that within snacking we have seen and I am talking about macro snacking we have seen brands in the [better for you] space gaining traction one of the reasons why we introduced Goldfish puffs in addition to attracting teens and twins into the Goldfish franchise was that we were able to make that product free.
So we are participating in that macro snacking at this point.
I do believe though that our cookie business and our Pepperidge Farm cracker business particularly Goldfish do have a nice loyal consumer base and we will continue to innovate in that space as well.
So our model is to give consumers choices depending upon what they are seeking to buy.
Okay all right thank you.
And our last question will be from Akshay I think.
Yes thanks for taking my question.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Perfect.
So one quick one on the financials just can you update us on your gross margin expectation now? I know you have come in below what you were projecting at the beginning of the year.
Can you help us with the drivers of that? It seems like promotional costs and volumes have come in sort of lower than expected but maybe give us a sense of where the commodity outlook is and if it has changed.
And then more importantly just on Bolthouse you did see 6% growth but my expectation there is that longer term that’s 8% to 10% top line grower and margins should be expanding.
So can you help us just understand the performance this quarter especially at the margin level on Bolthouse that came in well below what I was expecting? Thanks.
So I’ll make a couple of comments on your gross margin more about where we have been then the outlook for next year.
But in terms of this year we expect cost inflation the rate to go up about 3% to 4%; inside of that ingredients packaging and energy inflation running about 2% to 3% and then you need to add a point for the supply chain issues that I’ve mentioned earlier.
If you step back and look at the base business our gross margin declined.
As I said in my comments 60 basis points of that is the impact of the acquisitions and 1 point 2 points is the base business.
You are right promotional variance is a significant factor in that in addition to the inflation that I talked about.
We've increased our promotional spending in our Baking and Snacking business and in U.S.
Soup.
And we've also increased trade promotion in Bolthouse Farms which is one of the reasons you are seeing a lower gross margin or a lower margin in Bolthouse because in addition to the advertising spend to build the brand awareness the competitiveness in that category has intensified of late and then we have increased our trade spending in response.
We don't expect it to be an ongoing issue but it did impact the third quarter both the top-line and the bottom-line for Bolthouse.
And Bolthouse year-to-date is up about 7% and the beverages and salad dressings are up double digits both in sales and also in consumption and the carrots are low single digits.
Perfect.
Thank you You're welcome.
Thanks everybody for participating in our third quarter earnings call and webcast.
If you missed any of the call the replay will be available about 2 hours after our call concludes.
You may call 703-925-2533 for that country code +1.
The replay access code is 1635565.
You have until June 2 2014 at midnight at which point we will move our earnings call to the website investor.campbellsoupcompany.com under News &amp; Events.
Just click on Recent Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at 856-342-3737.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll at 856-342-6081.
This concludes today's program.
We hope to see you at our Investor Day in July.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I'd now like to introduce to your host for today's conference Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kate and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2014 earnings call and webcast for Campbell Soup Company.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Anthony DiSilvestro our Chief Financial Officer; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
I am going to start things of with a few reminders including items impacting comparability and our quarterly earnings days for fiscal 2015.
Denise will follow me with her perspective on the quarter of the year and our plan through fiscal 2015.
Anthony will then discuss our financial results for the quarter and full year finishing with our expectations for fiscal 2015 and after that we will take your questions.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com and on our IR app which is available through Google or Apple.
Please keep in mind that our call is open to members of the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
Today’s presentation includes forward-looking statements which reflects Campbell’s current expectations about future plans and performance.
These forward-looking statements rely on a number of assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to inherent risks.
Please refer to slide three in the presentation or to Campbell’s most recent 10-K and SEC filings for a list of factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
Now I would like to remind you about items impacting comparability.
As we said in this morning’s news release in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 we recorded $21 million of pre-tax restructuring charges and restructuring related costs to improve our supply chain efficiency in Australia to reduce overhead across the organization and for previously announced initiatives.
We also recorded an additional 4 million pre-tax settlement charge associated with the US pension plan.
Last year in the fourth quarter we recorded $30 million of pre-tax restructuring charges and restructuring related costs to improve our US supply chain and structure to expand assets to manufacturing and distribution capabilities in Mexico to improve the Pepperidge Farm supply chain and reduce overhead in North America.
Our comparisons in fiscal 2014 with fiscal 2013 to exclude previously announced items as shown on slide four.
So now let me remind you that we will use non-GAAP measures to enhance our explanations.
We’ve provided a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure as appendix to the slides to accompany our presentation.
Because the guidance for fiscal 2015 is on a 52 week versus 52 weeks we show the estimated impact of the extra week in fiscal 2014 on sales and earnings as well.
These slides along with our earnings release and selected quarterly and annual financials also can be found on our website which is available online or on your mobile device with the Campbell IR app.
Last please mark your calendars for our planned fiscal 2015 earnings dates shown on slide six.
Like this quarter the days are a little later than usual due to the 53<sup>rd</sup> week which you will be hearing a lot on this call.
November 25 is when we plan to report first quarter the next three earnings dates are February 25 of 2015 May 22 of 2015 and September 4 of 2015.
With that let me turn the call over to Denise.
Thank you Jennifer and good morning to everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
At our investor day in July I told you that I remain confident that our strategy to reshape Campbell by strengthening our core business and expanding in to faster growing spaces is the right course for our company and I also know that it will take more time than we originally anticipated to achieve our long-term growth targets.
Our industry is now in a period of profound change and challenge and there has been a meaningful decline in the performance of the packaged food sector.
Sources like the economic environment the transformation of consumers’ food preferences with regard to health and wellness and their demand for greater transparency the powerful social and demographic changes and the rise of e-commerce are all driving significant changes in consumer behavior with respect to food.
With this as background today I will focus most of my remarks on our performance for full year 2014 and our expectations for fiscal 2015.
But first I will briefly comment on our fourth quarter results.
Our fourth quarter results benefited from the extra week in the fiscal year which was a significant driver in the quarter as we delivered 7% sales growth and double digit growth in adjusted EBIT and EPS.
Organic sales in the quarter decreased 2% as our core business continued to under perform in a challenging consumer environment.
Turning to our full year results in 2014 including the 53 week and the benefit of acquisitions Campbell delivered growth in both sales and adjusted earnings.
We were encouraged by the performance of the businesses we acquired in the last two fiscal years as part of our strategy to reshape Campbell’s growth trajectory but we were not satisfied with the performance of our core business and our organic sales results for the year reflected the extremely difficult market conditions which were impacting the food business.
Consistent with our most recent guidance sales from continuing operations increased 3% to nearly $8.3 billion benefiting from acquisitions and an extra week in the fiscal year.
Organic sales declined 1%.
Adjusted earnings before interests and taxes from continuing operations grew 4% to nearly $1.3 billion and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations 2% to $2.53.
In US Simple Meals we delivered growth in sauces with higher sales of Prego pasta sauces and Campbell’s dinner sauces.
But after growing 5% in fiscal 2013 sales declined in US soup as organic growth in Swanson broth which increased 8% was more than offset by declines in ready-to-serve and condense soups amid softer consumption.
In Global Baking and Snacking the acquisition of Kelsen Group contributed a $193 million in sales.
We had modest growth in Pepperidge Farm including continued gains in our Goldfish franchise and fresh bakery.
We had solid growth in Indonesia.
As we expected sales declined in our business in Australia.
As we outlined at our investor day in July we have initiated turnaround plans to reinvigorate both our Australian business and your US beverages business which also declined for the year.
Overall we are embracing change and continuing to diversify our portfolio.
We are building a presence in packaged fresh and other faster growing spaces in strategically important geographies outside of our developed markets and in channels that will make our products available everywhere consumer shops.
In fiscal 2014 we achieved some key milestones in the execution of these strategies.
We completed our acquisition of Kelsen Group which is given us a valuable growth platform with 40% of its sales of baked snacks in China and Hong Kong.
We invested in our first marketing programs to build the Bolthouse Farms brand and expanded the distribution of Bolthouse products driving solid sales growth and share gains of super-premium beverages in measured channels.
Internationally we divested our slow-growing European simple meals business to focus on growth opportunities in Asia and Latin America and expanded our sweet biscuit business in Indonesia a key developing market.
In January we transitioned to a new US network of distributors for our single-serve beverages.
Overtime we expect this network to drive immediate consumption growth for both our V8 and Bolthouse Farms brands.
We increased our digital and e-commerce capabilities to enhance our connection with consumers who are engaging with brands in new ways.
We continue to drive consumer focused innovation with new products equaling 11% of lists sales on a rolling three basis.
Across our portfolio we reduced overhead costs which is critical to funding our growth.
Finally we reflected on our company’s purpose which we have expressed in seven words real food that matters for life’s moments.
This will be the compass that guards our decision as we aspire to become a $10 billion company within the next five years.
It affirms our connections to the core values that have inspired trust in Campbell in the past and it bridges us to the priorities of new generations.
Now that 2014 is behind us I want to give you a brief overview of our plans for fiscal 2015.
We’ll take further actions to drive growth in our important US soup portfolio and improve category performance.
To do this we will continue to elevate quality increase our brand building and drive more innovation including our first Campbell’s organic soups.
We intend to expand in the Premium Soup segment strengthen ready-to-serve soups and grow our number one position in condense soups and broths.
We will drive growth in Pepperidge Farm by executing against all the drivers of demand including increased innovation particularly in the back half of the year.
We will revitalize our shelf-stable US beverage business by leveraging innovation and the powerful equities of the V8 brand in vegetable nutrition to capitalize on the juicing trend with affordable juicing.
We will continue to stabilize our Australian business and rejuvenate sales of Arnott’s biscuits in that key market.
In faster growing spaces our acquisitions of Bolthouse Farms Plum and Kelsen have diversified our nearly $8.3 billion portfolio as we continue to our shift centre of gravity.
We expect all three of these businesses to grow the top line as we expand distribution.
To continue to drive our expansion into faster growing spaces we will focus on four key platforms under our long-term strategy.
Number one accelerating break-through innovation including continued expansion in Campbell’s dinner sauces and plans this year to extend the V8 brand to adult on-the-go nutrition protein bars and shakes.
Across our portfolio will on more than 200 new products as we continue to respond to the evolving tastes and needs of consumers.
Number two becoming a leader in packaged fresh foods a growing $18.6 billion category in which Bolthouse Farms has given us a solid foundation and is now expanding with the launch of Bolthouse Farms Kids an innovation portfolio of healthy snacks and beverages for children.
Number three expanding and developing markets in Asia and Latin America building on our footholds in China Indonesia Malaysia and Mexico; and finally increasing the availability of all of our products in all channels including immediate consumption channels and e-commerce.
We will fund our growth by aggressively managing our cost and margin.
Furthermore will become a high-performance company as we continue to drive agile decision-making own our results and to track and retain world-class talent to further diversified our team.
In fiscal 2015 we expect to deliver growth of 1% to 2% of sales and between 0% to 2%.
Adjusted EBIT and adjusted EPS from continuing operations on a 52-week basis.
This guidance reflects the impact of some significant headwinds that will affect year-over-year comparisons.
Importantly while we will continue to invest in our platforms for long-term growth we are prepared to take additional actions if these headwinds accelerate.
It is important to note that our growth in fiscal 2015 won’t be evenly distributed across quarters.
Our first quarter comparison will be favorable because in fiscal 2014 we experienced retailer inventory movements and later Thanksgiving holiday timing that pushed sales in the second quarter.
We expect a larger amount of holiday sales this year to shift back to the first quarter and as a result looking at our business performance on a first half basis versus a quarterly basis will be more meaningful.
We continue to believe that our long-term growth targets 3% to 4% in organic sales 4% to 6% in EBIT and 5% to 7% in EPS are achievable.
However we recognize as we said at our investor day that further portfolio reconfiguration including smart external development may be required to deliver and sustain growth at this level.
We have meaningfully change the composition of our portfolio and are following through our commitment to diversify our business in to faster growing spaces.
But we know it will take some time to realize with full promise of our new platforms and we know that we stand at a critical juncture.
In closing I believe it is essential to balance optimism with realism.
Consumers are changing in profound ways.
At Campbell we’re putting the consumer first and adapting quickly to the new normal of our world.
While remaining true to our core beliefs we have opened our minds to new ways of thinking about our business.
To win in the long-term food companies will have to embrace change and lead change and we’re doing this at Campbell.
I look forward to answering your questions in a few minutes and I will now turn the call over to Anthony DiSilvestro.
Good morning and thanks Denise.
I will walk through our fourth quarter results and segment highlights followed by look a at our fiscal year results.
As Jennifer indicated both our fourth quarter and fiscal year results included extra week compared to the prior year.
We’ll wrap up with a look at our fiscal 2015 guidance which will be presented on a 52 to 52-week basis.
As usual my discussion of results will exclude items impacting comparability which are detailed in our non-GAAP reconciliations.
For the fourth quarter we reported net sales from continuing operations of 1.852 billion an increase of 7% versus the year ago quarter.
These sales results include a seven-point benefit from the 53<sup>rd</sup> week and a three-point contribution from our Kelsen and Plum acquisitions.
Excluding the 53<sup>rd</sup> week acquisitions and a negative impact of currency organic net sales decreased by 2% driven by declines in our US Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking segment probably offset by gains in Bolthouse and Foodservice.
Adjusted EBIT increase 25% to 259 million the increase was primarily due to lower administrative expenses and the benefit of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week probably offset by a lower gross margin percentage.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.49 a 14% increase versus the prior year reflecting an EBIT growth probably offset by a higher effective tax rate.
The next slide shows a composition of our sales performance.
As you can see there was no impact from volume mix and rising.
The organic sales decrease of two points reflects increased promotional spending primarily related to higher rates of spending to remain competitive in our Global Baking and Snacking segment.
Unfavorable currency had a one-point impact due to the Australian and Canadian dollars weakening against the US dollar.
The acquisition of Kelsen and seven additional weeks of Plum added three points.
The benefit of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week added seven points to sales growth.
Our adjusted growth margin percentage declined by 240 basis points to 34.3%.
Of the decline 210 basis points came from the base business and 30 basis points was the impact of acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions the decline in gross margin was primarily due to increased supply chain costs cost inflation and higher promotional spending probably offset by productivity improvement.
To give this some context the fourth quarter is a relatively small quarter for us and the increase in supply chain costs negatively impacted gross margins by about two points.
This included the impact of fixed cost absorption compared to last year and mark-to-market losses on open commodity contracts.
Importantly going forward we estimate that our gross margin percentage for the full-year of 2015 will be comparable to this year.
Marketing and selling expenses for the quarter decreased by $2 million to 189 million.
The decrease was primarily due to lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses lower selling expenses and the impact of currency probably offset by the impact of acquisitions.
[A&amp;C] for the quarter and the year fell 2% while total marketing support including trade spending rose for both period.
Administrative expenses decreased 46 million to 149 million primarily due to lower incentive composition costs and cost savings from recent restructuring initiatives.
Not let’s look at below the line items; for the quarter net interest expense of 30 million was comparable to the prior year quarter as a lower debt balance and lower interest rates were offset by the impact of the additional week.
The adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 33.2% an increase of 8.5 points versus the prior year.
The 2013 rate was significantly lower benefiting from lower taxes and [forward] earnings.
Reflecting the impact of the higher tax rate both adjusted earnings and earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 14%.
Fourth quarter segment sales results and the organic growth rates are shown on the next slide.
The Global Baking and Snacking segment our largest segment by sales in the quarter delivered 628 million in sales including a 32 million contribution from Kelsen.
Organic sales declined 2% versus the prior year we declines at Pepperidge Farm and Arnott’s.
The sales decline at Pepperidge Farm was driven by increased promotional spending probably offset by volume gains.
Sales of cookies and crackers were comparable to prior year gains in Goldfish snack crackers offset by declines in Pepperidge Farm adult cracker varieties.
Sales of frozen and other products declined while sales of fresh bakery products increased driven by volume gains in breads and rolls.
The sales decrease at Arnott’s was due to weakness in Australia primarily in savory and sweet varieties probably offset by continued strong sales growth in Indonesia.
Our US Simple Meals segment delivered 518 million in sales including 32 million of sales from Plum.
Organic sales decreased 5% versus the prior year within this segment; US soup organic sales decreased 10% including seven point declines due to movement in retailer inventories.
As you may recall we ended the third quarter with inventory levels higher than the prior year due to the later timing of the Easter holiday.
As we ended fiscal 2014 retailer inventory levels were comparable to year ago.
Our consumer takeaway of soup and measured channels was down 3% in the quarter.
Organic sales of other simple meals increased by 2% driven by gains in Campbell’s dinner sauces and Prego pasta sauces.
Our Bolthouse Farms and Foodservice segment posted 334 million in sales.
It was the best performing segment as organic sales increased 4%.
Double-digit growth in Bolthouse Farms premium refrigerated beverages and salad dressings was probably offset by decreases in North America foodservice.
International simple meals and beverages delivered 188 million in sales.
Organic sales were comparable to the prior year as declines in Latin America and Asia Pacific regions were probably offset by gains in Canada.
US beverages delivered sales of 184 million organic sales decreased 1% due to declines in V8 V-Fusion Crowley offset by gains in V8 Splash beverages and V8 vegetable juice.
Excluding the sales decline associated with the continuing transition to our new immediate consumption [round] to market organic sales would have been up modestly in the quarter.
Operating earning’s for US simple meals increased 4% to 114 million.
The improvement was primarily due to the 53<sup>rd</sup> week and lower administrative and marketing expenses probably offset by the decline in US soup sales and a lower gross margin percentage.
Operating earnings for global baking and snacking increased 17% to 98 million primarily driven by lower administrative expenses in the extra week probably offset by a lower gross margin percentage.
The increase reflected earnings growth in Pepperidge Farm and the addition of Kelsen Group’s operating results.
Earnings for Arnott’s were comparable to the prior year quarter.
Operating earnings for US beverages more than doubled to 43 million.
The gain was primarily driven by lower administrative selling and marketing expenses and the benefit of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
Operating earnings within [Bolthouse] and Kelsen foodservice gained 16% to 29 million.
The increase was primarily due to lower administrative expenses and the benefit of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week probably offset by a lower gross margin percentage and higher marketing expenses as we continue to support the Bolthouse Farms brand.
In International simple meals and beverages operating earnings totaled 21 million an increase of 50% primarily due to a higher gross margin percentage driven by productivity improvement and the benefit of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
Our full-year results as shown on this chart were consistent with our most recent guidance for sales EBIT and EPS.
For the year net sales were up 3% while organic net sales decreased 1%.
Declines in US beverages and International simple meals and beverages were probably offset by gains in the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment.
Adjusted EBIT increased 4% on lower administrative expenses a three point benefit from the 53<sup>rd</sup> week and lower marketing expenses probably offset by a lower gross margin percentage and the organic sales decline.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 2% to $2.53 including a $0.08 benefit from the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
For this fiscal year sales grew 3% driven by a three-point contribution from acquisitions and the two point benefit from the 53<sup>rd</sup> week minus one point each from lower organic sales and unfavorable currency translation.
Organic sales decreased 1% as the impact of high promotional spending was probably offset by higher selling prices.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage declined by 190 basis points to 35.4%.
The decline in gross margin was primarily attributable to cost inflation higher promotional spend increased supply chain cost and unfavorable impact of acquisitions probably offset by productivity improvement and higher selling prices.
The rate increase in cost of goods sold was approximately 4% for the year in line with our estimates probably offset by productivity savings of 3%.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased 1% for 12 million the change was primarily due to lower advertising and consumer promotion expenses the impact of currency lower marketing overhead expenses and lower selling expenses probably offset by the impact of acquisitions.
Administrative expenses decreased 15% or 104 million primarily due to lower incentive compensation costs cost savings from restructuring initiatives and lower pension cost probably offset by the impact of acquisitions.
For this fiscal year net interest expense decreased 5% or 6 million primarily due to lower average interest rates on our debt portfolio.
That adjusted tax rate for this fiscal year was 31.7% a 1.9 point increase versus the prior year which benefited from lower taxes on foreign earnings and a favorable settlement of certain US state tax matters.
Adjusted earnings and earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 2%.
I’ll briefly comment on full-year segment results.
In the US Simple Meals segment organic sales were comparable to a strong prior year which saw sales grow 5%.
Within this segment US soup organic sales decreased 2% while sales of other simple meals increased by 4% primarily due to growth in Prego pasta sauces and Campbell’s dinner sauces.
Our Global Baking and Snacking segment includes a 193 million contribution from Kelsen.
Organic sales were comparable to the prior year as sales growth in Indonesia and Pepperidge Farm driven by Goldfish were offset by declines in Arnott’s in Australia.
Our Bolthouse and Foodservice segment had organic sales growth of 2% with double-digit gains in Bolthouse Farms premium refrigerated beverages and salad dressings probably offset by declines in North America food service.
Organic sales for International simple meals and beverages decreased by 3% with declines in Latin America Canada and the Asia-Pacific region.
US beverage organic sales decreased 4% due to sales declines in our V8 V-Fusion multi-served beverages as well as weakness in our single-serve products as we continue the transition to our new distribution networks for the immediate consumption channel.
Commenting on full-year segment earnings US simple meals operating earnings decreased 2% to 714 million as a lower gross margin percentage and expenses related to the number 2013 Plum recall were probably offset by lower administrative expenses low marketing expenses and a benefit of the extra week.
Global baking and snacking earnings gained 5% to 332 million.
The increase was primarily driven by lower administrative expenses the acquisition of Kelsen low marketing expenses and the benefit of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week probably offset by a lower gross margin percentage and unfavorable impact of currency.
The increase reflected growth in Pepperidge Farm and Kelsen Group’s operating results probably offset by lower earnings in Arnott’s.
US beverages operating earnings increased 6% to 127 million primarily driven by lower administrative and marketing expenses probably offset by a lower gross margin percentage and low volumes.
Bolthouse and Foodservice operating earnings increased 1% primarily due to lower administrative expenses International simple meals and beverages operating earnings decreased 2% to 106 millions in this fiscal year.
The decrease was primarily driven by volume declines and the unfavorable impact of currency probably offset by lower administrative expenses a higher gross margin percentage and lower selling expenses.
On the next slide you can see the sales performance of US soups excluding the estimated impact of the 53<sup>rd</sup> week.
Sales declined 2% compared to the prior year in which soup sales rose 5%.
Consumer takeaway measured channels also declined by 2% as soup inventory levels at retailers at year-end were comparable with 2013.
For the year sales for condensed soups decreased 3% driven primarily by declines in eating varieties.
Ready-to-serve soup sales declined 6% with lower sales across the RTS portfolio.
Broth had a very strong year with sales increasing by 8% driven by strong marketing programs innovations and distribution gains.
Year is a look at US wet soup category performance in the past year and our share performance as measured by IRI.
For the 52 week period ending August 3 2014 the category as a whole declined 1.1%.
Our sales and measured channels decline 2% with low single-digit declines in condensed and ready-to-serve soups probably offset by high single-digit growth in broth.
Campbell had a 59% market share a decrease of 50 basis points in the period.
All other branded players collectively had a share of 28% with private label with at 13%.
Cash flow from operations was 899 million compared with 1.19 billion in the prior year.
The decline was primarily due to lower cash earnings and taxes paid on the divestiture of the European simple meals business probably offset by low working capital requirements.
Capital expenditures of 347 million increased from 336 million a year ago.
Net debt decreased by 337 million to 3.783 billion.
Now I’ll talk about our fiscal 2015 guidance.
As we’ve stated fiscal 2014 comprised 53 weeks which includes one additional week.
As shown on the chart we estimate that the extra week benefited sales by two points EBIT by three points and EPS by $0.08 per share.
On a 52-week adjusted basis in 2014 we delivered 8.139 billion in sales 1.244 billion in EBIT and EPS of $2.45.
These 52-week numbers are the base for our fiscal 2015 guidance.
As we stated at our recent investor day while we expect to achieve growth in 2015 we do not expect to achieve our long-term target growth rates.
For fiscal 2015 we expect continuing operations to grow sales by 1% to 2% adjusted EBIT to go grow between 0% and 2% and EPS to grow 0% to 2% or $2.45 to $2.50 per share.
Turning to solve the key assumptions underlying our guidance we expect inflation and cost of products sold of approximately 3% to 4% driven by double-digit increases in dairy meats and tomatoes.
Cost inflation will be mostly offset by estimated productivity gains of 3% as a percentage of cost of products sold.
We expect our gross margin percentage to be comparable to last year as we realize some gains in net pricing and wrap some one-time cost most notably the Plum recall.
The anticipated return of incentive compensation to targeted levels represents of four point headwind at EBIT or approximately $0.09 per share the majority of which will flow-through our administrative expense line.
We expect that the benefit from our restructuring initiatives including the program initiated in the fourth quarter will probably offset the incentive compensation impact.
The effective tax rate is projected to be in the 31% to 32% range comparable to fiscal 2014.
This guidance assumes a modest EPS contribution from share repurchases as we anticipate resuming our strategic share repurchase program in 2015.
We forecast capital expenditures to increase by 50 million to approximately 400 million as we increase funding for capacity expansion project for Goldfish Bolthouse Farms aseptic broth and our business in Indonesia.
As Denise has already mentioned given our performance in the first half last year we expect strong performance in the first quarter and softer performance in the second quarter which should add up to a first half that’s more consistent with our annual guidance.
Thank you.
And now I will turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Anthony.
At this time will conduct the Q&amp;A session.
We would likely to request that our callers limit themselves to a single question.
If you have a second question we invite you to re-enter the queue as we’ll take double dippers after everyone else has had the opportunity to pose a question.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Denise just wondering if you could provide an update on the sauces strategy and maybe the products you’re seeing in terms of retailers adopting these dedicated aisle merchandisers and your expectations for the contribution of sauces to growth in fiscal ’15.
Our sauces strategy is to continue to build pace brand.
We have on the docket for F ‘15 some innovation and brand building programs.
But most of the contribution from sauces will come from the growth in Prego where we are continuing to expand our white sauces and also the innovation in our Campbell’s dinner sauces where we have introduced Skillet and Slow Cooker sauces and this year we are introducing Oven sauces and that platform continues to build.
We now have the majority of retailers giving us an extra four foot section in the stores as a destination for these particular sauces.
So it’s a very strong and profitable business for us.
Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Denise in the prepared remarks I think you made a comment about remaining committed to investing in the platforms for the long-term but also having the willingness to take additional actions if industry headwinds accelerate.
So just trying to get a sense of what you meant by those additional actions; is that a potential for just to be more thoughtful around marketing in the year potentially or incremental restructuring or both or things beyond that then I didn’t mention thank you.
I think it’s really important that the company given the fact that we are still having challenges on our organic sales to continue to invest in these brands and to make sure that we are innovating and that is going to take the investment that we have in our plans.
However given the volatility in the market place on some of the commodity issues that we’re facing et cetera we are constantly looking for additional opportunities for cost reduction and management of those margins.
So that’s what I was indicating their.
We believe that we’ve got it balanced but quite frankly if there are surprises we will take extra action to make sure to deliver what we said we’re going to do.
Got it.
So a little less on marketing side where I think you have mentioned even at your analyst day that does need to be continued to be bolstered behind some of the new innovations and then maybe more on the cost side potentially.
Correct.
Absolutely.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Maybe a little bit of a follow-up to Andrew’s question for the long-term.
And then I have kind of a detail numbers question.
But on the long-term why wouldn’t and maybe this looks somewhat semantic but why wouldn’t you change your long-term targets either a little lower given the environment and the inability to achieve them over the last three years or just say okay our long-term targets now include the assumption of M&amp;A to stop.
The way we are looking at it Eric is we need about a point more of sales and two points of EBIT growth to get to the bottom of the range and when you think about the puts and takes that we’re cycling in F ‘14 that give was about four points of EBIT pressure in F ‘15 with a net impact of about $45 million from supply chain cost and incentive compensation.
Without this headwind EBIT would have been consistent with our long-term targets.
So we have line of sight of how to get there.
However we are saying that there may be a call for more M&amp;A to continue to diversify into faster growing spaces for sustainable achievement of those long-term targets.
Right.
And then Anthony if I could just follow I don’t understand one thing you said about the fiscal ‘15 assumptions.
Now you have already started out by saying that fiscal ‘15 is likely to be less than planned.
So if the incentive comp of 45 million is that a portion of what you would have assumed if you had achieve the targets.
I’m just surprised that wouldn’t the incentive comp headwinds be lower because you’re already at the start of the year assuming a less then average year.
Let me kill clarify Eric what I said is that our fiscal 2015 growth rate would be lower than our long-term target growth rates.
Those growth rates in F ‘15 are more consistent with our internal plans.
And the 0% to 2% EBIT and EPS growth includes the negative headwind from returning incentive compensation to target levels part of which is offset by restructuring benefits from the programs that we recently initiated.
But I guess I just don’t understand if you are starting out the year knowing that you’re going to be below your long-term plan and I realize your compositions a function of several plans or several different time periods.
Why would you restate or accrue the comp that what I guess is essentially a normal year’s level.
Do you understand what I’m saying? Yes.
You must be referring to the multi year programs and the annual plan resets every year so that certainly goes back to target levels.
The way the accruals work on the longer term ones is that you basically adjust to your current expectations so that going forward the increment is more consistent or closer to target.
Okay maybe I’ll follow up off-line.
I’ll pass up.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
I just wondered if I can get a little bit more color on the increase supply chain costs.
I know the through the year you had those I think weather in part was a factor.
But seems like those continued in the fourth quarter as well.
Can you give a little color on that and does that pressing in your response to Andrew’s question in part which you would be targeting if there was some more cost reduction activities.
On the fourth quarter we had a couple of situations in the supply chain was relatively unique and different than the full-year impacts that we saw around for example the Plum recall the impact of the extreme weather on warehousing and distribution costs.
What we saw in the fourth quarter is really two things and they both add up to being about a two point impact on gross margin quarter-over-quarter.
The first is the timing of our fixed cost absorption last year we had some favorability this year we had some unfavorability rating.
It’s a relatively small quarter we are truing up some of our fixed cost reserves and what we saw was year-on-year negative impact on gross margins.
And the second is on our open commodity hedges so we take forward cover on the majority of our hedge able items and what happened in the fourth quarter the underlying prices of those commodities declined and so we had to record a loss on some of those open commodity hedges.
So those two things happened in the fourth quarter and again they are not really kind of a recurring thing which is why I added the comment that looking ahead we do expect 2015 gross margin percentage to be comparable to this year.
And Chris just to build on that.
In the fourth quarter last year we were gearing up on launching Campbell’s Homestyle soup.
So that is something that we’re cycling this year.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
The absorption.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Just sticking with the soup category you’ve launched a wide range of new soups over the past few years the Go soups Slow Kettle Bisques and so on and yet the categories continues to decline it seems.
What have you learned from those new product launches over the years and what makes line up for fiscal ‘15 more likely to succeed this time.
Thank you.
Alexia what we’re doing in the next year is two things we are improving against our drivers of demand but we are also investing more in broader platforms to improve total category performance.
So each one of the things you listed in and of itself is a single initiative but when you bundle that into a premium soup platform we then will be building the expansion of Slow Kettle and the introduction of Campbell’s Organic soup.
We’re putting premium soup sections in stores so that we know that the consumer for these particular product is younger and more affluent so that gives us the range in value all the way from Condensed soup all the way up to a Premium soup and shelf-stable and then also in chilled and so focusing on premium soup platform we believe is a faster growing space for is within the soup category.
The second thing we are doing is Swanson broth is giving us an expansion to a flavor infused platform which is offering consumers a creative homing soup in meal solutions based on the insight of why I cook? And then within some of the brands we have platforms like pub-inspired Chunky or building out our Campbell’s Homestyle and Healthy Request soup.
So what we’ve really learned is by bundling these into platforms what we have to do is improve the total category performance which has been declining  and if you can do that by bringing new users into category we believe that’s the best opportunity for growth.
Our next question comes from the line of David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Just a follow-up on soup for this upcoming year.
What sort of year-over-year performance would expect simple meals and soups specifically similar to your overall top line guidance and where I’m going with this is your innovation marketing and renovation plans for this year how would you characterize them versus ‘14 and what do you think of weather comparisons are they neutral or perhaps negative event for ‘15 as you are thinking ahead.
Thanks.
He yes I would say I don’t want to give a specific forecast for simple meals but as Denise said we do expect soup to grow in 2014.
We do expect growth from some of our other areas within simple meals.
The challenge is that some of these core centre store categories have been sluggish of late and that’s kind of what’s holding its back.
We will flex the marketing to focus against some of the innovation that’s going on so the launch of Oven sauce and the launch of organic soups so will flex the marketing within there to do that.
We expect pretty significant renovation I mean Denise talked about 200 new SKUs a lot of those fit inside the simple meals category.
With regards to weather I would say kind of neutral year-on-year but don’t really focused too much on that.
The only thing I would add is that we typically plan our innovation at the average in the food business and so if something performs better than average we get a benefit from that.
But if something performs below that we believe that by planning to the average weekend balance out.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America/ Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Maybe a broader question just trying to conceptualize a little bit where we stand or will go going forward in terms of the core business.
I guess over the last few years the challenging environment the challenges have been really North America and I guess Australia and it’s been a combination of the economy or a weak consumer wallet and all the things that would drive that.
And then we’ve also got change in consumer case I guess from my perspective it seems like early on it was more a weak wallet and less sort of consumer tastes and maybe that’s changed now.
So can you just give is a sense for kind of of those items which ones are really causing the most pressure today and as you’re going forward which of those two do you think are the most important in addressing in terms of sort of getting the base to be where it needs in order to get ourselves back to the algorithm.
There are several factors but I’ll talk about two that are on our watch.
The first one is the impact of snack particularly on the recipients they are about 12% of our shopper base and that’s correlated to about 1% decline in sales.
There are about 19% of households in general based on government data.
IRI captures about 12% of them as they do their analysis.
And our analysis shows that about 30% of our retail customer base is experiencing greater dollar declines among these households versus their total retail shoppers.
So we are continuing to watch that.
The second is a shopping pattern of the next generation.
We’re watching the fact that 18 to 24-year-olds are not necessarily frequenting stores like their parents.
Now a lot of them live with their parents so that might explain some of it.
But as we dig deeper in it some of them haven’t even made any trips to either a club store or mass merchandiser in the last year.
So making sure that we are engaging this nice generation where they shop and how they are going to be engaging with brands is going to be very very important.
So those are the two things that we think are having a macro impact there are more.
But it’s fair to say in the near-term the longer term thing is getting the millennial I guess other people in the 20s to engage in the category more.
But the more specific thing that turned in the near-term which is simply be that financial pressure of the wallet.
Yes I would say being the finance guy that that weak wallet has a very significant impact.
We’re talking about our core category performance and probably something that we can affect the least and it’s certainly impacting some of our centre store categories.
Unlike the innovation thing we’re doing a lot about innovation.
Now those things are more in our control we understand where the consumer is going we can bring new products.
Denise talked about dinner sources we have a new line of [VHUs] as that is more healthy we have new varieties of Swanson and Chunky and Homestyle and Prego Vista.
All those things are addressing kind of where the consumer tastes is evolving.
The hardest one for us to get at obviously is that weak wallet and the impact on our core categories.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
So you’ve talked more recently about pulling back on some of the less productive promotional spending that you’ve seen through the course of the year and shifting these dollars back to advertising but with promotion about 2% headwind towards sales this quarter.
I guess it wasn’t clearly evident in Q4.
Were you able to make or have you been able to make these kinds of tactical adjustments you’d hope to make 2 to 3 months ago or is the competitive environment make it difficult to follow through on this.
Actually for F ‘15 we have made course corrections based on our F‘14 results and we’ve worked with both depths and frequency depending upon the category and the competition we are facing and obviously for competitive reasons we don’t disclose the specifics of our promotions but we have like I said taken up learning and applied it.
In general we aim to keep a total marketing spend which is a combination of advertising consumer and trade add about 25% of less sales.
But the marketing mix is going to vary depending upon the brand and the category and the competitive set in that category.
And then just to clarify with respect to some of the marketing and selling costs overall for the full-year and my sense is that this should definitely be up year-on-year in absolute terms because of this course correction but can you just confirm that that’s the right way to think about it on a full-year basis not necessarily quarter-to-quarter.
Yes.
Denise was referring to our total marketing so advertising consumer and trade spending not the selling and marketing line on the P&amp;L and trying to keep it around 24% to 25% of their sales.
I wouldn’t expect any significant changes in those percentages year-on-year or ‘15 versus ’14.
Maybe some slight changes within them but nothing significant.
Our next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I want to drill down a little bit more on gross margin I think at least for me that was the biggest surprise in the quarter.
Can you help us quantify the Plum recall expenses as well as the other supply chain expenses or I would guess the mark-to-market charges that hit you this year.
Then bigger question thinking forward into next year you are guiding for inflation to modestly outstrip productivity as I think now it was getting at net pricing at our promotions has been eroding into the new fiscal year and you had this mix issue within your P&amp;L presumably as soup sales lag and some of your lower margin or faster growth piece of the portfolio becoming a bigger piece.
So in context to all that how are we comfortable gross margins being flat in fiscal ’15.
Okay I can address that because with any planning cycles there are certainly puts and takes.
In this year we had the Plum recall that was worth $16 million as we’ve discussed.
In the four quarters we had this issue around losses on open commodity contracts both of those are going to turn and go the other way in 2015 but there has been some one-offs or takes in 2015 as well.
Most of that Plum recall wrap is going to be offset by unfavorable currency movement at the transaction level.
So imports into both Canada and Australia are adversely impacted by the weakening of those currencies.
So there are a number of pluses and minuses that kind of net out with the exception of the incentive compensation headwind and we’ve talked about that that’s $45 million.
A good portion of that $45 million is going to be offset by the benefit of our restructuring programs.
We had three quarters this year where we’ve announced restructuring initiatives combined when we fully implement those it’s worth 65 million we won’t get all that in F ‘15 but we’ll get a good portion of that.
So we’re trying to mitigate that impact and again we have a number of puts and takes and they kind of all balance out with the exception of that one big one.
Okay that’s helpful.
Switching gears Denise to you on M&amp;A you’ve kind of hinted that maybe M&amp;A is on the cards but you put out this $10 billion sales bogey in five years and even given your credits for pretty healthy acceleration to your underlying portfolio.
You’re going to come easily $1 billion plus short of that without M&amp;N.
So A is that the right way to think about it and then B as we contemplate up to 1 billion or more of acquired sales: next five years how do we think about your prioritization in terms of buying businesses that accelerate long-term growth to your portfolio versus buying businesses that can have a meaningful impact on both the top and bottom line right out of the gates.
Well we continue to evaluate M&amp;A targets that are a good strategic fit but we have a very disciplined approach.
So I don’t want to take away the [b’s] that we’re going to be reckless about this.
We definitely have been looking at specific targets but we’ve walked away from more than we made.
So the prioritization will be about the places that we’ve picked being the global baking and snacking area the packaged fresh area health and wellness in North America.
Those are the three areas that we believe that they are faster growing spaces for us based on the strategy that we’ve laid out.
And we do have the financial flexibility to make a meaningful acquisition but like I said we are being very disciplined about it.
If I could just add to that I mean certainly M&amp;A can play a role as you’ve seen us deal with Bolthouse and Plum and Kelsen in terms of improving our growth profile and we’ll continue to look for opportunities to do that.
But we also recognize that in terms of value creation the best thing we can do is improve the performance of our base business.
And Denise has talked about the dual mandate we are focused on expanding in the higher growth spaces with innovation and packaged fresh and availability in the international business that we do own.
So it’s a combination of improving the base and expanding through M&amp;A that will get us to that $10 billion target.
Got it.
Thanks a lot guys I’ll pass it on.
I know we are at the hour but we’ll keep going because we still have a few people in the queue.
Our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
I wanted to ask about Denise’s comments about four pillars to accelerate growth in particular the move in to some non-traditional channels and I am particularly interested in promo spending has been pretty inefficient most of your peers have said the same and you even commented about (inaudible) not shopping the way their parents do.
So I guess my question’s really as promo hasn’t really produced the volume lift can you first of all quantify what percentage of your sales is coming from these alternative channels and then can you talk a little bit about how you will go about getting into say C- stores or clubs or maybe you could just give us a few more details on kind of what’s behind that comment and then obviously those channels are pretty competitive.
So if you could just explain that up a little bit.
I would be very interested in hearing that thank you.
Well we have a majority of our business still concentrated largely in grocery and mass merchandiser which gives us lots of opportunity for expansion in other channels and we believe that we need to make a concerted effort to do so.
We have expanded our sales presence and our programming across multiple channels and we are also paying attention to the e-commerce space with many of our large customers and so we are doing a better job in terms of tailoring programs in some of these new spaces.
So we’re not highly efficient right out of the gate but we are learning and getting better at it.
I think most of the promotional situations that we have though this year was more in our traditional channels and we were working more with frequency and less depths and in some categories like baked snacks and soup that didn’t work as well as we expected it to.
So we are of course correcting.
We have a very significant initiative against the immediate consumption channels that we’ve talked about as we develop our own router to market network.
At this point we have over 100 new distributors signed up.
That transition is largely complete we’ve got over hundred thousand doors in terms of coverage and we expect to see some growth coming from this initiative probably by the second-quarter of fiscal ’15.
And the original focus on that is beverage from both V8 and Bolthouse Farms.
Okay thank you for the additional color.
Yes and I think our estimate routing that channels Diane is about 10% somewhere in there.
Our next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking the question I see the hour show.
I’ll be direct here I wanted to just talk a little bit about the gross margins.
When I look really big picture at Campbell’s Soup in more than 10 years of data Denise we haven’t seen a gross margin like this.
I mean 35.4% it’s remarkable in respect to what Campbell has produced for so many years.
I also believe that at the beginning of the year you guys thought that the gross margin would actually be kind of flattish on the year end and it was down 190 basis points.
So there are a lot of things that have really happened that I think were not easily predictable by the team.
The point in the question is can adjust discuss why gross margins wouldn’t have significant risk to the downside ongoing for the very same factors that kind of drove the F ‘14 numbers.
And is it simply all about this 65 million in savings is that the lifeline that we are hoping that really stabilizes gross margins thank you.
Guess I think the first is we certainly acknowledge what has happened to our gross margin over the last couple of years and the principal driver of that has been an increase in trade rates and it has to do with the environment it has to do with a couple of a businesses namely US soup in Australia and more recently in Pepperidge Farm.
And I think the difference and certainly it is a challenging goal we acknowledge that.
But we also acknowledge in order for us to hit our financial targets we need to do a better job at managing this trade rate closer to flat.
We have plans to that in 2015 with a combination of changes promote price points that something that we didn’t have coming into this year so that has a direct and immediate impact on the amount of trade.
We have adjustment to the frequency and around specific promotional events continuing to learn in terms of what programs are more productive versus less productive and that to reallocate within the portfolio.
I think most of the challenge in Australia is fully behind us we have specific plans to address the issue of late within Pepperidge Farm.
So as we look across the portfolio and again its going to very by category but we are looking to hold the trade rate relatively flat and it is a challenge but that’s our plan and what we are trying to do in 2015 because we know how critical it is to the gross margin to get this trade rate back to flattish.
I mean to state the obvious it’s unsettling to see these gross margins do what they are doing and then to have confidence in the model.
Certainly ‘15 will be critical.
Can you describe or quantify the size of the commodity impacts for the open hedge position that it took in the fourth quarter.
If I’m correct that’s a reversible item.
So what will happen is as you actually recognize those the actual transactions through F‘15.
What was the headwind in the fourth quarter will become a tailwind within the operating segments as the course of ‘15 plays through and the hedges are used up.
Yes somebody studied hedge accounting it’s about $10 million.
It’s 10 million bucks and then I would go back to Eric’s question just to speed it.
I think I want to state it simply the $45 million of incentive comp that you built back into the plan I think what Eric was getting at is kind of why does all 45 million get back into the budget for the year when the expectation is that the company will not achieved its long-term targets.
I mean it’s in simple form and he doesn’t mean to come across that harsh.
I mean Denise may be the right answer is you just have to pay the team in order to keep the team.
I think we all just kind of want to understand the philosophy on the 45 million and what it takes to maintain the excitement of the people running the business.
Let me jump in first here and then Denise can come at it if she’d like.
Thanks for the second attempt here at an answer.
Think about it as two parts again there is an annual incentive plan which kind of resets each year and then there is long term targets that will increase year-on-year but do not get back to 100% pay out.
So the annual incentive goes back to target the long terms ones will go up next year but they don’t go anywhere near a 100% if they are set against our long term sales and EPS targets.
We definitely have pay for performance compensation system and with sales goals that are higher than our guidance.
I think we have time for one more question.
Our final question comes from the line of Todd Duvick with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Very simply on the balance sheet you had $700 million of debt that matured in August and I think you had capacity to refinance that with commercial paper and I guess my question is really two-fold.
First of all would you look to refinance a portion of that in the debt capital markets to term out a portion of your floating rate debt and in terms of capital allocation priorities do you continue to be focused somewhat on debt reduction for FY ’15.
I can take that.
In F’14 we had $700 million of long term debt maturing.
We also had cash flow that enabled us to reduce our total debt levels by $300 million to $400 million.
So one of them has been just paid off with cash from operations and the other as you pointed out refinance with commercial paper.
As you know we have pretty access to capital markets so we are continuing to evaluate opportunities to come to market.
We don’t have a specific plan to share with you today on that but again we are looking at that pretty closely.
In terms of capital allocation priorities not much has changed there.
Obviously our first priority is to fund our ongoing business the second would be dividends third M&amp;A and the last would be share repurchases.
What’s changing in F’15 is that we are going resume in a modest fashion a return to share repurchases get a little bit of EPS benefit in F’15 but that would be the only change for us going forward.
Thanks and thanks everybody for hanging on a little extra time there.
We appreciate you for joining us on our fourth quarter earnings call and webcast.
If you missed any of our calls the replay will be available about two hours after our call concludes simply dial 7039252533 the replay access code is 164 2451.
You have until September 22 at midnight at which point we move our earnings call to the website at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com just click on news and events then recent webcast and presentation.
If you are a reporter and have questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at 856-342-3737.
Investors and analysts should call me Jennifer Driscoll no catchy number just 856-342-6081.
This concludes today's program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the Campbell Soup First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce to your host for today's conference Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the first quarter earnings call for Campbell Soup's fiscal 2015.
With me here in New Jersey today are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Anthony DiSilvestro our Chief Financial Officer; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
We will start with a few housekeeping items.
Then Denise will offer her perspective on the quarter and progress with our F'15 objectives.
Anthony will discuss our financial results for the quarter before elaborating on our expectations for fiscal 2015.
After that we will take your questions.
As usual we have created slides that accompany our presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Our call is open to the media who are participating in listen-only mode.
You probably noticed this morning that we reformatted our earnings release in an effort to enhance readability.
We made the changes based on feedback from you our investors and analysts.
We hope you will agree that the new earnings format as well as the enhancements we made to our earnings call will make it easier for you to understand the business and to find the key points.
Thanks for those of you who offered input and let us know if you have feedback on our changes.
Today we will make forward-looking statements which reflect our current expectations.
These statements rely on assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to risks.
Please refer to Slide 4 to our SEC filings for a list of factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in our forward-looking statements.
While in the current quarter we had no new items affecting comparability our comparisons of fiscal 2015 with fiscal 2014 will exclude previously announced items.
Because we use non-GAAP measures we provided in our appendix a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
With that let me turn the call over to Denise Morrison.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone.
Today I am going to share my perspective on our first quarter 2015 performance.
I will review the key drivers of our results including our positive organic sales performance across most of our core and acquired businesses.
Then I will discuss the challenges we are facing and the actions we are taking.
Our challenges include our gross margin performance and the impact of currency headwinds which Anthony will review in greater detail in his presentation.
As a reminder we said on September 8<sup>th</sup> that we don't expect our growth in fiscal 2015 to be evenly distributed across quarters.
As a result we believe that evaluating our business performance on a first-half basis rather than a quarterly basis will be more meaningful.
Let us start by examining the key growth drivers in our core business in the quarter.
I was pleased that we drove top and bottom-line growth in U.S.
Simple Meals with higher sales in our U.S.
soup portfolio.
Our U.S.
soup performance benefitted from a stronger seasonal sell-in and the timing of our quarter end relative to the Thanksgiving holiday.
As we stated one of our strategic priorities is to expand our presence in the faster growing premium soup which represents roughly 10% of the wet soup category.
We made good progress as we launched new Slow Kettle varieties in the quarter to drive the brand's double-digit sales growth.
Many of our retail customers have created a dedicated shelf space for our premium soups where we have gained additional linear fee.
The next step in our plan is to expand further with the launch of six varieties of Campbell's organic soup in easier to open cartons this January.
Another key driver in U.S.
Simple Meals was our strong performance in sauces including Prego Pace and Campbell's dinner sauces as we introduce new products and leverage merchandising.
We expanded our dinner sauces platform beyond Skillet and Slow Cooker pouches with the launch of Oven Sauces in the quarter which has quickly achieved 52% ACV.
Overall Campbell dinner sauces now have over 80% ACV with dedicated sections that are becoming a consumer destination.
Within Global Baking and Snacking a significant improvement in our core business was our performance in Australian biscuits.
We are moving in the right direction to stabilize the business in Australia where we drove our net sales and earnings.
Our tame [ph] growth consumption and share in total biscuits by strengthening planning and execution with our retail partners increasing marketing and promotion behind core brands and driving innovation including new Tim Tam varieties in light and crispy Arnott’s Shapes.
I was also pleased with the continued strong growth in our Indonesia business which expanded beyond sweet biscuits into savory crackers with the introduction of Arnott’s Shapes.
Now let's look at the performance of the trio of growth engines that we acquired in the last two years Bolthouse Farms Plum Organics and Kelsen.
Strategically we acquired these businesses to expand in the faster growing spaces and respond to the seismic shifts in the consumer landscape including the focus on health and well-being and the growth of the middle class in developing markets.
Together these businesses contributed one point of organic sales growth to our company in the quarter.
We were encouraged by Bolthouse Farms' strong top-line growth.
We continue to expand distribution in packaged fresh super premium beverages and fresh salad dressings.
Bolthouse Farms has strengthened its number one share position in premium beverages over the last year while simplifying and streamlining its beverage portfolio increasing space for higher velocity offerings and reducing out of stocks.
During the quarter we also launched Bolthouse Farms Kids the brands first line of healthy beverages and Veggie Snackers for children.
We are merchandising Bolthouse Farms Kids with a dedicated shelf set in the fresh produce section to further expand our position in the fast-growing perimeter.
Our goal is to become a branded leader in the $18.6 billion packaged fresh category.
Plum Organics delivered double-digit sales growth after facing challenges a year ago as the number one brand in the organic segment of the U.S.
baby food market Plum continue to expand distribution and drive innovation in simple meals and snacks.
We are continuing to integrate Plum to leverage Campbell's Kettle and amp up its expansion while maintaining its entrepreneurial spirit.
Kelsen which we acquired early in last year's first quarter to expand our global snacks business delivered higher sales as it continued to meet our expectations.
We are focused on expanding distribution in key cities in China.
The second quarter historically marks the peak season for Kelsen sales and earnings as an authentic Danish butter cookies are often exchanged by friends and families in China and gifts for holidays and festive occasions including Chinese New Year's.
Now let us take a look at some of our challenges and how we are addressing them.
I am going to focus my remarks on two businesses that underperformed Pepperidge Farm and U.S.
Beverages but before I get to those  Let me say that our gross margin performance in the quarter did not meet our expectations.
Some of the pressure came from higher than anticipated commodity inflation and some came from unexpected costs in our supply chain including manufacturing and transportation costs.
Anthony will describe these issues in greater detail in a few moments.
We are taking action to manage costs aggressively and working all the levers to mitigate the unexpected pressure on gross margin.
Turning to the businesses Pepperidge Farms' performance in the quarter was mixed.
I was pleased with our growth in cookies driven by Milano and crispy Pepperidge Farm varieties.
We also drove strong results in fresh bakery which continue to outperform the market with consumption and share gains.
Fresh bakery benefited from our focus on seasonal offerings and quality improvements.
Our main challenge in this business is to restore growth in crackers.
It is important to examine the total cracker category.
For the past two years dollar consumption growth trends have slowed in the category and were flat to declining in the quarter.
We see several crucial drivers in this category deceleration.
First we are seeing a shift in consumer snacking preferences.
About of half of cracker consumers are buying crackers and other snacks less frequently.
When they do they are shifting in some cases to snacks that are better for you or in the opposite end of the spectrum more indulgent snacks.
Second approximately three quarters of the losses in the total category has been in sandwich crackers where we don't compete.
Third total advertising in the category has declined more than 20% in the last year impacting velocities as price and distribution held.
Finally there has been a decline in the number of new products introduced in the category resulting in less excitement from innovation in the cracker isle.
In this environment some major brands have continued to outpace the category.
One of those brands is Goldfish which has consistently outperformed the category over the last three years.
In the first quarter despite growing consumption and share and outperforming the category Goldfish sales declined due in part to cycling the distribution build of the launch of Goldfish Puffs.
We are not satisfied with this performance given the brand's steady track record of growth over many years.
We continue to expect Goldfish sales to be up for the year behind strong holiday programs increased advertising and consumer promotion and improved in-store merchandising.
Going forward we are increasing advertising by about 20% with a quarter of our spend in digital media.
Our plans include increased innovation including new flavors of Goldfish and Goldfish Puffs.
Turning now to U.S.
Beverages although we grew operating earnings sales in V8 V-Fusion and V8 vegetable juice declined as shelf stable category remained under pressure.
Our plans to revitalize our V8 platform are underway.
The next step is the January launch of V8 veggie blends.
We are optimistic about this launch as we plan to tap into the juicing trends by offering nutritious affordable juicing that is convenient for the consumer.
Separately in the quarter we extended the V8 brand to a new category with the launch of V8 protein shakes and bars to expand into adult on-the-go nutrition a multibillion-dollar category.
This is another example of our focus on driving breakthrough innovation to expand in the faster growing spaces.
Looking ahead although we face more challenging comparisons we are confident about our plans for the year which include driving continued growth in U.S.
Simple Meals continuing our turnaround in Australian biscuits which moved in the right direction in the first quarter restoring growth in Goldfish crackers and improving Pepperidge Farms' top-line performance revitalizing V8 to bring news to the shelf-stable juice category and delivering strong performance in Bolthouse Farms Plum Organics and Kelsen.
Across our portfolio we are responding to the consumer shift to health and well-being with new on-trend products ranging from Campbell's organic soups and V8 veggie blends in the center of the store to Bolthouse Farms Kids in the fresh parameter and V8 protein shakes and bars in health and beauty aisle.
Finally we are taking action to mitigate gross margin pressure in the remainder of the year.
To sum up we delivered organic sales growth across most our core and acquired businesses in the first quarter with stronger performance is in U.S.
Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking.
We have more work ahead and challenges to overcome this year but we remain focused on our strategy to strengthen our core business and expand in the faster growing spaces to reshape our portfolio for a more profitable growth trajectory.
I look forward to answering your questions in a few minutes.
Now let me turn the call over to Anthony for a detailed review of our financial performance.
Good morning.
Thanks Denise.
Before getting into the details I wanted to give some perspective on our result and guidance.
As Denise said we are encouraged with our top-line performance as we start the fiscal year.
However this top-line performance is dampened by gross margin pressure from higher than anticipated cost inflation and supply chain related costs.
The other item I want to call out is currency.
Due to the recent and significant strength of the U.S.
dollar against most major foreign currencies we are seeing a negative impact that we did not forecast.
Based on this headwind and volatility from currency translation we have reduced the low end of our guidance ranges.
Importantly our currency neutral expectations have not changed.
Now I will review our results.
First quarter net sales increased 4% to $2 255 million organic net sales increased by 5% with volume and organic sales gains in four of our five reportable segments.
Sales in the quarter benefited from movements in retailer inventory levels from a stronger seasonal sell-in and the later timing of our quarter relative to the Thanksgiving holiday.
In aggregate the movements in retailer inventory represent about half of our organic sales gains in the quarter.
We are encouraged by the sales performance in Australia and from the performance of our recent acquisitions Bolthouse Farms Plum and Kelsen contributed one point of total company organic growth in the quarter.
Adjusted EBIT increased 9% reflecting the higher sales the benefit of lapping the prior year Plum recall and lower administrative and marketing expenses which are partly offset by the decline in our gross margin percentage.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 12% to $0.74.
Decomposing our sales performance favorable volume mix was the main driver of the increase primarily in the U.S.
Simple Meal and Global Banking and Snacking segment.
Overall increased promotional spending was negatively impacted to sales by one point.
While our promotional rate was stable in our largest segment U.S.
Simple Meals the increase was driven by higher rate of spending in the Global Banking and Snacking segment.
Currency also negatively impacted sales by one point as our two primary foreign currencies the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar both weakened against the U.S.
dollar.
We are disappointed with our gross margin performance which did not meet our expectations.
The bridge on this chart highlights the factors impacting our performance.
First cost inflation and other factors had a negative impact of 340 basis points.
Most of this was cost inflation which as a rate increased by almost 4%.
Recent and unanticipated increases in dairy beef and aluminum have added to the overall inflation impact.
Also with pressure on carrier capacity we are seeing much higher freight cost.
For the full fiscal year we now anticipate cost inflation at the high-end of our 3% to 4% range.
In our North American supply chain we experienced higher than expected manufacturing and freight costs from significant volume demand early in the quarter.
As a result we ran production more weekend increased the use of co-packers and incurred higher freight costs in the spot market.
Promotional spending negatively impacted gross margin by 70 basis points primarily impacted by higher spending in the Baking and Snacking segment.
While volumes increased this segment trade had a negative impact on margins.
Moving to the right as we wrap both the Plum recall and the one-time purchase accounting impact on the Kelsen acquisition these represent a 90-basis point gain.
Lastly we continue to drive meaningful productivity gains in our supply chain which contributed 140-basis point of improvement.
Looking ahead reflecting our revised inflation outlook and first quarter performance we now expect our gross margin percentage of the full year to decline 50 to 100 basis points due largely to the residual cost inflation and cost to maintain our customer service levels as we recover from the early spike in demand.
Longer term our investments soup common platform and broad capacity will increase our flexibility to respond to volatility in demand.
Importantly we will manage the balance of the P&amp;L to mitigate the negative impact including our overhead and supply chain costs and our marketing programs and also evaluate price realization opportunities.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased 5%.
As you may recall we increased advertising in the prior year quarter to support new product launches and Bolthouse Farms.
Marketing reductions in the current quarter reflect lower advertising spending in U.S.
Simple Meals primarily advertising production costs and a shift in advertising in U.S.
Beverages to the back half of the year to support the launch of our new V-8 veggie blend platform.
Administrative expenses were down 9% driven by lower long-term incentive compensation costs and cost savings related to prior year restructuring initiatives.
Given that our annual cycle for long-term incentive compensation is at the end of the first quarter we had favorability through this quarter and as we have discussed previously expect a significant headwind for the balance of the year.
For additional perspective on our performance this chart breaks down or EPS growth between our operating performance and below the line items.
As you can see we grew adjusted EPS by $0.08 per share $0.07 of which is attributable to the growth in EBIT.
Net interest expense declined $5 million versus a year ago as we reduced our debt level using the proceeds of the European Simple Meals divestiture and this contributed a penny to EPS growth in the quarter.
Our tax rate remained relatively flat declining 40 basis points to 31.8%.
We resumed repurchases under our strategic share repurchase program in a quarter repurchasing $50 million under this program.
However given the timing there was no impact on EPS growth in the quarter.
While currency had a point impact on sales it did not impact EPS in the quarter.
For the full year and based on current exchange rates we estimate currency will have a $0.03 per share negative impact.
As this was not anticipated we have adjusted the lower end of our guidance range to reflect the impact.
Now turning to our segment results.
Sales growth in U.S.
Simple Meals was 8% driven by strong volume gains.
U.S.
soup sales increased 6% benefiting from movements in retailer inventory levels due to a strong seasonal selling and the later timing of our quarter end relative to the Thanksgiving holiday.
Sales of other simple meals increased 14%; driven by growth in Plum Prego benefiting from white sauces and in our dinner sauce platform which now includes Oven Sauces.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals increased 15% with eight points of the growth due to cycling the Plum recall in the prior year.
In Global Baking and Snacking we achieved a 3% organic sales growth driven by the improved performance of Arnott’s.
We are pleased with our consumption and share gains in the Australian biscuit category given our previous challenges while Indonesia delivered another quarter of double-digit sales gains.
Within Pepperidge Farm fresh bakery and cookie sales grew.
Goldfish crackers had share gains but sales decline.
Sales of frozen products were also soft.
Operating earnings for Global Baking and Snacking increased 15% of which 10 points was due to wrapping the negative impact of purchase accounting on the Kelsen acquisition in the prior year.
In Bolthouse and Foodservice segment growth continued to be driven by sales gains in Bolthouse premium beverages and salad dressings.
The decline in operating earnings was primarily driven by a lower gross margin percentage with cost inflation across the segment.
International Simple Meals and Beverages grew organic sales by 5%.
Strong sales gains in Canada were driven by innovation and higher levels of promotional activity.
Declines in operating earnings reflect the impact of increased marketing support.
U.S.
Beverage sales fell 3% and declined in the immediate consumption channel as we continue to implement our new route to market.
Across the portfolio sales declined in V8 V-Fusion and V8 vegetable juice more than offset gains in V8 Splash.
Operating earnings improved as we shift the timing of our marketing programs to the back half to support the launch of the veggie blends platform.
Within U.S.
soup the 6% sales growth was driven by gains in condensed and Swanson broth.
Condensed eating and cooking varieties rose.
Swanson broth continues to perform well in the marketplace led by aseptic broth which benefited from earlier holiday shipments.
Sales of ready-to- serve soup were comparable to the prior year as declines in volume were partly offset by lower promotional spending as activity was shifted to the second quarter of this year.
While our soup sales increased 6% consumer takeaway in measured channels for the comparable 13-week period ending November 2<sup>nd</sup> declined by 2%.
Here is a look at U.S.
wet soup category performance and our share results as measured by IRI.
For the 52-week period ending November 2<sup>nd</sup> 2014 the category as a whole declined 0.5%.
Our sales in measured channels declined 1.6% with weakness in condensed and ready-to-serve soups partly offset by strength in broth.
Campbell had a 59% market share a decrease of 70 basis points.
All other branded players collectively had a share of 28% with gains driven by smaller players.
Private label also grew share finishing at 13%.
We had strong cash flow performance as cash from operations increased from $38 million to $188 million reflecting lower working capital requirements lower pension contributions and reduced payments related to hedging activities.
Capital expenditures increased slightly to $62 million.
We continue to expect capital expenditures of about $400 million for the year as we increase capacity to support growth in our faster growing businesses.
We paid dividend totaling $101 million reflecting our current quarterly dividend rate of $0.312 per share.
In aggregate we repurchase 73 million of shares in the quarter 50 million of which were under our strategic share repurchase program.
The balance of the repurchases were made to our offset dilution from equity-based compensation.
Based in our current investment plans we anticipate making strategic share repurchases at this pace on average for the balance of the year.
Net debt declined almost $700 million to $3.8 billion including the proceeds from the European simple meals divestiture.
Approximately 22% of our sales are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar with the Australian dollars and Canadian dollar making up the majority of our non-U.S.
sales.
Since September both of these currencies have declined in value relative to the U.S.
dollar and while not a material impact to our first quarter if the current rates hold for the balance of the year we will see a more meaningful impact.
At current exchange rates we estimated to negatively impact our full year performance by one percentage point of sales EBIT and EPS and is the reason we are adjusting down the lower end of our guidance ranges as illustrated on the next chart.
As we announced early this morning we have adjusted our fiscal 2015 guidance as show.
Our currency-neutral expectations have not changed for sales and earnings.
While we now anticipate some pressure on our gross margin percentage we have plans in place to mitigate the impact.
We now expect sales growth of zero to plus-2% adjusted EBIT from minus 1% to plus 2% and adjusted EPS from minus 1% to plus 2% or $2.42 to $2.50 per share.
As we said previously we anticipated stronger first quarter performance.
Because we are cycling a more robust second quarter last year we expect the first half as more consistent with our full year guidance.
Thank you.
Now I will turn it back to Jennifer.
Thanks Anthony.
We will now start our Q&amp;A session.
Since we have limited time out of fairness to other callers please ask only one question at a time.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Alexia.
Good morning.
Denise you mentioned once or twice the fast growing parameter of the store.
From what you have seen the retail is expanding for its space at the moment and what does this mean to the shelf space in the center of the store.
Obviously it is great for Bolthouse.
It might be more difficult in the ambient product.
Thank you.
Thank you Alexia.
You know we have seen over the past several years a expansion and build-out of the perimeter of stores.
Within the produce section however the additional space that we are getting for the Bolthouse Kids launch is largely a reconfiguration of existing space so pulling from other things in produce and carving out a section for Bolthouse Kids and that has been largely the way the premium beverage and the salad dressing sections have been expanded as well.
I think it is more yes perimeter space continues to expand and then within and the produce section there has been a larger dedication of space CPG items.
I would add to that I mean if you look at the center of store and our in our soup business I mean given the level of innovation we are bringing to the market with the premium expansion and soon the organic soup launch we are expecting to gain shelf space in our soup category.
Thank you very much.
I will pass it on.
Our next question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi.
Your line is open.
Thank you and good morning.
Hi David.
Good morning.
I wanted to just pull a little bit more on this gross margin issue.
I mean this looks to be a fairly significant issue.
I think Anthony you said now down 50 basis points to down 100 basis points for the full year and previously the expectation correct me if I am wrong but it was up modestly was the prior expectations.
Is that correct? I think we said it is expected to be stable so versus stable yes we are down now looking to be down 50 to 100 basis points and to just dimensionalize that you know we did not anticipate the recent increases in diary and aluminum and also what freight costs are doing and that is the majority of that 50-basis point to 100-basis point decline.
The other piece of it is higher than anticipated supply chain cost related to that early spike in demand that we had to deal with.
May I say that - I always thought that you had a pretty good visibility on the protein side because of your relationships with your suppliers you know these things didn't kind of just suddenly come up and I thought the entire purpose of that was that gaining pricing in soup during soup season is like all but impossible.
Maybe you know is my recollection of history correct in kind of why is it different this time? Yes.
I think we have a pretty broad array of input cost.
Certainly on proteins it is a significant part of it and we do have good relationships always with our suppliers but the markets have been extremely volatile and I don't think we are the only ones that are seeing this type of activity.
There has been issue on the supply side related to the drought.
There has been issues on the demand side related to foreign buyers and this just created a lot of volatility that frankly we didn't anticipate.
The way you offset this is by number one it is going to be lowering marketing spending.
Then number two lower overhead spending.
Do I have that in the right order? I would switch the order of that and I would also add that we are evaluating price realization opportunities and also pushing on our supply-chain to one fix the problem and two contribute to those cost savings.
Super.
Thank you.
I will pass it along.
Our next question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi.
I just had a quick question for you if I could.
If you look at this quarter you are getting - you seem to be increasing contributions from the sauces business within U.S.
Simple Meals in particular as well as the premiums so I wondered if you could give a little color around how those two products benefited the sales for that division in the quarter? Maybe related to that ready to serve is a little weaker than I had thought against the relatively easy comp premium soups - ready to serve [ph] clearing and understand why that was more weaker than I thought? Okay.
First of all we have had for the past several years a very good run with our base sauce businesses particularly in the Prego line.
Recall part of our innovation plan was the successful launch of Prego white sauces which has done incredibly well.
We have increased our advertising against the brand.
We are also advertising to Hispanics which has been very productive for so we are very pleased with the innovation and the brand building that has gone on in our base sauce business and pace also a very good quarter  One of the things that is also impacting our sauce business is the building of the dinner sauce platform.
Although it started small with one initiative in Skillet as we built from Skillet to Slow Cooker and now introduced Oven as we have gained an additional section in the store to house these sauces and create a consumer destination we really believe that that has added seriously to our sauce performance.
Of course this is a very good margin business for us as well.
Okay.
The only thing I would add to that is Plum is reported inside simple meals and it had a significant increase in sales in part due to wrapping the recall and in part due to expanded distribution.
Within ready to serve presumably premium soups grew that was a contributor to growth.
Was there one element of ready to serve that was weak whether that would be Chunky or Homestyle or? Yes.
There was a very good reason for that.
Our ready to serve business was relatively flat and that comes mostly from promotional timing moved to the second quarter out of the first quarter relative to last year.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from line of Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Ken.
Hi Ken.
Denise you have spoken in the recent past I think about course correcting your deals a little bit deal bags right? Going deeper in terms of discount but maybe a little bit less broadly I am just curious if it is still the plan because as we look Nielsen data we are seeing deeper levels of price discounting.
You are doing what you said but we are not really seeing a change in the percent lift from promotions so I am just curious how you think about that I guess breadth versus depth decision going forward here? We do expect our total marketing to be in the range of 24% to 25% of total lift sales.
Within that the mix will be different by category and we do recognize as we are very diligent about going back and looking at the productivity of our trade spending and we recognize that some of the spending last year particularly in Pepperidge Farm and soup did not achieve the anticipated lifts.
Predominantly it came from increasing the frequency of promotion so we do expect our overall trade rate trends to improve in the second half as we have course corrected in this area.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Crédit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
Hi Rob.
Good morning.
I guess I was wondering about this unexpected spike in demand.
If we look at the sales in the quarter they didn't come in that different from what we had modeled and I don't think it came in that different from what you had modeled so is this a specific customer making a last-minute decision that you felt like you had to react to? Then secondly gross margin being down 130 bips despite volume being up Anthony was there any kind of overhead absorption benefit from all this volume.
If not you know why not? Yes.
Let me start with the last part of that question.
No.
There wasn't absorption benefit because we still expect to make the same full-year production so it is just moving fixed cost with those cases between the quarters on an rate per case basis nothing really changed.
In terms of the volume spike what you don't see when you look at the quarter is the monthly variations and we had very strong volume demands early in the quarter so August-September and it is not a particular customer that has to do with just our overall programming and the timing of which customers place orders.
In order to meet the customer service requirements you know we had to run some more overtime we had to run some more weekends and obviously that cost us a bit more and we also had to get into the freight market on a spot basis so that is obviously a little more expensive so it is going to take us a little while here to catch up with that requirement but we would foresee improvements when we get to the second half of the year.
Okay.
Was it on the specific line of products or not.
It's mostly in our soup and sauce business in the U.S.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Happy holidays to you and your family.
Same to you Eric.
Good morning.
I guess I want to follow-up on Rob's question because I think it goes to the point.
I mean what kind of - I mean obviously we do the timing of Thanksgiving and you kind of have said that the shipments were well ahead of consumption so the first part is what are we looking for from sales in the second quarter given how much there - it seems like there was over-shipment versus consumption.
Yes.
I think that is a good point.
We as you know benefitted from the retailer inventory movement in our last year first quarter relative to this year's first quarter.
When you look at where we ended this quarter it is within the kind of the historical ranges but we are a bit higher than where we were last year so it is hard to predict exactly when that will come out but it could put some be a little bit of a headwind for us on second quarter top-line.
As we have also said we did expect no stronger first quarter and relatively softer second quarter and to finish the half with results more in line with our full year guidance so this is not in unexpected but again the thing that we did not expect was within the first quarter the acceleration to the earlier month or two.
Yes.
We actually had a stronger sell-in against back-to-school and as predicted had our holiday shipments some of our holiday shipments shipped in October and in the soup business at least about 75% of our consumption actually occurs in the second and the third quarters.
Okay.
Then Anthony I don't understand your answers to Rob's question about the volume lift and the absorptions.
Are you saying that regardless of quarterly volume you basically spread the fixed cost over the entire year kind of like just on some kind of basis as opposed to kind of counting it more specifically within the quarter.
It actually goes with the volume so you figure out on a fixed cost per case and you recognize those fixed costs as you sell them so it is not straight line.
It moves with the volume.
Great so with the volume so strong in arguably the highest margin products that you have I guess you just must have paid extraordinary cost on the freight market and I would assume Pepperidge Farm and Goldfish is a very high margin product was that also an offset because otherwise my guess is most investors are saying that this would have been a much bigger margin quarter.
I think you referenced the mix benefit and we do see and you saw it on the gross margin bridge that I reviewed so we are seeing that mix benefit.
As I said on a fixed cost per case basis we don't necessarily see that but we do see it in the mix line so I think there was 30-basis point or 40-basis point of mix benefit given the performance is stoop in some of our higher margin business relative to the balance.
That being said you know the inflation impact on dairy beef and aluminum and freight is about half of that gross margin miss you know and the other half is the supply chain related costs which you know are not insignificant and did hurt our gross margin performance in the first quarter.
All right I will respect the time.
I will pass it on and will follow-up on this Thanks.
It was 40 basis points of mix benefit.
Our next question comes from line of David Palmer with RBC Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
Hello David.
Good morning.
A big picture question about Campbell improving towards its long-term algorithm I am imagining this year that Plum will have V8.
Those are going to be areas of improvement this year and perhaps you can comment on that.
Thinking longer term one issue and I think Chris was hinting at this on his question Campbell has been improving somewhat in the meal helpers the sauces the cooking soups essentially helping the Millennials and others prepare meals and participating in that importantly in a higher margin way for Campbell Over time it is certainly believable that there could be a tipping point when these platforms again higher margin platforms for Campbell could start to sort of carry the P&amp;L to contributor revenue in a way that is not one where you are fighting the gross margins of the products that you are growing with.
Can you comment on that perhaps when you could see a tipping point like that? Thanks.
First of all I don't think I could have articulated the strategy any clearer than you did so thank you for that.
I think that as opposed to tipping point I think we are starting to see the impact of some mix exchange as these particular faster growing businesses come into the portfolio and are now captured in our organic sales.
I liken it to what we did with aseptic broth.
Once upon a time broth was a canned business and over time we introduced the aseptic cartons and cans gradually declined the aseptic cartons of broth increased at a very significant margins so we were pretty excited about that.
I think it is these other businesses that will come into the portfolio and mix accordingly but that said we are still putting a very concerted effort on our core businesses to strengthen them as well.
I guess the big question the million-dollar question is whether these sauces and helpers essentially and some sometimes it is hard for us to teas that out of your general soup numbers because some of these are cooking soups.
When those will again carry that that line item in a margin-accretive way I guess that would be for us to just wait and watch.
Yes.
I mean I think that is right.
One of the things we do know is that these types of products are attracting more affluent and younger consumer into our franchise and we are very encouraged by that.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hello Matt.
Just to drill down on one of these newer business lines I was surprised to see profitability down pretty sharply in the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment and granted one quarter but you are obviously generating strong top-line growth on Bolthouse.
Foodservice seems to be in a more stable position so is the margin contraction here during the quarter a function of the timing of investments in new products or should we think about there perhaps being Bolthouse-specific cost pressures that could persist over the course of the year or are there other factors that play just here during the quarter? Matt there was a couple of things.
Within Bolthouse the CPG business so beverages and sour dressings grew both top-line and bottom-line and within Bolthouse that has been carrots so there has been some significant inflation in there.
It is partly due to the drought so we have had higher water extraction costs and higher land cost.
We also had a higher freight cost.
We were growing up in Washington state in trucking down to California and since the first quarter that production has moved to central California so that should help a bit.
The other impact is on the Foodservice business so not in Bolthouse significant cost inflation in the Foodservice products and also some investment we are making to expand our retail fresh business so it is a combination of those things.
Okay so it is fair to say it may not be the same magnitude but some of these things directionally could continue to pressure operating profit for the next few quarters? I would expect things to get better.
Yes.
We expect improvement.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you everyone.
Our next question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everybody.
Happy Thanksgiving.
Thank you.
Hi Bryan same to you.
You know I just wanted to ask a question about M&amp;A.
Denise we are now a couple of years into this current strategy and you have been very articulate and clear about where the M&amp;A targets are but at the same time there is two things that probably shifted more in the last three years.
One has been the trend towards or the size of the impact on health and wellness has become I guess more pronounced and larger in the U.S.
Then also international especially developing and emerging markets at least right now have slowed and I think there is a lot of mixed opinions in terms of when it turns and how it turns and where it turns.
Can you just talk a little bit about how you have looked at those dynamics changing and if at all it begins to have you kind of refocus or adjust at all your lens for where you are looking to do acquisitions? Yes.
We said previously that some acquisition may be required to further diversify our portfolio and we still believe that to be the case.
That said we have also said and still are very tight with this we have a very disciplined approach to how we evaluate acquisitions and the strategic fit of acquisitions into our program here.
That said we do have the financial flexibility to make a meaningful acquisition if we can find one that is a good fit and gives us the returns that we would expect to create value over time so we still are active in this space but we are being very disciplined about our approach to it.
Has there been any change in focus areas or areas we are looking? Just because the global economy has slowed things are slower in developing emerging markets and there seems to be an increased certainly appetite in the investment community but also just broadly if health and wellness related products and categories because you expand has that all changed the areas where you are looking or is it still the same basket theme proportions in terms of where you were looking? Yes.
Well if you think about the acquisitions that we have made Plum Organics and Bolthouse Farms in packaged fresh have both been we believe are very very solid plays in health and wellness and the Kelsen business was a good add for us for international expansion particularly with 40% of its sales in China and Hong Kong.
We will continue to look or target similar to those kind of acquisitions.
Then just one last one related to this just in terms of investment so rather than M&amp;A is there any more broad thoughts to just changing thinking investments organically in your own business to adjust towards simple ingredients are more health and wellness above and beyond what you have already done so something you might maybe change production processes or change ingredients.
Is that all part of sort of what you are looking at in terms of your investment dollars? Thank you.
Yes.
I think if you really look at the platforms for growth in addition to what we just discussed we have got a concerted effort on breakthrough innovation and one of platforms in breakthrough innovation is health and well being because we have got V8 veggie blends coming V8 protein bars and shakes.
We have got advances in innovation and Bolthouse Farms and Plum and we have the new Campbell organic soups coming to market so we are very active in innovation in health and wellbeing space.
Packaged fresh we just talked about and then also increasing our availability we have got an enormous opportunity in other channels outside of grocery particularly in an immediate consumption channels so we are in the process of building out that network we have put a sales team in place and we still have a lot more work to do there but that is a great expansion space for us.
All right.
Thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking the question and Happy Thanksgiving.
Hi Akshay.
Same to you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My question is on freight cost.
Can you talk a little more broadly about freight cost? A lot of companies have been mentioning that in the food space as being a headwind.
Is seems like a general industry trend that sort of snuck up on us.
Is that the case? What is your read on that? Is it sort of a transitory issue? Perhaps how long might that last? Yes.
I think it really stems from the carrier capacity situation and there is just significantly more demand than there is availability especially on the spot market so it hit us two ways this quarter.
One is just a general increase in freight rates.
The other because of our volume demand we had to exit the spot market and a higher proportion than we have done in the past.
You know what we are doing about it is you we are trying to get more committed carrier capacity in our highest volume freight lanes and that will protect us from coming to the spot market.
You may have to pay a little bit more but it gives us some protection and our supply chain group is in the process of doing it right now so it will be a negative impact but it should moderate as we go through the year here.
Thank you.
I will pass on.
Our last question please? Our final question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Sanford Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Alexia your line might be muted.
Thank you for the follow-up question.
Can I just ask about the shift into digital on both the advertising and promotional front? A number of companies have been saying that promotional spending particularly has been getting less effective of late.
I am just wondering how quickly you are shifting into digital on both advertising and promotion and how you can be confident that is giving you I guess better effectiveness as you make that shift? Thank you.
Yes.
We have been experiencing and encouraging the same shaft into digital.
We are up to about 20% of our spending and digital.
What happens is it is the production cost of digital are less but you need to produce more content so there is a bit of an offset there.
Yes you could see non working come down because of the price of producing in digital but then again it is a different kind of production and making sure that content is fresh and works on multiple screens sizes but we do believe that the shift will continue.
This is the way to connect with the next generation of consumers.
We still do have a significant portion of our spend in T.V.
because of our large baby boomer population that still watches TV as their major media.
Thank you very much.
I will pass it on.
Thanks Alexia and thanks all of our callers for those questions Happy Thanksgiving from all of us at Campbell.
Thank you for joining our first quarter earnings call.
A full replay will be available about two hours after the call concludes.
Go online to get it or call 703-925-2533.
The access code is 1647199.
You have until December 9<sup>th</sup> the night at which we will move our earnings call strictly to the website investor.campbellsoupcompany.com under News &amp; Events.
Then click on Recent Webcasts &amp; Presentations.
Our next earnings call is February 25<sup>th</sup> the week following the Consumer Analyst Group of New York event and our CAGNY presentation and luncheon is confirmed for Wednesday the 18<sup>th</sup> of February.
If you have further questions call me Jennifer Driscoll at 856-342-6081.
If you are reporter who has questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at (856) 342-3737.
We now conclude today's program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Jennifer Driscoll Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thanks Kate.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the second quarter earnings call for Campbell Soup's Fiscal 2015.
With me here in New Jersey are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Anthony DiSilvestro Chief Financial Officer; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
This call is open to the media who'll participate in listen-only mode.
Today we will make forward-looking statements which reflect our current expectations.
These statements rely on assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to risk.
Please refer to our slide or to our SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
While in the current quarter we had no items affecting comparability our comparisons of fiscal 2015 with fiscal 2014 will exclude previously-announced items.
Also our fiscal 2015 guidance is on a 52 week to 52 week adjusted basis to a 53 weeks last year.
Because we use non-GAAP measures we've provided in our appendix a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
And with that let me turn the call over to Denise Morrison.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Jennifer and good morning everyone.
Today I will share my perspective on our second quarter and first half performance our plans for the remainder of the year and finally our initiative to create a new enterprise structure while driving significant cost savings over the next three years.
Our CFO Anthony DiSilvestro will discuss our financial performance and segment results in greater detail and then we'll have time for your questions.
My perspective about the second quarter is highly influenced by some of the factors we shared with you during our first quarter call.
As a reminder we had strong first quarter with organic net sales up 5% adjusted EBIT up 9% and adjusted EPS up 12%.
Recall that in quarter one we experienced higher input costs than expected and this situation continued into quarter two.
We started the year with a stronger seasonal sell-in.
We also had more holiday promotion activity ship in quarter one because of the timing of our quarter and relative to Thanksgiving.
This shift drove sales growth in Campbell's condensed soups Swanson broth and our Pepperidge Farm stuffing businesses ahead of consumption.
The strong first quarter put pressure on our supply chain to maintain acceptable customer service levels.
To serve our customers we ran our plants overtime and shipped product from all over our network to meet the increased demand.
We also increased our use of spot market transportation which resulted in higher rates in a constrained market and fueled additional cost.
These supply chain issues continued into the second quarter as we made the decision to incur additional expenses to improve our customer service levels.
With this as background let me now offer my perspective on our second quarter results.
Our organic sales performance was comparable to year-ago.
In the quarter declines in U.S.
Soup were impacted by quarter one sales growth which benefited from movements in retailer inventory levels and the timing of quarter end relative to the Thanksgiving holiday.
This had an expected adverse impact on Q2 soup sales.
In the quarter we delivered positive sales growth in our large U.S.
sauce brands Prego and Pace as well as in Plum Organics baby food in the CPG portion of Bolthouse Farms beverages and salad dressings and in our Foodservice business.
I was pleased with our Global Baking and Snacking business which delivered solid organic top line growth as well as strong bottom line growth with contributions from both Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm.
I was not satisfied with the performance of the U.S.
Beverage business.
Sales of our V8 V-Fusion franchise declined while V8 Splash and V8 + Energy performed well in the quarter.
In January we started shipping our new V8 Veggie Blends which have been well received by our customers.
Our biggest disappointment in the quarter was our gross margin performance.
As I mentioned previously we continued to face persistent challenges with increased inflation and cost pressure in logistics including higher transportation and warehousing costs and the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar on the input costs of our international businesses.
Despite our efforts to reduce expenses we posted a double-digit EBIT decline greater than we anticipated.
Anthony will discuss our gross margin performance and outlook in much greater detail in a few minutes.
As a reminder at the close of our first quarter we told you that we didn't expect our performance in the fiscal 2015 to be evenly distributed across quarters.
As a result we said at that time that evaluating our business performance on a first half basis rather than a quarterly basis would be more meaningful.
We still believe a first half view gives the most informative picture of the business.
Turning to our first half performance organic sales increased plus 2%.
For the half four of our five reporting segments achieved organic sales growth with gains in U.S.
Simple Meals including steady sales in U.S.
Soup.
We posted positive organic sales in Global Baking and Snacking Bolthouse Farms and Foodservice and International Simple Meals.
Sales of U.S.
Beverages declined.
It is important to note that our recent acquisitions Plum and the CPG portion of Bolthouse Farms posted double digit sales gains for the half and Kelsen biscuit sales increased as well.
For the half our gross margin was under pressure with the continuation of the input costs that were higher than anticipated and the supply chain issues that I previously discussed.
Turning now to the back half we plan to focus on fewer bigger innovation platforms across our portfolio.
As discussed at CAGNY last week we believe this approach will have a more significant impact on the top line and reduce complexity in our supply chain.
In the back half we will continue to ramp up our health and wellbeing platform across our business.
Our health and wellbeing platform includes new Campbell's organic soup and the continued expansion of our Healthy Request line of soups.
We're increasing the distribution of new V8 Veggie Blend juices for affordable mainstream juicing and V8 Protein Bars and Shakes which are expanding the brand into adult on the go nutrition.
In the Packaged Fresh category this spring we're launching 1915 by Bolthouse Farms a new cold pressed ultra premium organic juice.
We will continue to expand Bolthouse Farms kids fresh beverages veggie and fruit snack tubes and carrot veggie snackers in the produce section.
And we also have spring flavor innovations in place for super premium fresh beverages including an on-trend blueberry banana almond milk variety and new varieties of salad dressings.
In Simple Meals we will introduce a range of premium and convenience platforms including the expansion of our dinner sauces line with the addition of grilling sauces.
We're also preparing for the launch of Campbell's Fresh-Brewed Soup and K-Cup.
Our joint development project with Keurig Green Mountain.
And finally we will introduce Prego and Pace ready meals in convenient on-the-go microwavable pouches.
We've also taken actions to address the supply chain issues that are within our control.
For instance we are making significant improvements to our freight and transportation management while our service level to customers and cost management is improving.
We're taking steps to increase net price realization on our core business.
We believe that these steps will help our gross margin performance improve starting in the third quarter.
And finally we're managing SG&amp;A and other costs aggressively across a number of areas such as travel and hiring.
Even with these efforts we don't expect to offset the full impact of the margin pressures that we experienced in the first half.
We recognize the challenging environment that we and our peers are operating in particularly in center store categories.
Consumer behavior and their preferences with respect to food are changing.
There are many seismic shifts impacting our industry which I discussed last week at CAGNY.
We're taking these shifts into consideration as we pursue our dual mandate to strengthen our core business while at the same time to expand into faster-growing spaces.
We recently announced a new enterprise structure to better align our organization to deliver on our strategy.
After considerable thought and planning we are reorganizing our company to unlock greater value from our people brands and assets.
This work is under way and will ramp up in the back half.
We expect the creation of our three new divisions: Americas Simple Meals and Beverages Global Biscuits and Snacks and Packaged Fresh coupled with our efforts to simplify our organization structure will result in streamlined operations better execution and improved financial results over time all while delivering fewer bigger product innovations that will delight consumers.
As we implement this leaner and flatter organization structure we're also adopting zero-based budgeting in fiscal 2016 to drive cost savings and to instill new cost discipline at Campbell.
Together we expect these initiatives to ramp up to annual cost savings of $200 million-plus over a three-year period.
This is a difficult time across the food industry.
While we have made solid progress at Campbell's over the past 3.5 years to reshape our portfolio it has not been enough.
We're making necessary changes at our company changes to the way we organize and manage our business and changes to the way we allocate resources and assets while managing costs to fund our growth.
Simply put we are taking more aggressive action on multiple fronts while staying resolutely focused on the consumer to change the growth trajectory of our business.
Thank you and now I will turn the call over to Anthony DiSilvestro.
Thanks Denise and good morning.
Before getting into the details I wanted to give my perspective on our second quarter performance and revised 2015 guidance.
First we are pleased with our overall sales performance.
Organic sales following 5% growth in the first quarter were flat in the second quarter with the first half now at plus 2%.
Our updated sales guidance reflects an increased headwind from currency.
Excluding currency our sales outlook remains unchanged from our previous 2015 guidance.
However reflecting disappointing gross margin performance second quarter EBIT was down 17% and below our expectations.
I'll discuss the details of our gross margin performance shortly.
Importantly for the balance of the year we expect to see improved gross margin performance as inflation and supply chain headwinds moderate and we take actions to improve our net price realization.
As we announced on February 12 given our second quarter performance and revised outlook for the balance of the year including the impact of currency translation we lowered our full-year guidance.
Now I'll take you through our second quarter results segment highlights and then review the guidance.
For the second quarter net sales on an as-reported basis declined by 2% to $2 234 million due to the negative impact of currency translation.
Organic net sales were comparable to the prior year as gains in both our Global Baking and Snacking and our Bolthouse Farms and Foodservice segments were primarily offset by declines in U.S.
Simple Meals and U.S.
Beverages.
Following a strong first quarter sales in the second quarter were negatively impacted by movements in retailer inventory levels including earlier holiday shipments that benefited the prior quarter.
With these timing related items now behind us first half reported sales increased 1% with organic sales gaining 2%.
Adjusted EBIT in the quarter fell 17% due to a lower gross margin percentage and unfavorable currency partly offset by reductions in marketing spending.
For the first half adjusted EBIT declined 4% as the negative impact of a lower gross margin percentage and currency were partly offset by volume gains and lower marketing and administrative expenses.
Reflecting lower interest expense and a lower tax rate adjusted earnings per share decreased 13% to $0.66 in the quarter.
At $1.40 for the first half adjusted EPS is down 1%.
Decomposing our sales performance favorable volume mix contributed one point to sales growth.
Gains in volume mix in the Global Baking and Snacking and Bolthouse and Foodservice segments were partly offset by declines in U.S.
Simple Meals the segment most impacted by the inventory and holiday shipment timing between the first and second quarters.
Higher selling prices primarily in Global Baking and Snacking added 1 point of growth.
Overall increased promotional spending lowered sales by 2 percentage points.
The pressure came largely from the Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Simple Meals segments.
Currency reduced sales by 2 points as our two primary foreign currencies the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar both weakened further against the U.S.
dollar.
Here's our gross margin bridge for the second quarter.
Our gross margin declined by about 3 points in the quarter compared to the prior year.
First cost inflation and other factors had a negative margin impact of 3.6 points.
About two-thirds of this was cost inflation which as a rate increased by approximately 4% reflecting continuing increases in meat tomatoes dairy steel cans and chocolate and includes the negative impact of mark to market losses on open commodity hedging contracts.
While inflation was slightly higher in the quarter than anticipated we expect inflation to moderate in the back half.
The remaining third came from our supply chain where we experienced increases in manufacturing costs in freight and distribution and from the impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar on the input costs of our international businesses.
I'll comment further on the first two.
Our manufacturing costs are higher as we've temporarily increased the use of co-packers to meet short-term demand and from an equipment outage in one of our major plants.
On freight and distribution to meet our customer service levels we've incurred higher transportation costs based both on our usage and rates the impact of which we've seen moderate during the quarter.
Looking ahead to next year our investments in soup common platform broth capacity and changes in our committed freight capacity should mitigate the impact of these factors.
Promotional spending negatively impacted gross margin by 100 basis points primarily due to higher spending in the Baking and Snacking segment and while volumes increased in the segment trade had a negative impact on margin.
Higher selling prices primarily in Baking and Snacking added 40 basis points.
Lastly we continued to drive meaningful productivity gains in our supply chain which contributed 130 basis points of improvement.
As I'll discuss in connection with the guidance we expect that our gross margins will expand slightly in the second half.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased 10% in the quarter reflecting reductions in advertising in U.S.
Simple Meals and Pepperidge Farm helping to offset some of the gross margin pressure.
Administrative expenses were down 1% as lower benefit costs cost savings from prior restructuring initiatives and the impact of currency were mostly offset by increased long-term incentive compensation costs compared to the prior year which benefited from reduction in estimated payouts.
On the topic of incentive compensation more broadly we now expect a full year 2015 headwind on incentive compensation costs of approximately $0.06 per share compared to our original estimate of $0.09 per share as we have lowered our assumption for estimated payouts on long-term and annual bonuses.
For additional perspective on our performance this chart breaks down our EPS growth between our operating performance and below the line items.
As you can see adjusted EPS declined by $0.10 per share $0.12 of which is attributable to the decline in the EBIT.
Net interest expense declined $4 million versus a year ago as we reduced our debt level and this contributed $0.01 to EPS growth in the quarter.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 27.9% down 310 basis points versus the prior year adjusted rate due to the favorable resolution of an inter-company pricing agreement between the U.S.
and Canada.
The lower tax rate in the quarter added $0.03 to EPS.
We now expect a tax rate for fiscal 2015 in the range of 30% to 31% versus our previous guidance of 31% to 32%.
Under our strategic share repurchase program we repurchased $15 million in the quarter bringing the year to date total to $100 million.
With rounding you don't see an EPS impact on the quarter.
Currency had a $0.02 impact on EPS.
For the full year and based on current spot rates we estimate currency will have a 2 point or $0.05 per share negative impact.
Now turning to our segment results sales declined in U.S.
Simple Meals by 3% primarily driven by volume declines and higher promotional spending.
U.S.
Soup sales decreased 6% following a 6 point gain in Q1 as the timing between quarters was impacted by movements in retailer inventory levels and the timing of our quarters relative to the Thanksgiving holiday.
Sales of other Simple Meals increased 6% driven by growth in Plum Prego and our dinner sauce platforms.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals declined primarily due to higher inflation and the supply chain costs I discussed earlier.
In Global Baking and Snacking 4% organic sales growth was driven by the strong performance of Arnott's.
We achieved consumption and share gains in the Australian biscuit category and Indonesia delivered another quarter of double digit sales gains.
Within Pepperidge Farm Goldfish crackers delivered strong sales gains which were partly offset by softness in frozen products.
Kelsen sales declined slightly reflecting the shift of the Chinese New Year further into our third quarter.
Global Baking and Snacking posted strong operating earnings driven by the organic sales growth and lower marketing spend.
In the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment organic growth was driven by sales gains in Foodservice and in Bolthouse premium beverages and salad dressings while Bolthouse Farms carrot and natural ingredient sales declined.
The decline in operating earnings was primarily driven by a lower gross margin percentage and higher administrative expenses as the prior year benefited from a reduction in long-term incentive compensation accruals.
The decline in gross margin percentage reflects higher carrot costs including the impact of adverse weather.
International Simple Meals and Beverages organic sales declined 2% with lower sales in Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region.
Sales in Canada were comparable to the prior year following a very strong first quarter.
Declines in operating earnings were due to cost inflation.
The adverse impact of currency on input costs and the negative impact in currency translation.
U.S.
Beverage sales fell 4% as declines in V8 V-Fusion more than offset gains in V8 Splash.
Operating earnings declined primarily due to higher promotional spending including new an item introduction cost cost inflation and increased supply chain costs.
For the first half I want to focus your attention specifically on the performance of the U.S.
Simple Meals segment.
With the timing shift in Q1 and Q2 now behind us U.S.
Simple Meals sales increased 2% for the half driven by volume gains in the segment.
U.S.
Soup sales were comparable to the prior year while sales of other Simple Meals increased 10% driven by growth in Plum Prego and our dinner sauce platform.
Operating earnings declined 3% reflecting cost inflation and higher supplier chain cost partly offset by productivity improvements lower marketing expenses sales gains and the benefit of lapping the Plum recall in the prior year.
For the remaining segments the results for the half were similar to those of the second quarter.
Within U.S.
Soup 6% lower sales in the second quarter was due to declines in condensed and Swanson broth which were impacted by the timing of shipments between first and second quarters while ready-to-serve soup sales were comparable to the prior year.
While our soup sales decreased 6% consumer take-away in measured channels for the comparable 13-week period ending February 1 declined 1%.
For the first half as shown at the bottom of the chart soup sales in aggregate were comparable to the prior year as a 3% decline in condensed was offset by 7% growth in broth with ready-to-serve sales comparable to the prior year.
We ended the quarter with retailer inventory positions comparable to the prior year.
Here's a look at U.S.
wet soup category performance and our share results as measured by IRI.
For the 52-week period ending February 1 2015 the category as a whole declined 1.2%.
Our sales in measured channels declined 1.9% with weakness in condensed and ready-to-serve partly offset by strength in broth.
Our share declined 50 basis points in the last 52 weeks and has been relatively stable over the past two years.
All other branded players collectively had a share of 28% with gains driven by smaller players.
Private label also grew share finishing at 13%.
We had strong cash flow performance in the first half as cash from operations increased by $221 million to $584 million as we've wrapped the taxes paid in 2014 on the divestiture of the European Simple Meals business and due to lower working capital requirements and pension contributions in 2015.
Capital expenditures increased to $143 million.
We continued to expect capital expenditures of about $400 million for the year as we increase capacity to support growth in our faster growing businesses.
We paid dividends totaling $199 million reflecting our current quarterly dividend rate of $0.312 per share.
In aggregate we repurchased $133 million of shares in the half $100 million of which were under our strategic share repurchase program.
The balance of the repurchases were made to offset dilution from equity based compensation.
Based on our current plans we anticipate making strategic share repurchases at this pace on average for the balance of the year.
Net debt declined by approximately $200 million to $3.7 billion.
Now I'll step through our 2015 guidance which is consistent with our news release on February 12.
As a reminder growth rates are based off a 52-week adjusted fiscal 2014 base.
Beginning with net sales we expect changes in net sales to be in the range of minus 1% to plus 4% including a currency headwind of 2 points.
Excluding currency our sales outlook is unchanged from our previous guidance.
We expect adjusted EBIT to decline between minus 7% and minus 5% reflecting weaker than anticipated gross margin performance.
While first half performance has been impacted by inflation supply chain costs and currency we expect improved year-on-year performance in the back half as inflation and as supply chain impacts moderate as we exit the season and we realize the benefit of several list price increases and promotional spending reductions which are now in the marketplace.
For the full year we forecast that our gross margin percentage will decline by approximately 1 point.
At EPS and reflecting a tax rate in the range of 30% to 31% and interest expense slightly below the prior year we expect adjusted EPS to decline between minus 5% and minus 3%.
A range of $2.32 to $2.38.
In terms of quarters directionally we expect a relatively weak third quarter followed by a stronger Q4.
As we discussed at the CAGNY conference last week we have launched a major cost reduction initiative targeting a $200 million-plus annual cost opportunity by adopting a zero-based budgeting approach.
While we expect to deliver savings beginning in our fiscal 2016 we do not anticipate a material impact on our 2015 results.
As we said last week we are in the early stages and will have more to say about the initiative and impact on our performance as we make progress.
That concludes my remarks and now I'll turn it back to Jennifer for Q&amp;A.
Thank you Anthony.
Kate we will now start our Q&amp;A session.
Our audience we'd ask you that since we have limited time please ask only one question at a time.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from the line of Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Chris.
Good morning.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
I just have two quick questions.
I'm sorry; you said keep it to one.
Let me just do it in one then and really just focus on the gross margin.
Anthony can you give more color around the increase in transportation costs? Like some of the unique factors that led to the weaker gross margin performance in the quarter.
I know you talked about these in some overall detail but I'm just curious how much incremental say transportation costs were.
Is that one of the big drivers of the weaker gross margin performance? Sure as I said in my remarks if you look at the gross margin bridge we had cost and inflation other factors of 3.6 points.
About a third of that is the supply chain issue and the largest single one within there is freight and distribution.
And as Denise mentioned we have prioritized maintaining our customer service levels over some incremental costs.
So what that's resulted in is some more inter-plant shipments less use of intermodal and higher utilization of the spot market at a time when carrier capacity has been constrained and the rates have been higher.
So those three things are really the primary drivers of the costs in freight and distribution.
Those which are a pretty significant part of the supply chain costs that we've been talking about.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then would input costs be like the remainder or the vast majority of the remainder of the incremental gross margin weakness in the quarter? Well when you talk about year over year performance inflation is the single largest factor.
So two-thirds of that 3.6 points decline is inflation.
Things like meats and tomatoes and chocolate and dairy are all increasing double digits.
Steel cans is single digits and made worse by mark to market on some diesel hedges that we had that were under water in the quarter.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good morning folks.
Hi.
Good morning.
Hi.
Good morning.
I guess I will ask more of a philosophical question on marketing.
It's sort of surprising to see your marketing spend continue to shrink.
I was just looking through it in the first half; it's now down to 25% from where it was 10 years ago.
And your sales continue to suffer.
How should we think about marketing on a go-forward? Are we in an environment or a world now where advertising spend the deflationary pressure on the efficiency of digital has enabled us to be at a point where we can continue to trim it? Or do you still believe that marketing is a very important driver of top-line growth? And as we think about the go-forward at Campbell should we be expecting and modeling for a degree of reinvestment in marketing on a go-forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jason we do try and keep total advertising consumer and trade at about 25% of sales.
In the first half our soup advertising was not cut.
What we are lapping is the launch of Prego white sauces and dinner sauces so the advertising spend in the simple meal portion was down and also lower advertising on U.S.
Beverages as we chose to spend more on that in the back half against the introduction of the V8 Veggie Blends.
The other thing that we did was in the biscuit business we did have a higher trade on Pepperidge Farm as we drove more merchandising in particularly the second quarter and in Arnott's we had a price increase and we did spend trade to make sure we protected promoted prices in the marketplace.
The other thing that affected trade was soup the launch of our new organic soup and also the launch of Veggie Blends where we put new distribution funds in place on those two businesses.
Going forward we absolutely believe that advertising is a solid grower of top line as is consumer and as we work through our new divisions and their portfolio roles we will be making sure that we're allocating those investments to the places that have the greatest profitable growth opportunity for us.
Just to add to Denise's comments as we look to the $200 million cost opportunity we believe some of that can come from our non-working or discretionary marketing spend so we'll be looking at that area pretty closely.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And we'll be able to make that distinction.
Okay.
I'm going to try to cheat and squeeze in one quick follow-up.
You talked on looking at spend as an entire bucket inclusive of trade spend.
Your promo line has been moving higher; I should say as a contra-revenue indicator moving lower for eight years.
And you're now citing gross margin disappointment on sort of the net price realization.
So clearly it's a problem the degree of trade spend and the lack of efficiency on it.
How do you address that? And after eight years of putting more money in is it really feasible to imagine you'd be able to pull money out and get a net benefit on that in the go-forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes we've been doing quite a bit of analytics on our trade performance in the marketplace and on the appropriate pricing.
So we've been able to really understand with a new level of granularity where we've invested and the return on that investment and we will be reducing less profitable or less ROI trade in the marketplace.
That's our approach.
Yeah just to add to that in terms of our back half net price realization efforts we've announced pricing on our Simple Meals segment across 30% of the portfolio at an average of 5.7%.
So we're taking pricing on some of our Red &amp; White SKUs we're taking pricing on Prego we're taking pricing on Campbell gravy.
And we're also reducing our promotional spending in a couple of our key businesses.
I won't name those for competitive reasons but we should be seeing some moderation on trade in the back half here.
Great.
Thanks a lot guys.
I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from the line of Alexia Howard with Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hi Alexia.
Hi there.
Can you hear me? Yes.
Sure.
Perfect.
I know we focused a little bit at the conference on the overall trajectory on margins but can I just focus specifically on the soup segment? Just from looking at what's going on in the grocery stores there seems to be a shift into newer products that are in cartons and other new packaging formats not necessarily the cans.
And Campbell's is obviously joining this trend with the organic soups (36:46) and so on.
How does that affect your margins over the long-term? In the near term I imagine using co-packers reduces the margins.
Longer-term if you were able to scale those and bring them back in house would the gross margins be comparable? And is there also margin pressure across the U.S.
Simple Meals category if the new pouched skillet and dinner sources are replacing sales of condensed soup for cooking? Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Alexia I do think that the major shift for us in terms of out of the can packaging has been in the area of premium soup which has been a place where we've expanded our Campbell's Slow Kettle in tubs our bisques in boxes and now our new organic soups which are also going into that segment.
And that segment is growing.
And that segment also commands a higher price point so we're very pleased with the margins that are in that particular segment.
That said the canned soup business is still several billion dollars and very profitable and so bringing news to the core business is also an important part of our program here.
And I think the best example I can give you in terms of margins is on the broth business.
Recall once upon a time Swanson broth was 100% in cans and over time after the introduction of the aseptic Swanson broth at a higher retail and very solid margins we've been able to manage that conversion at the pace that the consumer has taken us there.
And so we now have two very profitable offerings in that particular space.
So I hope that answers your question.
Is that a model that you can use directly in the canned soup business to migrate it over to those aseptic cartons or does the FDA prevent that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think that – again there are many consumers that continue to buy canned soup and there are some that choose to buy soup in other packages and we believe we are bringing the consumer a choice model depending upon what their preference is and we make sure that our margins are acceptable.
This is Jennifer.
I was just going to add you probably noticed our new organic soups in the cartons do have garnish.
Yes it would be great to see more of that.
So thank you very much I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from the line of Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Good morning Diane.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Diane.
Hi.
I wanted to ask about your comment on reducing the amount of innovation but making – sort of scaling it and making it more impactful.
So last summer when we came to your Analyst Day you obviously had a lot of innovation you showed us.
It seems like there's a little shift in strategy there given what's going on in the center of the store.
Can you just talk about what you envision in terms of like platform innovation? How many will we see per year? What is the bogey in terms of sales that you have to hit in order for it to be considered successful? I just want to understand a little bit better the strategic thinking behind that and how you will assess it going forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes let me take you back 3.5 years where we had no innovation pipeline on our soup and Simple Meals business and our sustainable innovation was driving about 5% of sales from new products on a rolling 3%.
Fast forward to today where we have built a pretty robust innovation pipeline in that business and our sales from – in new products introduced in the last three years now are about 11%.
We would like to get them to between 13% to 15% so we still have more work to do but we are totally in a different place.
That said we've been able to go back and look at literally the plethora of activity in that space and what we've realized is if we can cluster our innovation into fewer bigger platforms that have scale in the marketplace and can have a bigger impact that would be a better program that we are now prepared to run.
And so for example if you look at health and wellness innovation in the organic space innovation in the fresh space and innovation in vegetable nutrition are three big platforms that we believe we can build out.
In Simple Meals our whole dinner sauces with skillets oven slow cooker and now grilling can be a platform that will have a meaningful difference in the category.
And so those are two examples of how we're starting to look at it.
So is the company scaled for larger innovation platforms in fiscal 2016 or is it more fiscal 2017 where we should look for larger impactful platforms? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I believe what you'll see is us building on to the platforms that we've already initiated and coming out with new bigger ones over the next couple years.
Because we still are very committed to brand building and innovation as a way to drive sustainable profitable growth.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Thank you.
Hey Anthony I was listening to the reconciliation of gross margin and it seemed like a lot of these issues were things that you had mentioned on the first-quarter call already.
So I guess I wanted to know what was the major surprise.
Since you were already talking about spot rates and intermodal traffic in first quarter what made it worse in second quarter that you didn't expect? Yeah I would break it down into three areas.
The first was cost inflation.
So I quoted some numbers on categories earlier.
Those numbers were a little higher than frankly than we anticipated and a mark to market on diesel was a little higher than we anticipated.
The second is in this area of freight and distribution.
We talked about in the first quarter that we got a little bit behind given an early spike in demand and that continued further into the second quarter than we anticipated.
Quite frankly as we decided to prioritize keeping up on customer service over some of these incremental cost issues.
So I think it's the same factors that have just pushed into the second quarter a little bit further than we've anticipated.
And the third impact I'd point out is the dollar continuing to strengthen has had a larger impact on input costs of some of our international businesses than we anticipated.
Campbell's done a lot of work to make the supply chain more efficient.
Productivity pops up all the time as a benefit.
Are you at all concerned that maybe as you've changed your supply chain footprint that you've reduced the flexibility in the footprint at the same time and that could have led to some of these issues? Or am I just jumping to a conclusion? Well we've talked about that.
We look back at some of the actions we've taken primarily the closure of the Sacramento plant.
We achieved very significant savings from that initiative.
And I think in comparison these costs that we're seeing here are relatively minor compared to that.
We believe we understand the causes of them.
We believe we're addressing them.
We're starting to see them moderate.
And we expect the worst is behind us from here going forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah our supply chain continues to deliver about 3% in productivity every year.
And with the soup common platform and plant of the future it actually is introducing much more flexibility into the footprint to be able to manufacture products beyond the can.
Thank you Denise.
Our next question comes from the line of David Palmer with RBC.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
You mentioned condensed is down a few percent.
If you break down condensed between eating soups and cooking soups what are the trends in each? And if you want to extend it back a couple quarters to make it even please go for it.
And what is the percentage of the breakdown between eating and cooking soups currently in condensed? Thanks.
Yeah they're about equal weight.
I think the way to answer the question is: Longer term we've seen relatively better performance out of cooking soups than eating soups.
Cooking soups being more on trend with consumer behaviors around obviously cooking and recipes.
While the eating soups given all the activity in ready-to-serve there's been some migration from eating soups to ready-to-serve soups and I think that's been the primary factor over the longer term negatively impacting condensed eating varieties.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah and I would just add that the three icons still remain very strong in condensed soup and where we've seen the impact is in the other eating with the interaction with ready-to-serve.
I mean that really is the nature of the question is that you wonder if there might be a time one two three years down the road where your sauces your broths and then your cooking condensed varieties together get to a scale and they're on trend with the Millennial eating patterns that that could be a high-margin sort of savior to your growth whereas some of your other growth areas are lower margin in nature.
I wonder if you see that getting to critical scale within some time horizon.
Is that a fair question? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we tend to view the business that way.
And in fact it comes together really nicely on CampbellsKitchen.com we were able to suggest many recipes using both broth and also our cooking soups to make fresh food taste great.
And so we do see a scale play in terms of our cooking varieties.
That said we still have a very nice business in our other eating condensed as well.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Erin Lash with Morningstar.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
I was hoping you could just kind of address in line with the discussions regarding some of the innovation.
You've been quite upfront about the fact that center of the store has been struggling.
We've seen that in the numbers.
Kind of the positioning of those new products whether you think that they will drive traffic in the center of the store or positioning within the perimeter and kind of how those discussions with retailers are going.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think it's important that when you run an innovation program there has to be an acceptance that some of the innovations are going to hit and some of them are not.
And the trick is is to figure out which ones are the winners and put your money and investment behind those and figure out which ones are not and pull them away.
And I believe we have been running that kind of program.
But we've seen some very important innovation to our core business for example in pub-inspired chunky soup which has introduced a whole new line of innovation to that particular franchise.
We also were very pleased with the building of the dinner sauce platform that I talked about earlier.
Those are two examples where we've really hit the mark.
The other place too is in the premium soup.
We've been able to get 4 feet extra for premium soup in the stores which has enabled us to expand Slow Kettle and the boxed soup and also provide a home for our new Campbell organic soup.
And again as I mentioned that segment is growing nicely.
We've introduced Goldfish Puffs in the Pepperidge Farm franchise which are gluten free.
But we also introduced Jingos! a couple years back that didn't work.
So there is always going to be a mix and what we are pleased with is that we're hitting more than we're missing.
So suffice it to say most of the innovation will continued to be I guess positioned within that center of the store as opposed to the perimeter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm sorry if I gave you that impression.
We have a very robust innovation pipeline in the perimeter with our Bolthouse Farms business.
In beverages we're introducing new blueberry banana almond milk and a couple new salad dressings.
In addition to 1915 which is the ultra premium cold-pressed juice and we also have an innovation pipeline that's looking at other categories in the perimeter where we can bring Campbell's capabilities.
So there's a lot of activity going on in that space.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Good morning.
Thanks for the question.
Denise just wanted to address U.S.
Beverages for a minute.
Performance is pretty weak there and I guess it's clearly not from a lack of effort.
But at this point you've already pushed through new packaging new advertising new flavors; you've renovated with corn syrup removal and yet it seems price reductions are more of an everyday lever and without a volume response.
So what comes next? Is this just an example of a category moving away from you structurally with V8? Do you have to look outside at maybe different brands or segments at this point? Just your thoughts there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah the shelf stable juice category has been really sluggish for a couple years.
And I think that one of the big drivers is most of the juice in that category contains sugar and there's been a movement on the part of consumers to really pay attention to that.
That said we are pretty well positioned having vegetable based Beverages.
And we decided a year ago to really rethink that whole offering from V8 which is why we spent a great deal of time developing the V8 Veggie Blends gaining some expertise from our part of the business at Bolthouse Farms.
We're just getting those vegetable blends in the marketplace today but what we believe is that that will offer consumers great-tasting vegetable juice alternatives that are mainstream priced and we believe will add a jump start to our V8 business.
In addition we only have 10% of our business in single-serve whereas most beverages have about 50%.
So we are still very committed to increasing our V8 business in single-serve immediate consumption.
And with the Veggie Blends we'll have more of a breadth of line to offer our distributors in the marketplace.
Okay.
And then outside of the Veggie Blends what are your thoughts on just the core tomato franchise? Has that weakened at all at the consumer in terms of change in preferences? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The core tomato franchise has always been polarizing.
There are people who either like tomato or who don't like tomato.
And we haven't been able to offer the people that don't like tomato base a different alternative.
So we believe that tomato will still be an important part of our franchise for those who love it and we'll be able to offer other things as well.
Thanks Denise.
Our next question comes from the line of Akshay Jagdale with KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Akshay.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
This is actually Lubi on for Akshay.
I just wanted to ask about performance in Bolthouse in general.
It seems that top-line performance and maybe profitability as well in that segment has been trending somewhat below your original expectations when you first entered the sort of faster-growing packaged fresh category.
So first is that a fair characterization? And then if that is the case can you talk a little bit about what's driving the relative underperformance and how you are thinking about growth in Bolthouse longer term? Thank you.
Yeah I can take that.
I would split the business into two parts.
Think about the CPG beverages and salad dressings those businesses we're very pleased with the performance of those businesses both top and bottom-line.
Where the issue in the short-term has been and I think most of this is now behind us has been on natural ingredients and carrot costs.
As you know we went from a very unique drought situation and that raised our costs in terms of water costs water extraction costs land costs and then we went from that to four rain events within a 10-day period which also cost us on the carrot cost side.
And both of those situations have impacted our business.
The reason I said I believe it's behind us is now we've shifted our harvesting to the more southern region where they don't have the same kind of situation.
We saw improved performance in the back end of our quarter so we feel pretty good about the outlook.
The other issue we've had a little bit on the top line is we export some natural ingredients and concentrates to Japan and that business has been under pressure.
But the core business the CPG beverages and salad dressings continues to perform very very well.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
That's helpful.
I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Lazar with Barclays.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everyone.
Morning Andrew.
Inc.</span></strong> If we look at I guess gross margins today versus even a couple of years ago obviously we have seen some pretty significant erosion for various reasons that you have discussed over time.
I'm just trying to get a sense of whether you view the current level of gross margins as maybe somewhat artificially low or as really a new more reasonable base from which you try and improve going forward in light of the various reinvestment needs? You've got the gross margin mix of some of the faster growth areas put against the ZBB actions you are going to take.
And then just secondly you are taking some pricing actions even in soup you talked about.
I had always thought it was tough to take pricing sort of intra soup season.
And is it just more on the versions that you know are very inelastic that allow you to do that? Just trying to get a sense of what's changed there.
Thank you.
In terms of the first part of the question I really believe we have opportunities to improve our gross margin performance over time.
And I think when you think about the new organizational structure coupled with the portfolio role that we've assigned to each of those businesses we really do have an opportunity to improve gross margin performance both from net price realization both from a more modest inflation outlook continuing productivity improvements and the cost savings we expect to garner through our new $200 million program.
So I think there are opportunities to expand margin over time.
In terms of the pricing question I mean certainly in terms of benefit we get more benefit by enacting a pricing action ahead of the soup season but there is nothing that really prevents us from doing it at any point.
The key is to work through the timing and the impact on the promotional activity with our retailers but this was well planned out and is now in the marketplace.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jonathan Feeney with Athlos Research.
Your line is open.
Good morning thanks.
Hi Jonathan.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Jonathan.
I guess this is for Anthony.
Looking at the volume declines particularly in Simple Meals over the past few years and you mentioning your use of increased co-packing in some of the new products what would you say that maintenance capital expenditure is for this business? And maybe as part of that as we look at this new sort of segment structure and maybe some different kind of streamlining and cost savings that might allow what sort of returns on capital do you typically look at for amounts over and above that maintenance capital expenditure in your annual regular budgeting process? Thanks.
I think maybe the best way to answer the question is we expected to spend about $400 million this year on capital.
60% of which is on projects that have an economic return and those are split between capacity-adding projects and cost-reduction projects.
On the capacity-adding project we typically see pretty significant and attractive IRRs I'd say 20% plus kind of levels.
On the cost-reduction ones I'd say we do see returns certainly above the cost of capital.
It's kind of hard to come up with one kind of IRR for them they kind of range but I think we have a very successful track record of achieving good returns on those cost reduction projects.
I got you but if your business just in a weird alternate universe didn't grow volume at all and everything stayed exactly the same from year to year you are saying about 40% of your capital expenditure would be required to sort of just – doesn't have an economic return just sort of maintains economic returns where they are.
Did I hear that right? Yes you did.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Sure.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Katzman with Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning everybody.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess maybe I will follow up on Andrew's question around pricing.
Is this kind of a signal of for lack of a better phrase treating some of the Simple Meals in the new division and maybe the relative share targets? Is one way to interpret this that it is again kind of lack of a better term but a cash cow? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Not intended to be Eric.
I mean when you take a step back the pricing action was only on 25% of our U.S.
retail portfolio based on gross sales but across our entire portfolio it equates to about 1.4%.
And we were very surgical about where we priced and so it was predominantly on Red &amp; White condensed on Prego and on Campbell gravy.
So the other place where we are constantly looking to is where we've spent promotional activity and didn't get the returns on that activity.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We don't read any more into it than that.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just as a follow-up Anthony.
I remember there was a lot of confusion in the first quarter about how you account for fixed cost absorption and I'm kind of asking that question with regard to the second quarter and the gross margin weakness.
And kind of these third – it's not like your volume was really all that bad in the scheme of things.
And so I guess were you actually kind of looking for volume in the quarter to be down and then volume was better than you thought and then you had to go out into the market to buy the spot freight rates and...? Or was it again having to do something with how you account for those fixed costs as you go through the year? Yeah trying not to complicate this too much but it's actually a little bit of both right? The whole area of inventory and inventory management gets really complex when you think about SKU and location and our multiple distribution points and the fact that we got a little bit behind and had to catch up.
And that takes a little bit of time in season when you're running pretty close to flat-out inside of these plants.
So we had to run a little more overtime.
We had to use co-packers more.
That's more of a broth idea than a can idea.
Separate from that in this whole area of fixed costs it's not the major impact but our sales came down a little bit inside our own range and that had a slight negative impact on fixed cost absorption both in the quarter and in our outlook for the year but it wasn't a significant impact.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
I'll pass it on.
We have time for one more question.
And our final question comes from the line of David Driscoll with Citi Research.
Your line is open.
Hi David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi good morning.
And thanks for getting me in.
Kind of two points that I just wanted to clear up and then a very short question; the first one is just on the guidance.
So if I understand it right the previous gross margin guidance was minus 50 to basis points minus 100 basis points.
Today you are guiding to down 100 basis points so at the low end of the previously-discussed guidance on gross margins.
Tax rate is lower.
So Anthony what is the change in the guidance then on EPS? It looks like it's all between gross profits and EBIT everything in the SG&amp;A line.
What's changing there if I've said everything correctly? Between EBIT and EPS a couple of changes.
One is we took the tax rate down a bit.
We also expect interest expense to be favorable to our original assumption so down slightly year on year.
And then within EBIT I would say there's three things happening.
The primary issue is the gross margin performance and that's a combination of the freight and distribution that we've been talking about.
The manufacturing costs that we've been talking about the use of co-packers.
We had a slight impact from an equipment outage at one of our plants and from a stronger U.S.
dollar that impact on the input costs of some of our international businesses.
The second area is currency translation so we went from about 1 point of negative impact to 2 points and about a nickel impact at EPS now for the year.
And the third I mentioned a moment ago is a slight sales reduction within our range which had some impact on gross margin dollars more so than percentage.
So I'd say those are the three primary things above EBIT and then below EBIT the tax rate and interest expense.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> But just to be super clear on this because I think that you still -- I'm not saying it or you're not saying it the same way.
Gross margins were previously forecasted down 50 basis points to 100 basis points and today you are saying down 100 basis points so it's still within the range that you said last call yet your EPS guidance is down $0.10 to $0.12.
It doesn't make sense to me when you say all these factors because that would be inclusive of what you said three months ago.
Yeah I'd say in hand sight that gross margin range of 50 basis points to 100 basis points was probably a bit too wide.
And we were closer to the 50 basis points than the 100 basis points.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> All right that's what I was looking for.
On the service issues Denise just a question here to follow-up on what Moskow said earlier.
It does seem like all of this is related to just planning issues.
So I mean intermodal transport everything just seems to be related to forecasting out what you had to ship in this period of time.
And that forecasting doesn't go well and hence it causes a domino effect across your supply chain that increases costs.
Is that just kind of fundamentally the root cause analysis as to what happened? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think that's part of it David but literally having the one less plant in our system having a much more expensive spot market and making sure that we were – we got out of the gate with a huge back to school program that put some pressure on our forecast it was above what we had anticipated.
So there was a combination of a lot of things coming together and we got behind.
And then we made the conscious decision to make sure that we were delivering for our customers and I still would have made that same decision.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Last little thing for me was just on winter temperatures and soup sales.
In our latest 12 weeks of Nielsen retail data which I think is easier to understand than maybe your shipment patterns this year the retail data looks pretty soft in soup and yet the winter temperatures have been pretty cold.
So I was just curious if you had a thought as to kind of why that's happening what's driving the reduction in consumption.
Because I think it's both a sales and a volume issue according to our Nielsen data.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah our consumption is down about 1% and it's pretty much in line with center store categories.
So...
It's really difficult for us to tease out the temperature and the winter impact from our overall performance.
And it was cold last year too.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
I just wanted to get your sense of it.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Thanks everyone for joining us for our second quarter earnings call and webcast.
A full replay will be available about two hours after our call concludes here by going online or call 1-703-925-2533.
The access code is 1650012.
You have until March 11th at midnight.
At which point we move our earnings call strictly to the website investor.campbellsoupcompany.com under News and Events.
Just click on Recent Webcasts and Presentations.
We hope you can join us for our next earnings conference call on Friday May 22 2015.
If you have further questions please call me Jennifer Driscoll at 856-342-6081.
If you are a reporter please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at 856-342-3737.
Our call has now ended.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup third quarter 2015 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Jennifer Driscoll Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Candice and good morning everyone.
Welcome to the third quarter earnings call for Campbell Soup's fiscal 2015.
With me here in New Jersey are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Anthony DiSilvestro CFO; and Anna Choi Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
The call is open to the media who participate in listen-only mode.
Today we'll be making forward-looking statements which reflect our current expectations.
These statements rely on assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to risk.
Please refer to slide two in our presentation or to our SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements.
In the third quarter the company incurred charges associated with our recently announced initiatives to implement a new enterprise design that better aligns with our strategy reduces cost and streamlines organizational structure.
The company commenced a voluntary separation program and recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $9 million related to the program for severance and benefit related costs.
The company also recorded pre-tax charges of $9 million in administrative expenses related to the implementation of these initiatives.
The aggregate after tax impact of the restructuring charges and implementation cost was $11 million or $0.04 per share.
Our comparisons of fiscal 2015 with 2014 will exclude those items impacting comparability.
Because we used non-GAAP measures we've provided a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure which is included in our appendix.
Before we begin our discussion of the quarter I'd like to cordially invite our sell-side analysts and institutional investors to our annual investor day at Campbell's World Headquarters.
RSVP's are required.
Campbell vendors and all others are invited to join by webcast.
This year's event will be held the afternoon of Wednesday July 22.
We plan to make it a very informative day for you featuring presentations by Denise Morrison Anthony DiSilvestro and our three divisional presidents.
We'll include updates on our plans for the company the three divisions and our cost savings programs and will also allow plenty of time for interacting with management.
So with that let me turn the call over to Denise Morrison.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Jennifer.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our third quarter call.
A great deal has transpired since we last spoke in February both at Campbell and in the marketplace.
So I believe it's worthwhile to spend time on both topics today.
I will share my perspective on the third quarter and then comment on the broader state of the consumer and events in the food industry since our last earnings call.
I'll also provide an update on the progress we made since last quarter in our strategic enterprise redesign which we discussed in February.
Overall I am pleased with our results this quarter especially the improvement in our gross margin.
While sales declined in the quarter this was primarily due to unfavorable currency and the impact of retailer inventory movements on our U.S.
soup business.
Organic net sales declined by 1%.
Importantly gross margin improved as we took several actions to address the declines in the first half and adjusted EBIT and EPS were better than expected.
In U.S.
Simple Meals U.S.
soup sales were below our expectations declining 10%.
Consumption and market share remained relatively stable.
The gap between consumption and sales performance was primarily due to significant unfavorable inventory movements by retailers.
Our analysis suggests that this was largely a result of our reduction in trade spending and merchandising as compared to the prior-year quarter.
Last year promotions did not generate the anticipated lifts.
Therefore reducing our spending was the right thing to do.
In doing so we expected consumption and shipments to be down with retailer inventories relatively stable.
In fact consumption was actually better than we expected but retailer inventory declines exceeded our expectations and are now below prior-year levels.
Consequently sales were below expectations.
Within our soup portfolio we are encouraged by the performance of our premium offerings.
Slow Kettle continues to perform well and our new Campbell organic soups achieved solid distribution gains.
Soups for easy cooking are below expectation.
Looking ahead we will begin shipping Campbell's fresh brewed soup in K-Cups in the fourth quarter.
In our other simple meals business Prego continued to perform well led by increases in white sauces and distinctive varieties.
Consumption of Campbell dinner sauces remained strong and we will be adding new grilling sauces to the platform.
Plum sales increased double digits in the quarter with both share and distribution gains.
Plum is now the clear market share leader in organic baby food in the United States.
Our shelf-stable U.S.
beverage business performed within our expectations.
While this business remains challenged the early read on V8 Veggie Blends is encouraging.
ACV distribution is on plan and trial is meeting our expectations.
Most importantly depth of repeat is strong.
V8 Protein Bars and Shakes are performing below expectations.
In Global Baking and Snacking excluding currency sales rose with solid volume gains in Australia and Indonesia.
We feel very good about the progress we've made in Asia-Pacific under the new leadership team in that market.
In the U.S.
our Pepperidge Farm business delivered sales gains in fresh bakery cookies and crackers.
Notably Goldfish sales increased 5% in the quarter.
And marketing increased across our Biscuit and Snacks business.
I'm particularly pleased that this segment's operating earnings increased 18%.
Bolthouse Farms beverages and salad dressings grew slightly.
In our premium fresh beverage business we were cycling inefficient promotions from a year ago which we did not repeat in the quarter.
Sales were also negatively impacted by a planned SKU rationalization and the introduction of fewer new items to reduce complexity.
Our decision to optimize promotional spending contributed to much stronger operating earnings for the segment.
Looking ahead our spring innovation is now in the market including our new cold pressed ultra-premium beverage line 1915 by Bolthouse Farms and the initial read has been positive setting the stage for better sales growth in beverages in the fourth quarter.
Clearly our gross margin improvement was the main reason for encouragement in the quarter.
We achieved net price realization by reducing promotional spending and taking pricing action.
So far consumer response to our pricing actions has been within our expectations.
We benefited from moderating inflation and other factors and delivered an adjusted gross margin increase of 70 basis points mitigating declines in the first half of the fiscal.
Our adjusted EBIT of $305 million and EPS of $0.62 were ahead of what we expected.
We are improving our EBIT and EPS guidance to the favorable end of our range.
Anthony will discuss our guidance in more detail in a few minutes.
Turning now to the industry dynamics this is a tumultuous time in the food industry.
We all recognize that the consumer landscape has changed dramatically driven by a number of seismic shifts.
The great recession's impact on consumer purchasing behavior Global demographic changes profound shifts in consumer preferences relative to food and the disruptive impact of digital technologies.
All of these are contributing to mounting consumer demand for greater transparency about where and how their food is made.
These shifts are converging to create a new normal for the food business.
They've produced a persistently challenging environment with significant volume pressure on mainstream food products particularly center-store categories.
As a consequence of this new normal industry participants have initiated a series of strategic actions including spinoffs consolidation acquisitions of small purpose-driven brands and aggressive cost-cutting measures.
The broad adoption of zero based budgeting has set a new bar for cost management in the industry and the recent consolidation only intensifies the situation placing even greater focus on cost management.
Campbell is focused on creating shareholder value by strengthening our core business and expanding into faster-growing spaces.
Areas of emphasis include health and well-being particularly fresh and organic foods and Biscuits and Snacks in both developed and developing markets with a focus on Asia and Latin America.
We are increasing our investment in digital marketing and connecting with consumers in line with our purpose real food that matters for life's moments.
We are doing all of this while instilling an ownership mindset that will help us aggressively manage our costs.
We've been paying close attention to the industry dynamics and strongly believe a strategy that focuses on driving growth aggressively reducing costs and reinvesting a portion of the savings in the area of our business with the greatest potential is the best way to create shareholder value over the long term.
With that as context let me update you on our strategic enterprise redesign.
Anthony DiSilvestro will update you on our major cost reduction efforts in a few moments.
We've begun to make changes in the structure of our enterprise to unlock the value of our assets eliminate barriers to growth and fulfill our dual mandate to strengthen our core business and to expand into faster-growing spaces.
These changes are absolutely essential and will enable us to fully leverage all we've learned about the key trends in the consumer customer and business environment.
We are working hard to complete the reorganization of our business operations into three principle divisions.
First Americas Simple Meals and Beverages which we will manage for moderate growth and higher profit.
Second Global Biscuits and Snacks which will help us leverage the scale of our combined Pepperidge Farm Arnott's and Kelsen businesses across developed and developing markets.
And finally our Packaged Fresh division where we will make focused investments to accelerate our growth in the Packaged Fresh category.
We've appointed the leadership teams for both Americas Simple Meals and Beverages and the Global Biscuits and Snacks division in the third quarter.
Additionally Ed Carolan has been named to the Campbell leadership team for our new Integrated Global Services Group which will include elements of finance information technology marketing services procurement and human resources.
This group will be a key step in our efforts to reduce costs and elevate operational excellence through shared services and capability-building across the enterprise.
We believe our strategic enterprise redesign inclusive of our cost-reduction efforts will be game-changing for our company and for our culture.
As we pursue our dual mandate guided by our purpose and growth agenda this represents the logical next step in our goal of shifting our center of gravity accelerating our growth trajectory and maximizing value for our shareholders.
In closing it has been a very eventful quarter for Campbell.
Amidst all the organization changes under way at the company the team remains focused on driving our performance.
It's important to remember that while our industry navigates this volatile landscape we continue to look at our business and the operating environment with clear eyes and a clear plan to make the necessary changes at Campbell's to improve our performance.
I look forward to sharing more of our strategic plans with you at our investor day on July 22.
Thank you and now I'll turn the call over to Anthony for a detailed discussion of our results.
Thanks Denise and good morning.
Before getting into the details I wanted to give my perspective on our results guidance and our cost reduction efforts.
Overall we are pleased with our results for the third quarter.
Organic sales were modestly below our expectations declining slightly which was primarily the result of movements in retailer inventory levels in the U.S.
impacting our U.S.
soup business.
Our gross margin percentage increased in the quarter helping to recover some of the declines we experienced in the first half.
Gross margin is benefiting from reductions in trade promotion spending across a number of our businesses list price increases we've taken in the marketplace and a moderating level of cost inflation and improved performance relative to the first half in the area of freight and distribution.
With one quarter remaining in the fiscal year we're narrowing our guidance ranges.
While sales are expected to be at the low end of the range benefits from our cost reduction efforts and a reduction in expected incentive compensation costs are pushing us to the favorable end of the ranges for adjusted EBIT and adjusted EPS.
As we've discussed over the next three years we plan to reduce costs by at least $200 million or 2% to 3% of annual sales.
Leveraging a zero-based approach we'll streamline our organization's structure to eliminate excess layers and target expense reductions across a number of cost categories.
In connection with our organization efforts in the quarter for certain U.S.
based employees nearing retirement; we offered a voluntary employee separation program under which most of the eligible employees who elected to participate will exit by the end of the fiscal year.
Additionally as we begin to implement a zero-based budgeting approach we are beginning to realize savings in a number of categories.
Now I'll review our results in more detail.
For the third quarter net sales on an as-reported basis declined by 4% to $1.9 billion primarily due to the negative impact of currency translation.
Excluding currency organic net sales decreased 1% as declines in U.S.
Simple Meals driven by the adverse impact of retailer inventory movements on U.S.
soup sales were partly offset by organic sales gains in our Global Baking and Snacking and international segments.
Adjusted EBIT in the quarter fell 2% due to unfavorable currency translation and increased marketing spending on a constant currency basis partly offset by improved gross margin performance.
Reflecting a lower share count from our strategic share repurchase program adjusted earnings per share of $0.62 was comparable to the prior year quarter.
For the nine month year-to-date period ending April reported sales were comparable to the prior year with organic sales gaining 1% led by our performance in Global Baking and Snacking.
Adjusted EBIT declined 4% as the negative impact of a lower gross margin percentage and currency translation were partly offset by volume gains and lower marketing and administrative expenses.
EPS of $2.02 is down 1%.
Decomposing our sales performance organic sales declined by 1% while currency translation reduced sales by 3 points.
Our two primary foreign currencies the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar both weakened against the U.S.
dollar.
Within organic sales volume mix contributed 3 points to the sales decline.
The decline was primarily related to our U.S.
Simple Meals segment.
Higher selling prices primarily in U.S.
Simple Meals and Global Baking and Snacking added 1 point of growth.
Reduced promotional spending across our four largest segments contributed 1 point to sales growth.
The most significant reductions were in U.S.
soup Pepperidge Farm and Bolthouse Farms and reflects our efforts to improve price realization across the portfolio.
As you'll see on the next chart these price realization efforts both on list price and trade promotions are contributing to improved gross margin performance in the quarter.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage increased by 70 basis points compared to the prior year.
First cost inflation and other factors had a negative margin impact of 2.4 points.
For the quarter cost inflation as a rate increased by approximately 2%.
In addition costs of products sold reflects the adverse impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar on the input costs of our international businesses.
And while we have made progress in our performance throughout the quarter particularly in the area of freight and distribution supply chain costs are above the prior year.
Due primarily to the sales decline in U.S.
soup we experienced 30 basis points of negative mix.
In aggregate our price realization actions have contributed 1.6 points of margin expansion with 70 basis points from higher selling prices primarily in U.S.
Simple Meals and Baking and Snacking and 90 basis points from lower promotional spending across four of our five reporting segments.
Lastly we continue to drive meaningful productivity gains in our supply chain which contributed 180 basis points of margin improvement.
Marketing and selling expenses decreased 2% in the quarter due to the impact of currency and lower marketing overhead expenses partly offset by an increase in advertising and consumer promotion expenses which increased by 8%.
Increased levels of advertising in Global Baking and Snacking were partly offset by reductions in U.S.
Simple Meals and U.S.
Beverages.
Adjusted administrative expenses were down 1% as spending reductions and the impact of currency were mostly offset by higher incentive compensation costs compared to the year-ago quarter.
Across both of these expense lines we are achieving benefits from our cost management efforts including our $200 million cost reduction initiatives.
For additional perspective on our performance this chart breaks down our EPS changes between our operating performance and below the line items.
As you can see adjusted EPS was comparable to the prior year.
Excluding the impact of currency growth in adjusted EBIT contributed a penny of EPS growth.
Net interest expense declined $2 million versus a year ago as we reduced our debt level.
Our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 30.3% down 40 basis points versus the prior year adjusted rate.
With rounding neither interest expense nor taxes had an EPS impact for the quarter.
Under our strategic share repurchase program we have repurchased 150 million year to date and this has added one penny to EPS in the quarter.
Currency had a $0.02 negative impact on EPS in the quarter.
We continue to estimate that currency will have a two-point or $0.05 per share negative impact for the full year.
Now turning to our segment results.
In U.S.
Simple Meals sales declined 6% driven by 10% decline in U.S.
soup sales.
While dollar consumption of soup in measured channels declined by just 1% movements in retailer inventory levels compared to the prior year drove most of the sales decline in the quarter.
The decline in soup sales reflects lower volumes partly offset by a reduction in promotional spending and higher selling prices.
Sales in other simple meals increased 2% driven by Prego pasta sauce and Plum Organics.
Operating earnings for U.S.
Simple Meals declined 16% reflecting a lower sales and a lower gross margin percentage partly offset by lower marketing.
The lower gross margin percentage includes cost inflation which was above the company average and the impact of unfavorable product mix.
Global Baking and Snacking had a strong quarter as 5% organic sales growth was driven by the performance in Arnott's biscuits with volume gains in Australia and Indonesia.
Sales gains in Pepperidge Farm were driven by growth in Goldfish crackers and fresh bakery partly offset by declines in sales of Pepperidge Farm frozen products.
Kelsen also grew sales in the quarter.
Operating earnings increased 18% driven by gains in both Pepperidge Farm and Arnott's reflecting improved gross margin performance and sales growth.
In the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment organic sales decreased 1% with sales declines in Bolthouse carrot and natural ingredients partly offset by growth in Bolthouse Farms beverages and salad dressing and North America Foodservice.
Operating earnings increased 35% on lower promotional spending in Bolthouse Farms Beverages and productivity improvements.
U.S.
beverage sales fell 2%.
Benefiting from lower marketing spending operating earnings increased by 17%.
International Simple Meals and Beverages organic sales improved 6% on gains in both the Asia-Pacific region and in Canada.
Operating earnings were comparable to the prior year as the benefit of higher organic sales was offset by the negative impact of currency translation.
For U.S.
soup sales declined by 10% in the quarter with condensed down 4% RTS down 18% and broth declining 13%.
Movements in retailer inventory levels which we believe were driven by the reduction in year-over-year promotional spending was the primary driver of the sales decline.
As I mentioned consumer take-away in measured channels for the comparable 13-week period ending May 3 declined 1% in dollars.
Year to date as shown at the bottom of the chart Soup sales declined 3% versus the prior year as a 3% decline in condensed and a 5% decline in ready-to-serve was partly offset by 2% growth in broth.
Consumer take away in measured channels for the comparable 39-week period ending May 3 also declined 1% in dollars.
We ended the quarter with retailer inventory positions below prior-year levels.
Here's a look at U.S.
wet soup category performance and our share results as measured by IRI.
For the 52-week period ending May 3 2015 the category as a whole declined 1.1%.
Our sales in measured channels declined 1.4% with weakness in ready-to-serve soups notably Homestyle partly offset by gains in broth.
Our share declined just 20 basis points in the last 52 weeks and has been relatively stable for three years.
Other branded players in aggregate had a share of 28% also declining 20 basis points while private label with a 13% share gained 40 basis points reflecting recent gains in broth.
We had strong cash flow performance in the first nine months.
Cash from operations increased by $208 million to $971 million due to lower working capital requirements wrapping the taxes paid in 2014 on the divestiture of the European Simple Meals business and lower pension contributions.
We continue to forecast that cash from operations for the full year will reach $1.1 billion.
Capital expenditures increased to $242 million.
We continue to expect capital expenditures of about $400 million for the year as we increase capacity to support growth in our faster-growing businesses.
We paid dividends totaling $297 million reflecting our current quarterly dividend rate of $0.312 per share.
In aggregate we repurchased $192 million of shares in the first nine months $150 million of which were under our strategic share repurchase program.
The balance of the repurchases were made to offset dilution from equity-based compensation.
Net debt declined by approximately $130 million to $3.6 billion.
Now I'll review our 2015 guidance.
As a reminder this guidance is based off a 52-week adjusted 2014 as shown on the chart.
Our guidance ranges also include an estimated negative impact of currency translation of two points across sales EBIT and EPS.
As we announced earlier this morning given we just have one quarter remaining we are narrowing our fiscal 2015 guidance.
For sales we expect to be closer to the low end of our minus 1% to plus 1% range.
For both adjusted EBIT and adjusted EPS we now expect to be at the favorable end of the previously announced ranges of minus 7% to minus 5% for adjusted EBIT and minus 5% to minus 3% for adjusted EPS.
The outlook in both adjusted EBIT and adjusted EPS reflects our cost management efforts including benefits from our previously announced $200 million cost reduction initiative as well as a reduction in expected incentive compensation costs.
At the end of the second quarter we said that incentive compensation represented a $0.06 per share headwind for 2013.
Based on our current outlook we are now forecasting that this impact will be approximately $0.04 per share most of which will impact our fourth quarter performance.
For the full year we continue to forecast that our gross margin percentage will decline by approximately 1 point.
The tax rate will be in the range of 30% to 31% and interest expense will be slightly below the prior year.
That concludes my remarks and now I'll turn it back to Jennifer for Q and A.
Thanks Anthony and Denise.
We'll start our Q&amp;A session.
Since we have a limited time out of fairness to other callers please ask only one question at a time.
And our first question comes from Robert Moskow of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi thank you.
I had a question about...
Hi.
Good morning.
I had a question about the promotional spending cuts.
Do you think that that could extend into fiscal 2016 as well? How much additional discipline do you expect to use in the soup franchise and others? And then just a quick one on Global Snacking.
Denise you have talked about Global Snacking for a while.
But Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm they are different brand names the packaging is different there's not a lot of crossover – that I see anyway in terms of products that are similar.
Is there additional kinds of synergies that you could see between the regions that they haven't been capturing yet? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Let me take the first one on the trade spending.
I want to go back in particularly to U.S.
soup.
And I'm going to go back to the year 2013 where we actually increased our – we were actually operating our trade at a certain rate and we had a 14% lift in sales.
In 2014 we increased that by about 3% and our sales were flat.
So our analytics suggested that that was not a good spend and there were many unproductive promotions out there that weren't doing the retailer any good or us any good.
So we course-corrected that in 2015 in the quarter and went back to the same rate we were spending in 2013.
We are still within the ACT of 25% which is our goal and that strategy really hasn't changed.
But that said we continue to be much more disciplined in our analytics on every dollar we're spending out there and the return we're getting for that and that will continue into the future.
On Arnott's and Pepperidge Farm they definitely are different.
We have been expanding the Arnott's brand beyond Australia into Southeast Asia and particularly Indonesia and also in Asia in Hong Kong.
Pepperidge Farm's been expanding more into Canada and where we are seeing the synergies is in R&amp;D.
There's a lot of sharing going on in that area but by putting the Pepperidge Farm Arnott's and Kelsen brands together in one division we expect that part of that will be a global brands team that will start to look at now that we have platforms in these countries how can we expand with the brands that we have to take advantage of that scale? So more to come on that but that's the plan.
Rob I'll just add to Denise's comment on the first part.
We're not going to comment too specifically on 2016 but we are very focused on improving our gross margin over time and we recognize part of that program has to come from net price realization and to me there are three areas we'll be looking at.
One is we'll continue to look for opportunities to improve our list price realization.
We'll continue to drive our analytics to improve the efficiency of our trade spend whether that's removing unprofitable deals or improving the profitability of others.
And we'll also look for strategic opportunities to move up our promoted price points over time.
So those three things collectively will contribute to price realization which will hopefully contribute to gross margin expansion.
Okay thank you.
Next question.
Thank you and our next question comes from Andrew Lazar of Barclays.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
Hello Andrew.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi I realize you – with respect to gross margin I guess you kept the gross margin guidance for the full year the same as previously even though the fiscal 3Q gross margin came in what seems like better than you and many investors had expected.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of – is there something that you see in the fourth quarter albeit it's a seasonally small quarter that would suggest gross margin steps back a bit or something doesn't come through quite as significantly? Or is it just – it's a small quarter and see how it plays out? Yeah Andrew I would say relative to our own expectations gross margin was only slightly better than we expected in the third quarter and that's kind of flown through to the change in guidance.
At the end of the second quarter we did anticipate and did expect to improve gross margin percentage in both the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
So we do continue to anticipate a modest improvement in gross margin percentage in the fourth quarter as well to get back to that close to that minus 1 point forecast that we gave you guys.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And Anthony are inventories at a point where they're sort of artificially low such that shipments outpace consumption going forward into next fiscal year? Or are we just at a new ongoing level of inventory that now maintains from here? That's a really challenging question to answer.
Obviously we don't control the level of retailer inventory levels.
We do see that they're down relative to last year.
And I would say if they follow their typical pattern and get close to where they were at the end of the fourth quarter last year that would imply some tailwind for us on soup sales in the fourth quarter.
But again that one is really hard for us to project.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Chris Growe of Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I just have a question for you a bit of a follow-on to Rob's question if I could which is (36:05) keeping total spending (36:12) Yeah Chris? I'm sorry.
Chris you're really cutting out.
Do you have a hand set you could use? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm on a hand set so maybe I'll requeue.
Is this any better? It still sounds – you're in and out.
Could you call back in and we'll put you back in maybe after the next one? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
Thank you.
Operator can you make sure that happens? Yes.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Matthew Grainger of Morgan Stanley.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hello Matt.
Hi.
I'll apologize in advance to Chris if I front run his question; that wasn't my intention.
Thank you.
But I wanted to ask about promotion too.
I guess Anthony and Denise I appreciate some of the progress you made during the quarter on gross margin.
But it also feels like we have gone from one extreme to the other extreme with gross margins stronger on lower promotion and higher pricing but also unwinding a lot of the progress that it felt like you were making on volumes and inciting some inventory reduction by retailers.
So I guess I think you touched on elasticity being roughly in line.
But is this really the type of volume response you expected to these promotional changes? And if so do you feel that this is the right balance going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes Matt I think that what we've been paying very close attention to is consumption and market share.
And to give you some idea of that our consumption was down 1% for the quarter.
Condensed was down 1%.
RTS was down 2%.
RTS Premium was up 28%.
Slow Kettle was up 50%.
And so we're continuing to see stability in the category and in our performance in the category.
So that's what we've been paying attention to as opposed to excess inventory driven by promotion spending or the latter effect.
Okay.
So there's nothing in the reaction to the promotional changes here in Q3 that you feel a need to change – tweak strategy in the short term? No I'd say on Soup that the consumption has actually held up a little bit better than we had anticipated given the reduction in trade promotion.
Okay.
And can I ask just a quick follow-up on inventories? Clearly a big part of that was a reaction to the changes in promotional support but there has also been some press reports pointing to individual retailers actively shifting the balance of merchandising activity away from some of the of store categories.
So just curious whether you think some of what we saw here in Q3 was more sort of broad programmatic changes at major retailers as opposed to a specific reaction to your behavior? Yeah we think it's more about what happened last year and what happened in the third quarter last year.
We increased quite significantly the amount of trade promotion in U.S.
soup.
And quite frankly it did not result in the lifts we had expected and it resulted therefore in higher inventory levels at retail.
And all we're doing is kind of wrapping that.
So this is more about what happened last year than what's happening this year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And this year we actually gained four feet of shelf space for premium soup.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks both.
Have we got Chris back? And we do have Chris Growe.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay how does this sound? Much better.
Thank you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I wish I could say was calling from a beach somewhere but I am unfortunately in my office here.
I just had a quick question; it was a bit of a follow-on to Rob's question earlier and forgive me if you answered this.
I may have missed it.
As you have reduced promotional spending but kept your overall marketing and promotional spending that pressure on the consumer it would imply that more money is going behind advertising.
Is that right? Or should that overall kind of 25% of sales start to come down as you get more efficient with your trade spending? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The 25% ACT is about the average in CPG.
So we keep that as a guardrail.
But the divisions will work with all the drivers of demand to figure the right mix for the brands that they are responsible for.
In this quarter we actually did have an increase in advertising by about 8%.
With 11% in constant currency dollars.
But that mostly went toward the Biscuit and Snacks business in both the United States and in Australia.
There was a reduction in advertising and consumer in the Simple Meals business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Does that advertising increase then more than make up for the decline in trade spending? No.
Total marketing advertising consumer and trade is down a bit in aggregate compared to last year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
If I could just ask one other follow-up as well just in relation to the new product contribution I know you are focused more on fewer bigger better if we can use that term.
I am just curious.
You had a lot of new product activity this year in 2015.
Has that been contributing strongly to revenue growth for the year? Is there any metrics you can look at like how much your revenue has come from new products this year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't know if you got that figure.
I don't have that figure in front of me.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I don't either.
I think that I can address the fewer-bigger though because we have still had a disproportionate amount of line extensions that – things like soup for easy cooking that just haven't contributed meaningfully.
And it's created some complexity in our supply chain.
So what we've been doing is really focusing on a fewer bigger platforms like the dinner sauces like the organic food like the Slow Kettle that we can build and will have a meaningful contribution.
We're going to try some things that aren't going to work.
The trick is to catch them early and move on.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you for the time.
Thank you and our next question comes from Bryan Spillane of Bank of America.
Your line is now open.
Hi Bryan.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hey Bryan.
A question about U.S.
Beverages.
In this quarter sales were only down modestly I guess year-over-year and you had pretty good profit contribution.
I understand I guess part of that is just the marketing expense was lower.
But are we closer to the point now where you feel like you've got that business stabilized? Or is that just too much of a read into this quarter? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean I call them green shoots.
Not waving the victory flag yet.
But we are again seeing really positive signs from the new V8 Veggie Blends and the impact that's having on our vegetable juice.
Our Splash business is strong.
Our single-serve business did pretty well in the quarter.
Where we've been hit is the V8 V-Fusion and we're just dealing with that one.
Thank you.
And then just one follow-up and maybe I'm not following this correctly.
But it sounds like retailers didn't buy as much soup as you thought they would have; yet the takeaway was a little bit better even in response to the promotional level.
So did retailers not buy enough soup? Like would you have sold more soup if retailers had bought more? Or is that not the right way to read it? No I wouldn't read it that way.
I think your first part of your question was right is that the consumption has held up better than we expected but the change in retailer inventory levels was more than we expected.
Okay.
Thank you.
Have a great holiday.
You too.
Thanks.
You too.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Eric Katzman of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Hi Eric.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning everybody.
I have maybe a little bit of a longer-term question then a short-term question.
Why don't we deal with the latter first the short-term? Anthony the corporate expense line was a lot lower than we had expected.
Is that a function entirely of the incentive comp or is there other stuff going on there? When you say the corporate line unallocated corporate? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah exactly within the segments.
Yeah I think what we're seeing is a relatively big benefit from our cost management efforts so earlier in the year we had put some restrictions on hiring.
We had put some restrictions on discretionary spending and then later in the year we started our $200 million cost reduction initiative and we're seeing some early benefit from that but I think you put those two things together and we're doing a bit better on the cost management side.
A lot of that's coming through the G&amp;A line.
Some of it's coming through marketing overhead and we're just seeing a little bit doing a little bit better on the cost side than we had originally anticipated.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then Denise I guess the longer-term question is at CAGNY you told us that in simple meals you are going to more of a relative top-line approach.
And in listening to your explanations today and certainly over the last couple of years there has been new product efforts and promotion and sometimes it's worked and sometimes it hasn't and that's kind of swung things around both from a sales to gross margin to profit standpoint.
And so as you implement kind of more of the simple meals or relative top-line approach and combine with ZBB I mean do you basically anticipate that division sales kind of being flat to down and profit up as promotion is just less volatile and arguably less of a negative? Maybe you can give us some initial thoughts there and I'll pass it off.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think it is fair to say that the – a couple years ago the simple meals business was in a hole and we've gotten to the point where we've gotten stability in consumption and market share over the past two years.
Now we've got to get to profitable growth.
That said that's going to be moderate based on where that category is and where it plays today.
We do anticipate margin expansion in that division as well so that's the portfolio role that Americas Simple Meals and Beverages will play.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Thanks.
Have a good weekend.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You too.
Thank you and our next question comes from John Baumgartner of Wells Fargo.
Your line is now open.
Thanks; good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning John.
Denise just wanted to come back to the beverages side for a minute.
You have been out some time now with the independent distributor model for the instant consumables.
Just wondering how that is evolving for you in terms of distributor performance opportunities to rationalize or consolidate some distributors; and just what you are seeing in terms of the returns there overall.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Are you talking about the immediate consumption business? Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Yeah we – when we moved away from the Coke distribution system we created a network of distributors that could cover the United States that was largely DSD.
Some of that worked and some of it didn't.
We course-corrected and added some broadline distributors to that network and that's working much better today.
In addition we had our Foodservice sales force responsible for managing those distributors.
We have since moved the sales effort to our retail sales force to not only motivate the distributors from a supply standpoint but also to have end-user customer coverage to create demand and we've also supplemented that with some broker support for store work.
So we believe with this more push-pull model we set ourselves up for better results.
Finally we are introducing more products in the range that distributors have to work with.
In the past they had V8 Red Juice.
They had a couple SKUs of Splash and a little bit of V8 V-Fusion.
Today they have that plus the V8 Veggie Blends in single-serve V8 energy and we have a pipeline of new products as well so we're very committed to immediate consumption.
It's only 10% of our business today and we know in a lot of beverage companies it's 50% and very profitable.
So this is worth building and being patient and doing it the right way? Thanks Denise.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Akshay Jagdale of KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi Akshay.
Hi Akshay.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
My question is on your recent acquisitions Bolthouse and Plum Organics.
If you just take a step back and – I would love to get an update on where those businesses are relative to when you bought them and what your expectations were.
On Plum Organics Kroger at a recent conference was raving about it.
I know it is relatively small as a percentage of your overall sales but seems like that one after some initial issues has really taken off.
So if you could give us an update on both of those greatly appreciate it.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I think overall we're very pleased with our acquisitions of Bolthouse Farms and Plum Organics.
We bought both of them to drive growth and they are delivering the growth.
Bolthouse Farms gets us into the Packaged Fresh category where we can continue to build and bring new capabilities to that space.
They have a great team and Plum Organics also a great team is a window to millennial parents and has taught us a lot about organic food and really different ways of connecting with the next generation of consumers.
So from a strategic standpoint and a performance standpoint we're very pleased with both of these acquisitions.
Yeah if I can just add to that to give a slightly the other side is we've seen a little bit of margin pressure in some of these businesses and are taking actions as you can see.
In Bolthouse Farms there's been a little more trade pressure and this quarter we did dial back on trade to improve the profitability so it's been a little bit of pressure on the margin there.
And in Plum we're going through a more extensive integration of some of the back and front-office operations to improve the profitability of that business going forward as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
I'll pass it on.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Alexia Howard of Bernstein.
Your line is now open.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Alexia.
Hi Alexia.
Good morning.
Okay just one quick data question and then another one.
You mentioned that the shelf space allocated to premium products had gone up by about 4 feet.
I'm assuming that's some sort of weighted average distribution metric? Is some of the inventory reduction a reduction in shelf space on your more mainstream brands? And if so how much is that reduction? And then just on the promotions there have been a lot of discussions on this call.
Do you have view as to why the promotional spending has become less effective over the last few quarters or so? Thank you very much and I'll pass it on.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
We have not had reports of reduction of shelf space on our mainstream brands.
We really believe that the inventory movements that we've talked about were movements in warehouse inventory due to buying less cases because of a reduction in promotion spending.
And then on the second part of the question.
One of the things we experienced in the quarter was we were cycling the relaunch of Campbell's Homestyle RTS where we had a huge ACT spend against that brand and obviously we did not repeat those levels of spending this time around.
Yeah I think it's important on the promotional spending if you step back in aggregate we spend somewhere around $1.5 billion on trade promotion in a year.
Overall we feel that it's an effective spend and that we're getting a return.
When we talk about the changes we're talking about this $50 million reduction.
Again it's $1.5 billion.
So we're at the edges of it and we continued to try to improve the effectiveness of that spend.
We drive our analytics to look for opportunities to reduce unprofitable trade deals.
We look for opportunities to increase the effectiveness of trade deals.
We look for opportunities to increase the promoted prices over time.
So I think we're talking about relatively minor refinements to the overall bigger program.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah year-to-date our trade spend is down a point.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
Sure.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jason English of Goldman Sachs.
Your line is now open.
Hi good morning.
Hi Jason.
Hey good morning.
Hi guys.
Thank you for letting me to ask a question.
I wanted to follow up on Alexia's question because your answer surprised me.
You said you haven't lost shelf space on your legacy products but you have gained 4 feet on premium soups.
Have you really gained 4 feet on average of shelf space for soup at retail? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's what our figures show us.
I mean we track this very very closely and that's the feedback.
What we are seeing in terms of retail data is pretty sharp velocity declines on a sales per TDP or gross distribution point metric sort of high single digit low double digit.
How sticky do you think that shelf space is? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm not sure what data you're looking at.
Nielsen data.
Okay I guess I could follow up with Jennifer on that just to get sort of clarity on the data.
Why don't I move on to one more then? It is back sort of building on Akshay's question about M&amp;A and it is more about the portfolio overall.
Over the last of years Denise you've embarked on a bit of a portfolio reconfiguration effort with some of the M&amp;A.
Are you happy with where the portfolio is today? Do you think it is the portfolio that will allow you to get back to your long-term algorithms? Or should we expect M&amp;A to remain in the forefront of your strategy as you continue to rebalance the portfolio? And if so can you give us an update in terms of what you are thinking in terms of fit size timing et cetera? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think we've made good progress in terms of the reshaping of our portfolio and pushing into faster-growing spaces with the three acquisitions that we made and with the divestiture of the Europe Simple Meals business.
I do believe that we need more M&amp;A.
Although we're very willing to be patient because deals need to create shareholder value.
And so we're very disciplined in our approach there.
All right.
Thank you very much.
I'll pass it on.
We'll take one more question.
We're coming up on the hour.
Just one more comment on the shelf space and stickiness question.
As Denise mentioned most of that gain has to do with extension of our premium offering and our Slow Kettle business is growing well above double digits in the marketplace.
So we feel really good about the velocities we're seeing on that business.
And as you know we've just launched a line of organic soups into that premium section as well.
It's still early days on the organic thing but we feel really good about the ACV distribution and shelving we've achieved to date on that one.
So we feel really good about our premium offering in Soup on shelf.
Thank you.
And our last question will come from David Driscoll of Citi Research.
Your line is now open.
Hi David.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi good morning and thanks for squeezing me in.
Just a few loose ends.
Anthony can you quantify how much of the $200 million in cost savings are to be realized this year? And then also for you can you quantify for us what you expect the incentive compensation headwind to be for F16? Yeah so let me take those one at a time.
I can't quantify specifically on the $200 million.
It gets a bit complex.
But what I can tell you that between the cost retainment efforts that we had in place before the $200 million initiative and inclusive of the $200 million initiative we've probably saved somewhere around $15 million in the quarter.
Now when we get to Analyst Day we'll try to parse that apart because we're still going through the analysis now to figure out well how much is due to the change in travel policy for example or consultant policy relative to the restrictions we had in place already on discretionary spending and head count? So it gets a bit difficult to do that.
And we'll try to do that for you when we get to Analyst Day and we'll try to give you an outlook looking ahead across the three years at what rate do we expect to realize the $200 million? On the incentive comp just to give you kind of order of magnitude.
If I take you all the way back to the beginning of the year we said that incentive compensation would be a $0.09 headwind.
Now we're saying it's a $0.04 headwind.
That nickel is still hanging out there for next year.
Probably a way to think about it.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Then just following up on the fourth-quarter expectations what drives EPS down so much given your expectation for gross margin improvement and what sounds like pretty clearly additional cost savings? Yeah let me give you a couple of components I think should help you.
The one thing to remember is that last year has the extra week right? So if you go back to the $0.49 that we reported on an adjusted basis there's $0.08 in there that we've quantified as the extra week.
The other thing we've said is that $0.04 compensation headwind all sits in the fourth quarter and there's probably another $0.01 of currency.
So there's $0.13 of decline for you year-on-year.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate the help.
Thanks to everyone and have a great holiday weekend.
You too.
Thanks David and thanks everyone for joining our third quarter earnings call and webcast.
A full replay will be available for you about two hours after the call concludes.
You can go online to see that or call 1-703-925-2533.
The access code is 1654351.
You have until June 5 2015 at midnight at which point we move our earnings call strictly to the website investor.campbellsoupcompany.com under News and Favorites.
Mark it in your favorites.
Just click on Recent Webcasts and Presentations.
If you have further questions please call me Jennifer Driscoll at 856-342-6081.
If you are a reporter with questions please call Carla Burigatto Director of External Communications at 856-342-3737.
We hope to see many of you at our Investor Day July 22nd.
That concludes today's program and you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This does conclude the program and you may all now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Campbell Soup Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to your host Ken Gosnell.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Stephanie.
Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the fourth quarter earnings call for Campbell Soup's fiscal 2015.
With me here in New Jersey are Denise Morrison President and CEO; Anthony DiSilvestro CFO; and Blake MacMinn Senior Manager of Investor Relations.
As usual we've created slides to accompany our earnings presentation.
You will find the slides posted on our website this morning at investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
The call is open to the media who participate in a listen-only mode.
Today we'll make forward-looking statements which reflect our current expectations.
These statements rely on assumptions and estimates which could be inaccurate and are subject to risks.
Please refer to our slide two or our SEC filings for a list of the factors that could cause our actual results to vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements.
Now I'd like to remind you about items impacting comparability.
As we said in this morning's news release in the fourth quarter the company incurred charges associated with its initiatives to implement a new enterprise design that better aligns with our strategies to reduce cost and to streamline organizational structure.
The company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $93 million related to the program and pretax charges of $13 million and administrative expenses related to the implementation of these initiatives.
The aggregate after tax impact of the restructuring charges and implementation cost was $0.21 per share.
Last year in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 we recorded $21 million of pretax restructuring charges and restructuring related cost.
We also recorded an additional $4 million of pretax settlement charges associated with the U.S.
Pension plan.
The aggregate after tax impact of these items was $0.06 per share.
Also as a reminder fiscal 2015 included 53 weeks with the extra week falling in the fourth quarter.
The extra week was worth an estimated $129 million in net sales $37 million in EBIT and $0.08 in EPS.
The adjusted results exclude the impact of the additional week in the prior year.
Our comparisons of the full year 2015 with 2014 will exclude previously announced items.
Because we use non-GAAP measures we have provided a reconciliation of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures which is included in our appendix.
Lastly please mark your calendars for our planned fiscal 2016 earnings dates.
We plan to release first quarter earnings on November 24 which will include the new segments and pension and post-retirement benefit accounting changes with the re-casted prior year Q1 data.
Shortly after we release our 10-Q we will release the remaining re-casted financials.
The next three earnings dates are February 25 May 20 and September 1 2016.
With that let me turn the call over to Denise.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
Welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
This morning I will offer my perspective on our performance provide a progress report on several major strategic actions we initiated in 2015 including our redesigned enterprise structure and cost savings effort and share my outlook and areas of focus for fiscal 2016.
At our Investor Day in July I described how the food industry is in a period of revolutionary change which presents both challenges and opportunities for Campbell.
The changes in the industry are being driven by several seismic shifts; new global economic realities in the U.S.
and abroad; major demographic changes and the redefinition of the American family; profound changes in consumer preferences for food with greater focus on health and wellbeing and the impact of digital technologies on marketing shopping and the growing demand for greater transparency about food.
The convergence and acceleration of these shifts are reshaping the consumer and retailer landscape.
Combined with the prevailing industry dynamics of consolidation and cost cutting these shifts are placing increased pressure on traditional center store categories and mainstream food companies.
With this as context I'll focus my remarks this morning on our performance for fiscal 2015 review the important strategic actions we initiated during the year and highlight our key drivers for fiscal 2016.
First I'll briefly comment on our fourth quarter results.
I'm pleased that we finished fiscal 2015 inline with our revised expectations.
Sales in the fourth quarter reflected the tough consumer operating environment with organic sales increasing 1%.
Three of our five segments grew organic sales in the quarter.
More importantly we made significant progress in our internal actions to address our supply chain issues related to shipping capacity and customer service.
We've also made substantial strides to improve our cost structure through our cost savings initiatives and enterprise redesign.
We've reported the largest gross margin improvement in more than six years.
Adjusted EBIT and earnings per share increased 5% in the fourth quarter.
I was particularly pleased with the fourth quarter organic sales and earnings performance in U.S.
Simple Meals as well as organic sales growth in Bolthouse and Foodservice.
In the quarter we also completed the acquisition of Garden Fresh Gourmet a fresh salsa and hummus business that will provide a platform for our further expansion in the Deli section.
Turning to our full year results; with the solid finish we delivered sales adjusted EBIT and adjusted EPS consistent with our most recent guidance.
Organic sales increased 1% with growth in four of our five reporting segments.
Adjusted EBIT was down 2% for the year and adjusted gross margin declined 70 basis points for the year within the range that we had expected.
As I look at the year I'm pleased that our management team responded to our first half cost and margin challenges in a difficult operating environment.
I am particularly encouraged with the improvement in gross margin we delivered in the back half and the fact that we posted organic sales growth in four of our five reporting segments.
However we recognize that we have more work to do.
Before Anthony provides you with a detailed review of our results I will offer my perspective on several notable items focusing on the full year.
Looking at the year within U.S.
Simple Meals the performance of our sauce business was a standout; notably Prego and Campbell’s dinner sauces.
Prego had another strong year behind the success of our white sauces and overall product superiority.
Sales of Campbell dinner sauces increased double-digits for the year.
Our strategically important Plum business drove double-digit sales growth with new products and continued distribution gains especially in the grocery channel.
In U.S.
soup consumer takeaway was relatively stable and we posted positive share performance.
For the year our Global Baking and Snacking segment performed well.
Organic sales increased 3% and operating earnings were up 5%.
I feel particularly good about the improvement in Australian biscuits as the team made significant progress in this important core business.
In Southeast Asia our Indonesia business delivered another year of double-digit growth but sales declined in the fourth quarter as a result of worsening economic conditions in this market which we expect to persist.
We had another year of decline in shelf-stable U.S.
beverages.
While the category remains challenged the underlining trends of our business are beginning to show signs of improvement.
Consumer takeaway and share increased in the fourth quarter.
Modest sales declines in V8 Red Juice were more than offset by the introduction of V8 Veggie Blends.
Trial and repeat of Veggie Blends continued to meet expectations and depths of repeats remain strong.
We expect our new advertising campaign to drive additional trial.
V8 Splash our powerhouse brand for kids and V8 Plus Energy continue to perform well.
In our immediate consumption channel we are beginning to see some momentum.
We feel good about the overall direction of this business but we still face challenges particularly with the continued decline of our V-Fusion franchise.
In fiscal 2016 the entire category will remain under significant pressure.
While we expect our U.S.
Beverage businesses to improve we are not planning on a return to growth.
Let’s now turn to the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment.
As a reminder Bolthouse Farms consists of the farms and CPG businesses.
Farms includes our retail fresh carrots business and our ingredients business mainly carrot concentrate.
CPG consists of our super premium beverages ultra-premium beverages and refrigerated salad dressings.
We continue to be enthusiastic about Bolthouse Farms especially the branded CPG business.
For the year CPG sales increased high single-digits.
Gains were driven by product innovation increased distribution for beverages and incremental shelf-space at existing customers for our salad dressings.
The initial rollout of our cold pressed organic ultra-premium beverage line 1915 by Bolthouse Farms is off to a good start.
After completing the acquisition of Garden Fresh Gourmet in June we have begun integrating the business.
Thus far there have been no surprises and we are pleased with the retailer response to our long-term plans.
Fiscal 2015 was an eventful year and we took important steps to lay the foundation for the future.
We redesigned our enterprise structure and our three new divisions are now operating in line with their declared portfolio roles.
We established our integrated global services organization and moved elements of finance procurement marketing sales HR and IT into the shared service group.
It's early days but we're off to a solid start.
The focus in fiscal 2016 will be working smarter creating efficiencies and reducing costs while starting to build new enterprise capabilities within this group.
We initiated plans for zero-based budgeting process.
We're piloting ZBB in two cost categories in fiscal 2016 with plans to expand in the future.
We believe this discipline will be of great value to Campbell going forward.
We're off to a very good start to realizing our $250 million cost savings target.
We delivered earlier than expected savings of approximately $85 million across several categories including headcount reductions non-working marketing reduced travel expenses and spending on consultants.
We added another growth engine with the acquisition of Garden Fresh Gourmet to bolster our Campbell Fresh portfolio and extend our presence in the perimeter beyond produce into the deli section.
We initiated an important project to increase consumer trust by providing greater access to information about the ingredients we use and how we make our food.
This is accelerating meaningful changes to our recipes.
For instance overtime we're planning to eliminate artificial colors and flavors from nearly all of our North American products.
Looking ahead to fiscal 2016 we plan to deliver moderate growth in what we believe will continue to be a consumer environment marked by caution.
As we outlined at our Investor Day in July starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 we'll change our reporting segments reflecting our three new divisions each with a distinct portfolio role.
In our America Simple Meals and Beverages division we will focus on driving moderate growth while expanding our margins.
We'll deliver this by focusing on fewer bigger initiatives that will attract new consumers while driving additional consumption by our loyal core consumers.
For example our Campbell's fresh fruit soups in K Cups will provide a new convenient way for consumers to enjoy soup.
This represents an incremental eating occasion that taps into the growing frequency of smaller meals and snacks.
Additionally we'll take an industry leadership role by increasing our transparency efforts.
We'll provide greater access to information about more of our North American product on the whatsinmyfood.com website.
We also plan to improve more of our recipes consistent with our purpose.
In global biscuits and snacks we're focused on expanding in developed and developing markets while improving our margins.
In the developed markets of the United States and Australia we're concentrating on restoring improved levels of growth.
In the U.S.
we'll apply a disciplined focus to consumer driven innovation increased marketing behind our Goldfish and Milano brands and fuel growth in our fresh bakery portfolio.
In Australia we'll continue to improve our core Shapes products and drive Tim Tam's momentum while shifting our marketing mix towards digital.
We'll also remain focused on faster growing spaces building on markets where we have a foothold such as Indonesia and China.
We’ll monitor and adjust to the economic conditions in both of these countries throughout the year.
We recognize that there may be short-term economic pressure in these markets.
In the long-term we believe that it is essential to become more geographically diverse with a higher percentage of our business in faster growing developing markets with an expanding middle-class.
In the Campbell Fresh division we'll make focused investments to accelerate sales growth and expand into new categories.
As we outlined at Investor Day our priorities are to build on the successful launch of our ultra-premium offering 1915.
The product is in 2 000 stores today and we expect to expand to 8 000 stores during the first quarter.
We will continue to accelerate our refrigerated salad dressing business through innovation and increased distribution.
And finally we will integrate the Garden Fresh Gourmet acquisition and our existing refrigerated soup business into the Bolthouse Farms' fresh platform and significantly expand our market penetration.
We expect our sea fresh business to become a full force growth engine for Campbell.
Across all of our businesses we’ll continue to actively explore external development opportunities that make both strategic and economic sense.
We will also remain focused on transforming our cost structure and culture.
We are off to a promising start with our cost reduction efforts but we must remain diligent and continue to create an ownership mindset where employees treat every dollar as if it were their own.
In closing I am cautious but optimistic about fiscal 2016.
I believe that the strategic imperatives we are pursuing purpose and transparency in our core business digital marketing and ecommerce health and wellbeing and expansion in developing markets coupled with our divisions' clear portfolio roles position us well for the year ahead.
We’re very clear eyed about our challenges particularly driving sustainable sales growth but we’re now better organized and better prepared to meet those challenges head on.
We believe that our strategy to focus on driving growth aggressively reducing cost and reinvesting a portion of the savings in the areas of our business with the greatest growth potential is the best way to create shareholder value.
I look forward to answering your questions in a few minutes.
Now let me turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer Anthony DiSilvestro.
Thanks Denise and good morning.
Before reviewing our results and guidance I wanted to give you my perspective on our performance and future outlook.
We finished the year with a solid quarter.
I am very pleased with our gross margin performance in the fourth quarter which improved by 180 basis points benefiting from our price realization and productivity efforts.
The improved gross margin and earlier than expected cost reductions drove 5% gains in both adjusted EBIT and the EPS for the quarter despite a two point negative impact from currency translation.
We made very good progress against our three year $215 million cost savings target delivering about $85 million of savings in fiscal 2015.
For the full year we delivered results within our recent guidance ranges with EPS of $2.46 at the top end of the range.
Looking ahead to 2016 our guidance when you exclude the impact of currency translation and the Garden Fresh Gourmet acquisition is within our new long-term targets.
Now I will review our results in more detail.
For the fourth quarter net sales on an as-reported basis declined 9% to $1.7 billion primarily due to the impact of one less week and the negative impact of currency translation.
Excluding those factors and our recent acquisition of Garden Fresh Gourmet organic net sales increased 1% in the quarter as we benefited from higher selling prices.
Adjusted EBIT increased 5% to $234 million driven by a higher gross margin percentage partly offset by higher incentive compensation expenses and a two point negative impact from currency translation.
Adjusted EPS also increased by 5% to $0.43.
For the full year reported net sales declined 2% with organic sales gaining 1% led by the strong performance of our Global Baking and Snacking segment.
Adjusted EBIT declined 2% to $1.2 billion reflecting a lower gross margin percentage a two point negative impact from currency translation and higher incentive compensation expense partly offset by volume gains and the benefit of our cost savings initiatives.
The decline in gross margin down 70 basis points was driven by higher than anticipated cost inflation and the supply chain issues we experienced in the first half partly offset by productivity and pricing gains.
EPS of $2.46 was comparable to the prior year.
Decomposing our sales performance for the quarter as-reported sales declined 9% with organic sales increasing by 1%.
Volume and mix affected one point which was primarily in our Global Baking and Snacking and U.S.
Beverages segments.
Higher selling prices across four of our reportable segments added one point to sales.
Reduced promotional spending contributed one point to sales growth primarily driven by the Global Baking and Snacking segment.
Currency translation had an adverse impact of three points.
Our two primary foreign currencies the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar both continued to weaken against the U.S.
dollar.
Our recent acquisition of Garden Fresh Gourmet added one point to sales and the impact of one less week subtracted seven points.
Our adjusted gross margin percentage increased by 180 points to 36.1%.
For the quarter and moderating relative to earlier quarters inflation increased by approximately 2%.
Inflation and other factors had a negative impact on gross margin of 1.1 points.
Mix had a negative impact of 40 basis points.
In aggregate our price realization actions have contributed 1.2 points of margin expansion with 40 basis points from reduced promotional spending principally trade reductions in Pepperidge Farm and 80 basis points from higher selling prices primarily on condensed soups Prego and in Canada.
Lastly we continue to drive meaningful productivity gains in our supply chain which contributed 210 basis points of margin improvement in the quarter and overall on operating efficiencies we're above prior year levels.
Marketing and selling expenses declined by 7% in the quarter reflecting the impact of currency and reductions in selling expense and non-working marketing both benefiting from our cost management efforts partly offset by an increase in advertising and consumer promotion expense.
Adjusted administrative expenses increased 10% driven by higher incentive compensation costs compared to the prior year in which the expense was significantly below targeted levels.
For additional perspective on our performance this chart breaks down our EPS change between our operating performance and below the line items.
As you can see adjusted EPS increased $0.02 compared with the prior year increasing from $0.41 to $0.43 per share.
On a currency neutral basis growth in adjusted EBIT contributed $0.04 to EPS.
Net interest expense declined $3 million about a penny per share primarily due to the impact of one less week.
With $200 million of share repurchases throughout the year under our strategic share repurchase program this has reduced our share count and added a penny to EPS in the quarter.
Going the other way our adjusted tax rate for the quarter was 34.8% up 80 basis points versus the prior year reflecting a shift in the mix between U.S.
and foreign earning and negatively impacting EPS by $0.01.
Currency had a $0.01 negative impact on EPS in the quarter completing the bridge to $0.43.
Now turning to our segment results in global baking and snacking our largest sales segment in the quarter.
organic sales increased 1% as growth in Pepperidge Farm and Arnott’s were partly offset by a decline in Kjeldsens.
Sales gains in Pepperidge Farm were driven by Fresh Bakery Goldfish Crackers and frozen products partly offset by a decline in cookies.
Organic growth in Arnott’s reflected gains in Australia partly offset by a decline in Indonesia.
Operating earnings declined 26% driven by the impact of one less week higher marketing and administrative expenses principally incentive compensation currency translation and impairment charges to minor trademarks partly offset by gross margin expansion.
Excluding the impact of one less week currency translation and the impairment charges operating profit increased in the quarter.
In U.S.
Simple Meals organic sales increased 4% while dollar consumption of soups in measured channels increased 1%.
Movements in retail inventory levels contributed to sales gains in the quarter.
As you may recall movements in retail inventory levels had a negative impact on third quarter sales and we're experiencing the opposite effect in the fourth quarter.
We ended the year with retail inventory levels comparable to the prior year.
Organic sales in other Simple Meals increased driven by the continued strong growth of Prego pasta sauce.
Segment sales also benefited from higher selling prices in condensed soups and Prego pasta sauce.
Operating earnings increased 4% reflecting organic sales growth productivity improvements and benefits from our cost savings initiatives partly offset by cost inflation and the impact of one less week.
In the Bolthouse and Foodservice segment organic sales increased 4% with growth in Bolthouse Farms beverages and salad dressing and North America Foodservice partly offset by declines in Bolthouse Farms carrots.
Operating earnings fell 3% on higher administrative expenses and the impact of one less week.
U.S.
beverage organic sales fell 4% primarily due to volume losses in V8 V-Fusion.
While consumer takeaway dollar sales in measured channels was positive sales were negatively impacted by reductions in retail inventory levels and sale declines in the club channels.
Operating earnings declined 23% due to the sales declines including the impact of one less week.
International Simple Meals and Beverages organic sales declined 5% from weakness in Canada and Australia.
Operating earnings declined $10 million or 48% primarily due to volume declines including the impact of one less week and currency translation.
This chart shows the as-reported sales performance of U.S.
Soup unadjusted for the impact of one less week which subtracted seven points in the quarter and one point for the full year.
For the quarter U.S.
Soup sales declined 2% with condensed down 4% ready-to-serve down 3% and broth up 11%.
Excluding the impact of one less week sales of condensed soups increased with gains in both eating and cooking varieties driven by net price realization.
Sales of ready-to-serve soup also increased excluding the impact of one less week primarily driven by the launches of our Fresh-Brewed Soup [indiscernible] and our line of organic soups.
The double-digit sales gain on Swanson broth was primarily led by aseptic varieties.
For the fiscal year as shown towards the bottom of the chart soup sales declined 3% the prior year as a 3% decline in condensed and a 5% decline in ready-to-serve were partly offset by 3% growth in broth.
Here’s the U.S.
wet soup category performance and our share results as measured by IRI.
For the 52-week period ending August 2 2015 the category as a whole declined 0.9%.
Our sales in measured channels declined 0.7% with weakness in ready-to-serve soups partly offset by gains in broth.
Our share increased 10 basis points in the last 52 weeks and has now been relatively stable for three years.
Other branded players in aggregate had a share of 28.1% declining 30 basis points while private label with a 12.6% share gained 20 basis points.
We had strong cash flow performance in fiscal 2015.
Cash from operations increased by $283 million to almost $1.2 billion driven by lower working capital requirements; lapping the taxes paid in 2014 on the divestiture of the European Simple Meals business and lower pension contributions.
Capital expenditures increased to $380 million as we increase capacity in Goldfish Bolthouse Farms beverages broth in North America and biscuits in Indonesia.
We paid dividends totaling $394 million reflecting our current quarterly dividend rate of $0.312 per share.
In aggregate we repurchased 244 million of shares in fiscal 2015 200 million of which were under our strategic share repurchase program.
The balance of repurchases were made to offset dilution from equity-based compensation.
Net debt increased by approximately $60 million to $3.8 billion as gains in cash flows were more than offset by the $232 million acquisition of Garden Fresh Gourmet.
Now I'll review our fiscal 2016 guidance.
The company expects to grow sales by 0% to 1% adjusted EBIT to grow by 3% to 5% and adjusted EPS to grow by 3% to 5% or $2.53 to $2.58 per share.
This guidance includes the estimated native impact of currency translation of two points across sales EBIT and EPS.
This guidance also includes the impact of the Garden Fresh Gourmet acquisition which is estimated to contribute one point of sales and EBIT growth.
The acquisition is neutral at EPS including the impact of reducing our anticipated share repurchases to repay the acquisition debt.
Excluding the impacts from currency headwinds and the acquisition these growth rates are within our long-term growth targets of 1% to 2% organic sales 4% to 6% for adjusted EBIT and 5% to 7% for adjusted EPS.
While we don't give quarterly guidance I will say that we expect some sales headwinds in the first quarter given we're cycling a strong first quarter from last year and from timing related to our promotional strategies.
As announced this morning we intend to adopt mark-to-market pension and post-retirement benefit accounting in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and recast our historical results.
This change eliminates the deferral and subsequent amortization of historic actuarial gains and losses which will be recognized as incurred.
The periodic mark-to-market adjustments will be reflected as an item impacting comparability and therefore excluded from adjusted results.
We believe this accounting change will improve the transparency of our results and the year-to-year comparability.
The 2016 guidance does not reflect the impact of the anticipated accounting change.
However 2016 growth rates are not expected to change from the re-casted 2015 base.
As we operationalize our new division structure beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 we will move from our current five reporting segments to three America's Simple meals and Beverages Global Biscuit and Snacks and Campbell Fresh.
Historical results reflecting both the new segments and change in accounting will be provided shortly after we file our first quarter 10-Q.
Turning to some of the key assumptions underlying our guidance; we expect inflation in cost of product sold of approximately 2% to 3% including the negative impact of a stronger U.S.
dollar on the input cost of our international businesses.
Cost inflation will be offset by gains from our ongoing productivity program which excluding our ZBB initiatives is targeted at 3% of cost of product sold.
We expect our gross margin percentage to improve modestly as we continue to achieve net price realizations and improve our supply chain performance.
We are accruing incentive compensation below the target levels in 2015 and anticipate a headwind of approximately $0.04 per share in 2016.
The effective tax rate is estimated to be in the range of 31% to 32% compared to the 2015 adjusted rate of 31%.
This guidance assumes about $0.02 per share incremental contribution from share repurchases which are expected to be at levels below fiscal 2015.
We are forecasting capital expenditures to decline by $30 million to approximately $350 million which is more inline with our historical spending levels.
In fiscal 2015 we launched the comprehensive reorganization and a three year cost reduction initiative leveraging a zero-based budgeting approach and targeting annual savings of $250 million.
As shown in the chart we have achieved about $85 million of savings in 2015 as we've reduced headcount and realized savings across several cost categories.
For 2016 we are targeting to increase the savings run rate to $145 million which will put us more than halfway toward $250 million goal.
Most of the 2016 gains will come in the selling and marketing and administrative expense lines.
The majority of the more complex supply chain gains will come later in the program.
To implement the program we estimate total program cost in the range of $250 million to $325 million.
In fiscal 2015 we recognized costs totaling $124 million which includes $22 million of implementation costs and $102 million of restructuring charges principally severance as we implemented both a voluntary incentive separation program and headcount reductions as we've streamlined our organization.
Against this program we estimate program costs of approximately $100 million in fiscal 2016.
That concludes my remarks.
I now turn it back to Ken for the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Anthony.
We will now start our Q&amp;A session.
Since we have limited time out of fairness to other callers if you could please ask only one question at a time.
Thanks.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Robert Moskow with Credit Suisse Securities.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
The gross margin expansion obviously was much higher than what we all expected and I don’t know have you given any specific guidance for what kind of expansion you expect in fiscal ‘16? And also was there any help in the quarter resulting from kind of like the mismatch of incremental costs that you took on in first and second quarter Anthony? I remember there were some noise there related to some inefficiencies for extra cost that needed to be spread out over multiple quarters.
Did that influence the fourth quarter expansion at all? So Rob I will comment on the fourth quarter and then I will come back to 2016.
The fourth quarter comp is fairly clean.
The only thing that gave us some advantage this year relative to last year is the timing of the mark-to-market adjustment on our commodity hedges.
So we had a little bit of favorability this year relative to last year.
So a small portion of that 180 basis points is that and the rest is improvement in the operating performance of the business.
In terms of 2016 as I said in my remarks we expect to see a modest improvement in our gross margin percentage and I think the way to think about it there is a number of positives and a number of negatives.
On the positive side our annual cost productivity program where we target 3% of cost obviously that’s the most significant benefit.
We expect to see continued benefit on net price realization mostly from the pricing actions that we’ve taken in the back half of this year.
We do expect to see some margin improvement from improved supply chain performance year-on-year given the challenges that we have in the first half of last year.
On the negative side three things to mention.
One is cost inflation which we expect to be about 2% to 3% and that includes the negative impact of currency on the input cost of a number of our international businesses but also includes some negative mix and lastly the cost of some quality improvements we are making in some of our -- both our products and packaging.
Okay I’ll let it go thanks.
Our next question comes from John Baumgartner with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Thanks good morning.
Denise wanted to ask about Global Baking and Snacking and the volume pressure there.
Maybe if you could address in a bit more detail some of that pressure in Asia particularly I guess Kjeldsens in China.
And then in the U.S.
cookie business and the softness here it seems that Pepperidge pricing really began to outpace the category over the past few months.
Are you seeing some elasticity impact there and how are you seeing that for fiscal ‘16? Yeah let me start first with our core business in the United States and in Australia we are pleased with the share in consumption of Goldfish crackers and in particular Milano although we did experience in the quarter some softness in cookies.
That was pretty much as expected because we -- in the biscuit business in the United States particularly in the quarter we did not promote as heavily as last year because the promotions were not as productive as we would have expected.
So that was pretty deliberate.
But we expect moderate growth in the United States on our biscuit business.
In the Australian business we are really happy with the year that we had there.
That has been a pretty remarkable turnaround.
We were challenged in Australia for a couple of years and they have now posted really outstanding results and it’s been really on the fundamentals better advertising more innovation more brand building more digital.
So we believe that the building blocks they put in place there are very sustainable.
We had a great year in Indonesia with double-digit growth but we did have a slow fourth quarter and all you have to do is pick up a newspaper to see what’s going on in Asia these days.
But we’re watching that very careful and we believe -- look we have lot of runway in Indonesia to expand our distribution points but we are going to be very responsible about that business in '16.
And then the Kjeldsens business this is a very small quarter for Kjeldsens.
The sales are skewed in China largely towards Chinese New Year.
But that said we did have some inventory overhang from Chinese New Year this year and we're working through that right now.
And that hit us predominantly in the fourth quarter.
Perfect thank you Denise.
Our next question comes from Chris Growe with Stifel.
Your line is open.
Hi thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Chris.
Hi just a quick question if I could then.
I just wanted a sense of the degree of promotional spending and what you expected to do across the year.
I know every business is different and I'm sure broadly you have expectations for each business.
But is there an overall outcome [ph] that's going to come from promotional spending may be related to that advertising not sure I heard that what you expect advertising spending for the year? Thank you.
Yeah we are continuing to manage our trade promotions to maximize our profitable volume.
We're maintaining a focus on competitive activity in both our customer programs and in our consumer response.
And we are as noted looking for opportunities to improve our trade spending not only for ourselves to get a better return but also for our customers to get a better return.
And so there is no real strategy to cut back but they're definitely is improved analytics and revenue management.
So we have a much more productive trade spend.
In total our advertising consumer and trade was about 24% of sales which we try and aim for about 24% to 25% as a rule.
Our next question comes from Jason English with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning folks.
Good morning First a quick housekeeping question.
Can you guys quantifying what the 2015 EPS base is going to look like post the re-casting related to pension accounting? Sure I can do that.
I think the way to think about it in 2015 the amortization within our pension expense is going to be about $100 million pretax.
And that's a good proxy for the impact of the accounting change when we through a bunch of pluses and minuses.
I think a couple of additional points on this these plans have been close to new hires for a couple of years now.
They're very well-funded.
We ended the year at 97% to 98% in terms of funded status.
And we don't expect to make any contributions to our U.S.
plans in 2016.
Thank you.
That's helpful.
And you mentioned ZBB focused on two cost categories.
Can you specify what categories those are? Yeah we did our pilot program on our non-working marketing and also on the consulting.
And on marketing it's -- you're focusing on more productivity there? It's down around 17% from your fiscal '10 high.
How much further can you go and as you try to some of balance and walk the line of containing promotions and I think it's encouraging to see that promotions actually being a positive contributor to sales can you do both at the same time.
Can you continue to hold the line of marketing and find efficiencies there while at the same time pulling back or find the efficiencies on trade spend? Or is it a either/or type situation as you think about the forward? I think that we look at the marketing mix as the three elements of advertising consumer and trade.
And of course that mix is going to vary by business in terms of what degree we spend.
But we do have some shifts going on.
As Anthony alluded to we are making a conscious effort to reduce our non-working marketing where it's not a productive spend.
The second is within advertising we are shifting more dollars out of conventional TV and more into digital.
And that spend has been shifting overtime but will be up to 40% going forward.
And then we try again for ACT to stay in the range of about 24% to 25% of sales and that's remained pretty constant over the last couple of years.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate the color and I'll pass it on.
Our next question comes from David Palmer with RBC.
Your line is open.
Hi David.
David if your line is on mute can you please unmute it? We'll move onto our next question.
Our next question comes from Ken Goldman with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Hey Ken.
Hi good morning.
Real quick one regarding U.S.
Simple Meals and forgive me if you mentioned this but you talked about positive movements in the retailer inventory levels.
Can you elaborate a bit on how much that helped and what happened that your customers I guess loaded up a bit on purchases versus the prior year? Yeah I think it's more about how we came into the quarter.
If you recall the third quarter I think our sales were down 10% while our consumption was only down one.
So we came into the quarter with inventory levels down.
We ended the quarter and the year with retail inventories about where they were a year ago.
So in the fourth quarter while our consumption was plus 1% our organic sales were plus about 5%.
So we had about four points of lift from that shift in inventory.
Thanks and a quick one if I can in terms of U.S.
cookies your two main competitors have made some DSD investments there.
Can you talk about whether you think those investment have affected your business at all negatively and whether you might want to add to your capability there to match what some of your peers have done? I can't comment really on competition investments.
But I can say that we continue to be very supportive of our independent distributor network.
They are a large part of our business model and we'll continue to build the business alongside of them.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from Matthew Grainger with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning everyone.
Hi Matt.
Good morning.
Denise I just wanted to touch on the -- come back to the outlook for U.S.
beverages in 2016 it sounds like you are still cautious definitely from a sales perspective.
But is it possible that we could begin to see some improvement in margin or profit growth? And as you think about the growth profile of that business given how persistent volume declines have been do you think there may be an opportunity to perhaps take a more profit maximizing approach perhaps focus a little bit more on pricing realization? We are doing both and obviously the category itself has been under a lot of pressure based on the consumer and so what we've been really focused on is how do we broaden our line and better deliver on the things that consumers are looking for in vegetable juices and we believe that vegetable juices have an advantage based on the consumer trends.
We learned a lot from Bolthouse and actually our V8 veggie blends reflect a broadening of vegetable based beverages based on consumer preferences for those particular flavor profiles and we think that that is really taking the business in the right direction.
That said we still have some leaky bucket in our V8 V-Fusion that we're dealing with.
Our V8 SPLASH and V8 Plus Energy are doing really well and our immediate consumption has now posted the second quarter of growth.
So we've got some good signs on the growth curve but more things working than not.
But we're still are cautious about declaring victory yet.
The other thing we're working on is a mastering complexity project in our supply chain which we believe will have a really positive impact on our profit going forward.
But that is a longer term play.
Okay thanks and then just to come back to some of the more on trend new products like V8 Veggie blends.
Is that something maybe not initially but something that you feel can be rolled out in a more of a margin neutral way given sort of the added quality components of it? The brand -- Veggie Blends is showing some really good trial and repeat and we believe we do have to invest marketing to drive the trial because the repeats are so strong.
Building a new product today is heavy lifting and so making sure that we breakthrough and we are supporting the brands we put out there is an important idea.
Sure.
Okay thanks Denise.
Our next question comes from Bryan Spillane with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Hey good morning everyone.
Hello Bryan.
Hey Bryan.
Just a quick question about just the cost inflation assumption for 2016 can you just give us some color around where the inflation pressure is especially most more recently you’ve seen some commodity movements that would presumably be more favorable and also just to what degree your inflation assumption for 2016 reflects some incremental cost related to the like ingredient changes? Sure I can you give you a little more color on that.
So overall like I said earlier the cost inflation of about 2% to 3%.
If you parse that apart and look at the core ingredients and packaging and energy component it’s about 1%.
And within that the key drivers will be about five categories vegetables flavors sweeteners chocolates and we have a significant increase in -- as a result of the avian flu in both eggs and pasta.
In eggs we’re looking at inflation rates of close to 50% in fiscal ’16.
So those are the key drivers of the 1%.
Then on top of that there’s a couple of other items.
So first would be and I alluded to it the FX impact of input cost on our Canadian business and the Australian business is fairly significant.
And then the other couple of pieces one would be wage raise within the supply chain and also benefits both healthcare and pension.
And in terms of the commodities because you mentioned some of the prices coming down we're locked in to about 75% of our commodities for fiscal ’16.
Okay great.
That’s very helpful and have a great Labor Day Weekend everyone.
Thank you you too.
Our next question comes from Jonathan Fini with Asos Research [ph].
Your line is open.
Hi Jon.
Hi how are you? Good morning.
One question I had.
I wanted to get more detail about the -- you mentioned retailer inventories particularly within Simple Meals.
Any kind of detail you can give us about how sustainable those are particularly in broth where sales are particularly strong what kind of went on and maybe more detail by channel? I know you discussed it a little bit but are there any particular retailers who are moving inventories around in a way that affected profit this quarter? Thanks.
No other than the comment I made earlier that we came in to the quarter with inventory below last year.
I mean it’s kind of a rocky road.
We started the year and ended the year about the same place right which isn't a lot of retail inventories.
The issue that we saw all throughout the year was the quarterly volatility starting with the first quarter with the timing of the holidays change because we had one less week in the fiscal year and then some timing in the third quarter where we pulled back quite a bit on some of our promotional activity in soup and that led to some reduction in retailer inventories.
That corrected in the fourth quarter and I’ll say again we ended the year at relatively low levels comparable to a year ago and I don't -- can't think of any particular anomaly within that Jonathan.
The drivers are really that inventory movement is largely a function of promotional activity and as we’re noting the activity is not consistent quarter-to-quarter and inventory changes are largely individual customer decisions.
So those are three other points that round out that discussion.
Great well.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from David Driscoll with Citi.
Your line is open.
Hi David.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Denise I wanted to ask a little bit about this new segment America Simple Meals and Beverages and just really to ask about the margin opportunity that’s there for the segment and I want to say something that I feel like that there’s been almost a basic philosophical shift here such that the focus moves from what I perceive in the past as just kind of a maniacal focus on volumes to a very different business focus for that segment now just going for profit.
So number one am I right -- am I overstating kind of the philosophical shift and can you give us some dimensions on the margin opportunity and I'm not too concerned about the timeline this is not a fiscal ’16 question I really want to understand big picture where it’s going? Yes I think expecting that business to grow moderately at the top line and expand margins is a more balanced approach to the portfolio in terms of expecting these categories to do what they can do.
And that doesn’t mean that we won’t have pockets of growth.
For example the Plum business resides in that category in to -- in that division.
And we expect robust growth from Plum.
We also are not taking our foot off the gas on innovation but we're being a lot more selective about the innovation we put into the market because we're in a different place.
And couple of years ago we didn't have a pipeline.
And so what happened as a result are some little ideas got out into the marketplace.
Today we have built the pipeline and we could be more choiceful about the larger ideas where we know we're going to get an impact from.
And so I think this is a much more responsible way to run this business.
And we believe that we can deliver better value for our shareholders with this approach.
But is there any way to kind of put a kind a guideline to this margin expansion.
I mean I'm trying to get a sense of just is this 10-20 basis points a year or is this something that has a bigger potential than that? I would say let me put it at this way I think there is an opportunity overtime to grow the profit in that division above the company target.
Yes and it has been eroded for the past couple of years.
So by -- getting into our cost structure and getting into the discipline of zero-based budgeting we're going to be able to do this in a very surgical way so that it sticks in a sustainable way.
I really appreciate the comments.
Thank you so much.
Our final question comes from Diane Geissler with CLSA.
Your line is open.
Hi Diane.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about the soup category.
So we're heading into the start of the soup season here.
It seems just anecdotally the category is a little promotional.
I'm sure it's probably promotional every fall because it is the high season.
Could you talk a little bit about what you're seeing on shelf and from the retailers in terms of the levels of support they're looking for? And is there any divergence from what you've seen around this time kind of every year? It's early days in the season.
Right now where we're focused on is making sure that our shelf space is intact and the products are merchandized correctly on shelf.
We have new products that are being cut in like the K cups and organic soup making sure that that's sufficiently placed.
Our Campbell sales team is working with customers on a robust promotion schedule and not -- but pretty consistent with what we had in prior years.
So at this point in time I don't see anything unusual.
I don't know Anthony if you have anything to add? No nothing.
And the K cups how will you account for those? Are those -- what do you consider those condensed or…? We actually believe they will be largely incremental to the category because it is an incremental usage occasion going after soup as a snack.
We believe that there is a great overlap between our Campbell soup users and Keurig users.
And our research has confirmed that.
We are shelving it in the coffee aisle in about 70% of the retail environment.
And that's basically because we believe that people who are interested in buying K cups will see this as a real positive in terms of expanding the usage of their dispensers into new categories and new usage occasions.
We have two pack sizes one designed to drive trial which we situating in the soup aisle and then the -- that’s a two count pack and then a six count pack in the coffee aisle.
So we're pretty excited about it.
It's going to be different but we believe that the space has really been a game changer for coffee and we expect some good things from it.
The segment classification is the good question.
And I'd have to think about that and what we'll do when we get to the first quarter I'll make sure I highlight which segment we put that in.
Okay.
And how many flavors are in the K cups? I think right now it's just two.
Yes two.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
And that does conclude the Q&amp;A session.
I'll turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank everyone for joining our fourth quarter call and webcast.
A full replay will be available about two hours after this call.
You can go online or if you are calling 188-266-2081 the access code is 1660929.
You have until September 17 at which point we move our earnings call straight into the website investor.campbellsoupcompany.com.
Just click on recent webcast and presentations.
If you have any further questions please call me Ken at 856-342-6081.
If you are a reporter with questions please call Carla Burigatto our Director of External Communications 856-342-3737.
This concludes today's call.
Thanks.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That does conclude today's conference.
You may all disconnect and everyone have a great day.