Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife First Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you.
Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome to CryoLife’s First Quarter Conference Call.
This is Steve Anderson; CryoLife’s CEO and with me today is Ashley Lee CryoLife’s Executive VP COO and CFO.
This morning we reported record first quarter revenues of $30.2 million and earnings of $0.06 per share.
Ashley will discuss these results in more detail in a few minutes.
The agenda for today’s call is as follows.
Ashley will discuss the results of the first quarter by product line and the financial implications for the potential acquisition of Cardiogenesis.
I’ll discuss the recently announced planned acquisition of Cardiogenesis and the first quarter sales of PerClot our new powdered hemostat that we acquired last September.
I’ll also discuss the progress in the launch of BioFoam in Europe and I’ll discuss BioGlue in Japan.
After my comments are completed Ashley will return to give you some financial guidance for the rest of the year.
At this time Ashley will discuss this morning’s press release and our financial results for the first quarter.
Thanks Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call which look forward in time involve risks and uncertainties in our forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include the statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions; hopes; beliefs; expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2011 that I’ll provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company's SEC filings including the risk factor section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2010 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter-ended March 31 2011 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
On the call today I will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the comparable GAAP measures and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the equitable GAAP measures in the press release that went out this morning.
A copy of which is contained on the Investor Relations portion of our Web site.
This morning we reported our results for the first quarter of 2011.
We set an all-time quarterly revenue record of $30.2 million.
As of March 31 2011 we had $42.9 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted securities which includes $1.6 million received from the DoD and $5.3 million in restricted securities.
We generated cash flow from operations of $3.9 million in the quarter.
Net income for the first quarter of 2011 was $1.7 million or $0.06 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to net income of $1.9 million or $0.07 per basic employee diluted common share for the first quarter of 2010.
Excluding pre-tax charges of $1.2 million related to our proposed acquisition of Cardiogenesis Corporation and other business development activities non-GAAP adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2011 was $2.4 million or $0.09 per basic and fully diluted common share.
Vascular revenues increased 5% for the first quarter of 2011 compared to the first quarter of 2010.
The increase for the first quarter resulted primarily from a 2% increase in unit shipments and an increase in average service fees.
Cardiac revenues for the first quarter of 2011 decreased 5% compared to the corresponding period of 2010.
The decrease for the quarter was primarily due to a decrease in shipments for cardiac valves and patch material primarily as a result of competitive pressures and cost containment practices in certain hospitals.
Product revenues which consist primarily of sales of BioGlue PerClot and HemoStase were $14.4 million for the first quarter of 2011 compared to $14 million for the first quarter of 2010 an increase of 2%.
The increase in product revenues was primarily due to the addition of PerClot revenues in the first quarter of 2011 partially offset by a decrease in HemoStase revenues.
Total gross margins were 61% and 60% for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010.
Preservation Service gross margins were 41% and 40% for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010 and product gross margins were 83% and 82% for the first quarter of 2011 and 2010.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2011 were $14.3 million compared to $13.8 million for the first quarter of 2010.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2011 included approximately $1.2 million in costs related to our proposed acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2010 included approximately $729 000 in costs related to the write off of our BioGlue intellectual property rights in Germany.
R&amp;D expenses were $1.8 million and $1.3 million for the first quarters of 2011 and 2010.
R&amp;D spending in 2011 primarily focused on per clock [ph] center graph tissues and products and BioFoam.
Referred to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Steve.
Historically the company has focused on unique products for the treatment of complex cardiac and vascular reconstruction procedures.
Its management thinking that with the aging of 78 million baby boomers the indications for complex cardiac and vascular repair will continue to significantly expand.
To that end in March we announced the planned acquisition of Cardiogenesis Corporation Irvine California.
Cardiogenesis is a pioneer in the development and use of laser technology for Transmyocardial Revascularization in patients with severe or refractory angina.
With its technology directed at severe cardiac disease this technology fits perfectly into CryoLife’s corporate focus of complex cardiac repair.
It is approved by the FDA for distribution in the US and in CE mark for distribution in Europe.
It is Medicare approved and is reimbursable.
TMR is accepted as meaningful therapy by the American College of Cardiology American Heart Association and the Society of Thoracic Surgery.
Cardiogenesis also has a handpiece product that is approved in Europe that combines TMR with the delivery of biologic materials specifically stem cells derived from the patients’ bone marrow to promote cardiac angiogenesis.
We are increased by the potential use of stem cells in conjunction with TMR and plan to submit an IDE request to the FDA to begin testing in the United States.
Analysts estimate that the annual US market for our laser device like Cardiogenesis is about $175 million with an approved indication for use with stem cells; they estimate that the total annual US market could be greater than 700 million.
Currently Cardiogenesis handpieces have generated gross margins above the 80%.
Cardiogenesis sales in 2010 were 11.3 million.
We expect this acquisition to be break-even to slightly accretive to earnings per share in 2011 net of transaction expenses.
We expect this transaction to close in mid-to-late May after which time we will be consolidating their sales force with ours which will allow us to almost double our sales force that is focused on cardiac surgery presently working in the field.
As you will recollect we announced the acquisition of rights to distribute and manufacture PerClot a powdered HemoStase from Starch Medical in September of 2010.
Our agreement gives us exclusive worldwide distribution and manufacturing rights except for China Taiwan Hong Kong Macau North Korea Iran and Syria.
We were able to sell PerClot in Europe for the last ten weeks of 2010 and our revenues for those 10 weeks were $264 000.
We are pleased to tell you that sales of PerClot in the first quarter of 2011 were $660 000 about 2.5 times of what we did in the fourth quarter.
We are extremely pleased with the progress we are making with PerClot and with the doctors reception of the product.
We have sold as much PerClot in less than six months as Starch Medical did the whole prior year.
As previously announced we filed our IDE for this product with the FDA on March 31st.
We are waiting for FDA approval to begin our human clinical trial in the United States The European market launch of BioFoam continues to gain traction.
Currently BioFoam is approved in Europe for uses in adjunct and the ceiling of abdominal parenchyma tissues such as liver and spleen when sensation of bleeding by ligature or other conventional methods is ineffective or impractical.
We also believe that BioFoam may have significant clinical utility in cardiovascular indications and we have begun to evaluate our opportunities to expand the European label claims for BioFoam to include cardiovascular application.
The screening for enrolment of BioFoam patients in the United States IDE clinical trial has begun.
In the IDE study BioFoam is used to help CO [ph] liver parenchyma tissue when sensation of bleeding by ligature or other conventional methods is ineffective or impractical.
In September of 2010 BioGlue received shown an approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health Labor and Welfare for use in the repair of aortic dissections.
Prior to distribution the Ministry completed a remote inspection of CryoLife pursuant to Japanese quality management system requirements and required product reimbursement paper work for Japanese authorities.
CryoLife’s partner Century Medical will distribute BioGlue in Japan for use in the subset of cardiac surgery.
The company estimates that the annual Japanese market for the use of surgical and service and the repair of aortic dissections is approximately 10 million and the total annual market for the use of adhesives and ceilings in Japan is approximately 150 million.
We shipped our first BioGlue to Century Medical in Japan yesterday.
It is management’s opinion that the product platform of BioGlue PerClot and will establish CryoLife as a major player in the worldwide surgical adhesives and HemoStase area.
The total annual worldwide market for surgical adhesives and HemoStase is about $2 billion based on industry analyst estimate.
That concludes my comments.
Now I’ll turn the call back to Ashley Lee for his comments and rest of your guidance.
We believe that we are taking the steps necessary to position the company for future revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through our internal development and business development activities including the PerClot transaction and the pending acquisition of Cardiogenesis.
As we look to the future there are several important milestones related to our business development activities that we expect to achieve in the coming months as we progress towards increasing our addressable market opportunity.
They include one the closing of our announced acquisition of Cardiogenesis; two the initiation of enrolment in our PerClot IDE schedule for later this year; and three the filing of our IDE for the Cardiogenesis stem cell trial assuming the close of our pending acquisition of Cardiogenesis.
Additionally given our strong financial performance in cash position we continue to evaluate opportunities on the business development front as a means to accelerate the growth of the company.
We now expect total revenues for the full year of 2011 excluding any revenue related to our potential acquisition of Cardiogenesis to be near the lower end of our previously issued range of between 120 million and 126 million which includes revenues of between 0.5 million and 1 million related to the use of funds received from the US DoD in connection with the development of BioFoam.
We expect tissue processing revenues to increase in the mid single-digits range on a percentage basis in 2011 compared to 2010.
BioGlue and BioFoam revenues to increase in the low single to mid single digits on a percentage basis in 2011 compared to 2010.
With revenues from powdered HemoStase including PerClot and HemoStase to be between 5 million and 6 million we expect research and development expenses to be between 10 million and 12 million in 2011.
Excluding any future impact from Cardiogenesis we expect the GAAP EPS of between $0.23 and $0.27 and expect non-GAAP EPS of between $0.26 and $0.30 in 2011 excluding $0.03 per share of acquisition and related integration costs and other business development expenses incurred in the first quarter.
If we successfully complete the acquisition of Cardiogenesis in May we expect revenue from the Cardiogenesis product line to be between 4 million and 5 million in 2011 which primarily reflects disposable handpiece and service revenues.
We believe this will offset the loss of revenues arrived from the powdered hemostat which we previously distributed for a third-party.
We expect the transaction to be accretive to our revenue growth rate and gross margin and to be either breakeven or slightly accretive to diluted non-GAAP EPS of between $0.26 and $0.30 in 2011 excluding acquisition-related charges and integration costs and excluding the increased the costs of goods sold related to the step up in inventory values required under purchase accounting expected to be incurred during 2011.
We expect the total of these charges to be between $0.06 and $0.08 for the full year including the expenses of $0.03 per share included in the first quarter of this year.
We expect our effective income tax rate for the full year of 2011 to be in the mid-30% range.
If we successfully complete the Cardiogenesis transaction we expect our effective rate to be significantly higher in the second quarter of this year as compared to the first quarter of this year due to the tax treatment of non-deductible acquisition-related charges which would significantly increase the rate for the full year also.
To reiterate we believe that we are taking the necessary steps to position the company for sustainable enhanced future revenue and earnings growth and we will continue to work to execute on our strategy of creating value for our shareholders.
That concludes my comments.
I will now turn it back over to Steve.
At this time I’ll open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Our first question comes from Matt Dolan with Roth Capital Partners.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Matt how are you? Good.
First question on the guidance; it looks like tissue preservation the growth rate has come down a little bit and the language around BioGlue and Foam is a little weaker as well.
So maybe two parts; can you tell us what’s going on from a macro standpoint as it relates to growth to push you towards the low end of the guidance? And then secondly assuming or not but do you see any possibility of a benefit in the second half through the integration of the Cardiogenesis sales group? There’re a couple of factors Matt that are pushing us towards the lower end of our previously issued range and I think that there are things that you hear quite often when you talk to companies that are providing services and products to hospitals and those two are one cost containment pressures we continue to see those and two we are seeing some competitive issues with some of our products.
So with that being said that pushes us towards the lower end of our previously issued range.
As it relates to any potential benefit related to the pending acquisition of Cardiogenesis and hopefully the successful integration of our sales force with ours there is a potential benefit there as it relates to not only their part of line but ours.
But we haven’t really included a significant benefit for that integration in any of the numbers that we set forth right now.
We think over the balance of the year again assuming the successful completion of the acquisition we would begin the integration of the sales forces immediately and we would expect that to continue over the balance of the year.
So maybe not an immediate benefit but certainly longer-term we would expect to see a benefit.
Can you elaborate on some of those competitive pressures you’re sensing on? As it relates to cardiac tissues we’re seeing some of our cardiac patch business there’s a new player in that market it’s been in there for like the last year or two and we’re seeing some competitive issues as it relates to that particular new product coming on board.
It’s from a company called Matrix.
We’re seeing some price pressures in that particular area.
As it relates to the vascular tissues it came out with a product a while ago Propaten which is used for a peripheral vascular reconstruction.
So we’re seeing pockets of it but again despite that we think that we’ve got a very strong core business in both of these areas.
They continue to generate significant amount of operating cash flow for us that allow us to pursue these other business development activities that we’ve been focusing on.
Okay and then on Cardiogenesis a couple of questions there.
First of all on the guidance only $4 million to $5 million versus it would appear to be a run rate at a higher level than that.
And then walk us through the integration strategy with the sales force that you could.
It sounds like you are going to maintain the entire group.
What do you do in the situation of territory crossover in those types of potential conflicts? Well first of all those territory conflicts will be worked out.
I’m pretty optimistic that with doubling of that specialty sales force that we won’t have increases right across the line in both of the product lines.
It’s my opinion that it will take more work to train the Cardiogenesis people and the use of tissues and cardiac surgery than it will to train the CryoLife people and the function and use of Cardiogenesis lasers.
That’s just my personal opinion.
But I think that the reaction that we have seen from the physicians in the marketplace to the prospects of a stem cell trial using the Cardiogenesis instrumentation is very encouraging to us.
And I’m expecting to have a great deal of enthusiasm from the surgeons regarding our participation in the stem cell clinical trial.
Matt to your question on the revenue guidance if you will notice that the numbers that we set forth one do not include any revenues from capital re-equipment just due to somewhat under predictable nature of that.
We’ve not included any guidance and therefore capital re-equipment.
And two assuming that we meet the timetable that we’ve laid out there and closing and immediately beginning the integration it is going to be a transition period.
So we didn’t want to out of the gates get ahead of ourselves as it relates to further new guidance for the disposables which are reflective of our procedure volume.
And you are expecting volumes or disposables to grow on an underlying basis excluding those variables is that fair to say? Going forward yes.
We will say that this potential acquisition even with the existing approved product line that Cardiogenesis has; we think it makes a lot of sense for CryoLife and our shareholders.
And we think that over the next few years that we are going to be able to grow that business in the low double digits and possibly better than that.
If we are successful in getting the stem cell approval which we are very excited about it will only increase the upside and benefits for this potential transaction to CryoLife.
Okay thanks for the time but the last one on the business development side.
You proactively mentioned that is that something that’s a true near-term opportunity you could have another acquisition or in-licensing opportunity here shortly? Yes.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Joe Munda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please state your question.
Good morning guys.
How are you? Good morning.
I wanted to touch a little bit on what Ashley had just said as far as the stem cell approval.
Once the acquisition goes through what possible regulatory issue do you see occurring maybe from the FDA? If we get the transaction completed as anticipated in mid-to-late May at some point either late in the second quarter or sometime in the third quarter we would expect to file the IDE with the FDA to begin the clinical trial process.
And only after we do that will we get a formal response from the FDA as to what their specific issues are so it’s hard to say what those might be but again we plan on filing the IDE in the very near future.
And once we do that we’ll know exactly what the FDA talks are about.
I’m just asking because I know stem cell is a (inaudible) issue.
The thing about the project that we’d be working on is that they are autologous stem cells which are the patients… The patients own some yes.
So we think that could possibly mitigate some of the issues that that you see with some of the other stem cell technologies are out there.
Do you expect a similar timeline that you guys are experiencing with PerClot to occur with this type of approval.
You mean for the full development cycle? Yes exactly.
Again we’ll only know after we file the IDE here from the FDA but from beginning to end you could considerably get a trial like this done and improve within a three-year timeframe but again it’s going to be dependent on what the FDA ultimately says It is approved for useless stem cell in Europe and because of the fact that they did not have a lot of working capital they really haven’t pushed their product in Europe at all.
So we look at that as a great marketing opportunity to have the basic laser technology and the stem cell technology already approved and ready to go in Europe.
So basically you are using the same model that you have now for PerClot and you are applying to this.
Yes.
Okay.
The other thing in regards to PerClot you guys had mentioned FDA approval in 2013 or is that the beginning of 2013 or do you think it’s going to be end of 2013 going to 2014.
I think it’s going to be early in 2013 or even late in 2012.
Okay.
And just one other question.
Can you comment a little bit on the amended tender offer what (inaudible) guys go back and amend the offer? That was really dictated by some new answers in California law.
And the amendment was really in response to a comment that we got from the SEC.
In California yes you acquired more than 49.9% of the outstanding stock of a company.
Let us say’s say its 50% 51% or 52%.
You have to use your own company stock.
In this instance it’d be CryoLife stock to buy the remaining existing shares of the company.
So the current plan is to hopefully at the conclusion of the initial period close on 49.9% of the outstanding stock all of special shareholders meeting and we get more than 50% of the vote in the affirmative for the merger then we will move quickly after the shareholders meeting to close on the merger.
So it’s really more of a procedural issue than anything else.
Okay.
I know the Sharp [ph] period had just expired.
Do you know if they were approached by anybody else? It’s our understanding that they were not.
Okay.
All right thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Tim Lee with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your questions.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
How are you? A couple of follow-ups.
I think you touched on as well in the previous question but what are the gaining factors in terms of what need to happen to close the Cardiogenesis transaction in May and is that purely a high confidence that that’s going to occur or what’s the risk that’s slipping a little bit? The tender seems to be going according to plan at this point.
Now we won’t know until the end of the initial period which is midnight on Monday as to whether or not we’ve gotten to 49.9%.
But as it stands right now things seem to be going according to plan.
If things remain on target then we’re pretty confident that we’ll be able to close the transaction in mid-to-late May.
Got it.
Okay thank you.
And then just kind of switching gears in terms of HemoStase was there any inventory left over at the end of the quarter.
What was left over kind of in line with reserves you have previously taken? That is correct.
We actually sold about approximately $300 000 worth of HemoStase inventory that had been previously written off.
So there are no additionally write-offs to occur related to HemoStase.
Just make sure I know what kind of (inaudible) 300 000 of inventory you had written off there’s a slight gross margin benefit because of that.
That is correct.
Okay perfect.
And then just lastly in terms of the BioFoam opportunity in Japan I think you decided an initial opportunity about 10 million for the aortic dissection mark.
You think it started the total market potential at 150 million was really needed to drive kind of year opportunity from 10 million to 150 additional clinical study with the different distribution just any color on that from this thank you.
We would have to have a completely different clinical trial.
We have to have a clinical trial based around different indications than what the product was initially approved for.
And then I guess (inaudible) 150 million opportunities is a three-year to five-year type opportunity what is the timeframe in terms of realizing or entering those? I would say five years.
Perfect.
Okay thank you very much and I will get back in queue.
Our next question comes from Raymond Myers with Benchmark.
Please proceed with your question.
Great thank you.
Most of my questions have been answered but let me ask this one.
PerClot revenue in Q1 was 660 000.
We’ll have a lot to compare that with except for Q4 where……(technical difficulty) We lost you.
We lost you Ray.
…… after having a very strong $660 000 in Q1 is any of that due to stocking and what does that tell you about the potential for the product over the course of the year? We have actually seen the majority of our distributors reorder already.
So we remain very optimistic about PerClot revenues for the balance of this year and our expectations are included in the guidance that we gave for all powdered hemostats that we talked about earlier.
I guess what I’m driving at is trying to understand how contributed that guidance is.
I’m assuming for starters we’re not going to sell any more hemostats correct? That is correct.
And PerClot increased by well over 200% sequentially from Q4 to Q1.
Was any of that due to stocking orders that you don’t expect to repeat in Q2? No most of the distributors have reorders by this time.
Not all but most.
So with that kind of a quarter-on-quarter growth rate what kind of PerClot revenue would we expect in Q2? We don’t give quarterly guidance out Ray but again we gave for powdered HemoStase it could be as much as 5 million for the full year and we would expect to see sequential growth in PerClot revenues over the balance of this year so we’ll leave it to that.
One of the things that we have pointed in the previous calls is that our R&amp;D people feel that the PerClot absorbs two to three times the amount of fluid that the prior product absorbed and I can tell you that the difference in the activity of the product is striking but you exhibit them side by side.
Now it’s very hard to describe that conversationally.
But what I would suggest is the next time we have a booth at a convention that you ask to personally see the demonstration of the two products side by side because the doctors’ reaction to the activity the chemical activity of PerClot has been extraordinary and we are very very enthusiastic about that product.
Well that sounds great.
I’ll do that and look forward to growth in that area.
Thanks.
I now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us and we look forward to talking to you after the second quarter.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife Second Quarter 2011 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you.
Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s CEO and I would like to welcome you to CryoLife’s Second Quarter Conference Call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the company’s Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
This morning we announced CryoLife's second quarter 2011 operating results.
Revenues were a record $29.4 million.
These results are in line with our expectation importantly our growth was led by our new recently acquired and launch product.
During the quarter we also continued to execute on our new products initiatives and made strong progress on the integration on Cardiogenesis positioning as well for on going success.
The agenda for the call this morning is as follows: Ashley will review this morning’s press release and with discuss revenues by product.
He will also discuss the recent investment that the company made in ValveXchange an early stage prosthetic heart valve company.
I will discuss the first full quarter of BioGlue sales in Japan.
I will also discuss our early sales progress with PerClot the powdered hemostat that we licenses from Starch Medical late last year and that is approved for sale in Europe.
I will also discuss our recent acquisition of Cardiogenesis and the integration of that company into CryoLife.
After my comments are completed Ashley will return to give you some financial guidance for the rest of the year.
After Ashley’s guidance comments are completed we will open the call up for questions.
At this time Ashley will review this mornings press release that discussed CryoLife’s second quarter in year to date results.
Thank you.
Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risks and uncertainties in our forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include the statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2011 that I’ll provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company's SEC filings including the risk factors section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2010 and our Form 10-Qs for the quarter-ended March 31 2011 and for the quarter ended June 30 2011 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
On the call today I will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can also find the comparable GAAP measures and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures in the press release that went out this morning.
A copy of which is contained on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
This morning we reported our results for the second quarter and first six months of 2011.
We set an all time second quarter revenue record $29.4 million.
Importantly gross margins expanded to 65% in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 61% in the second quarter of 2010.
I will have more on the improvement in margins later in my comments.
As of June 30 2011 we had $25.1 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted securities.
This includes $1.5 million received from the DOD for the development of BioFoam and $5.3 million in restricted securities.
Our balance sheet is strong and we remain well positioned to leverage our capital resources and cash flow from our more matured business segments to invest in complimentary products and technologies and high growth areas of cardiovascular surgery.
Net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $1.8 million or $0.07 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to $2.9 million or $0.10 per basics and fully diluted common share for the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding pretax transaction and integration expenses of $1.4 million related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities non-GAAP adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2011 was $3.3 million or $0.12 per basic and fully diluted common share.
Net income for the first six months of 2011 was $3.5 million or $0.13 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to net income of $4.9 million or $0.17 per basic and fully diluted common share for the second quarter of 2010.
Excluding pretax transaction and integration expenses of $2.6 million related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities non-GAAP adjusted net income for the first six months of 2011 was $5.7 million or $0.21 per basic and $0.20 for fully diluted common share.
Revenues from the Cardiogenesis product line are tracking slightly ahead of plan and were $1.2 million for the second quarter.
Revenues from sales of surgical sealants and hemostats which include BioGlue BioFoam PerClot and HemoStase were $13.4 million for the second quarter of 2011 compared to $14.1 million for the second quarter of 2010.
Surgical sealant and hemostat revenues were $27.8 million for the first six months of 2011 compared to $28.1 million for the first six months of 2010.
The decrease in overall revenues for the three and six-month periods for surgical sealants and hemostats were primarily due to a decrease in hemostat revenues.
However as compared to the prior year periods worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 4% for the second quarter and 2% for the six month period.
These increases were due to a combination of changes in foreign exchange rates increases in volume of milliliter sold and increases in average selling prices.
Steve will provide additional detail on some of the early and promising results for BioFoam and PerClot.
Vascular revenues decreased 2% for the second quarter of 2011 compared to the second quarter of 2010 but increase 2% for the first six months of 2011 compared to the first six months of 2010.
As compared to the prior year unit shipments vascular tissues decreased 1% for the quarter and increased 1% for the six month period.
Cardiac revenues for the second quarter of 2011 decreased 2% compared to the correspondent period 2010 and decreased 4% for the first six months of 2011 compared to the corresponding period in June 2010.
As compared to the prior year unit shipments of cardiac tissues were up 2% for the quarter and flat for the six month period.
In July we made an equity investment in ValveXchange a privately held company that is developing a lifetime tissue valve replacement system.
This agreement gives us the first right of refusal to acquire ValveXchange.
This investment is consistent with our strategy to invest and differentiate a technologies that address large growing segments of the cardiovascular market.
Their first generation system is complementary to our cardiac tissue business and fits well with our expertise and sales channels in the surgical valve replacement markets.
Additionally ValveXchange also has minimally invasive tabi[ph] under development.
The leverage is the same technology as the first generation system and has substantial promise.
As I previously mentioned total gross margins were 65% and 61% for the second quarters at 2011 and 2010.
Total gross margins were 63% and 60% for the first six months of 2011 and 2010.
Gross margins for both periods were favorably affected by an increase and preservation services gross margins primarily resulting from decreased units sales associated with increased manufacturing throughput and increases surgical sealants and hemostat margins were resulting from product mix.
The Cardiogenesis product line generated gross margins of 78% during the second quarter.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the second quarter of 2011 were $13.7 million compared to $11.7 million for the second quarter of 2010.
The second quarter of 2011 included approximately $1.4 million in cost related to our acquisition Cardiogenesis and other business development activities.
We expect to complete the integration of the administrative and support functions related to our Cardiogenesis acquisition during the third quarter at which time we expect to close our Irvine California facility.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the first six months of 2011 were $28 million compared to $25.5 million for the first six months of 2010.
Expenses for the first six months of 2011 included approximately $2.6 million in cost related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities.
Expenses in the first six months of 2010 included approximately $550 000 in business development activities.
R&amp;D expenses were $1.6 million and $1.2 million for the second quarters of 2011 and 2010.
R&amp;D expenses were $3.4 million and $2.5 million for the first six months of 2011 and 2010.
R&amp;D spending in 2011 primarily focused on PerClot SynerGraft tissues and products BioFoam and BioGlue.
The effective income tax rate for the second quarter of 2011 was 52% which primarily results from transaction expenses for the Cardiogenesis acquisition that are not deductable for tax purposes.
You may refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions and factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
Now I will turn it back over to the Steve.
Thank you Ashley.
Clearly we are making progress on our goal to expand our business in the high growth areas and drive to a also higher margin product such as BioGlue PerClot and Cardiogenesis.
We believe we have positioned the company for improved performance and our second quarter results are only scratching the surface in terms of reaching that potential.
I now like to give you an update on some specific results and milestones related to these products that are indicative of both our initial traction and growth potential.
As you will recall we announced the BioGlue’s approval in Japan on October 7 2010.
We initially estimated that we would sell about $600 000 of BioGlue in Japan for the first twelve months that it was on the market.
We are very pleased to tell you that during the first six weeks BioGlue was on the market in Japan we sold over $500 000 of BioGlue to Century Medical our exclusive distribution partner in Japan.
This vastly exceeds our and our distributor's expectations.
Japanese BioGlue sales in early July continue to be strong and demonstrate that the product is being well received.
BioGlue is also doing very well in Brazil where our distributor is on track by a $1 million during calendar 2011.
Sales of BioGlue in Brazil have increased from $150 000 for 2005 to about $1 million in 2011.
BioGlue is projected to comprise 40% of company’s sales in 2011.As you will recollect BioGlue’s gross margins are in excess of 80%.
We are also very pleased with the early European market acceptance of PerClot.
During the second quarter of 2011 sales of PerClot in Europe increased by 76% over the sales of HemoStase a product we formally distributed for the same timeframe a year earlier.
Sales of PerClot for the first six months of 2011 in Europe were $1 271 000 versus $721 000 of HemoStase for the same period in 2010.
In our opinion PerClot is a more effective product than HemoStase.
We believe that PerClot is a second generation powdered hemostatic agent and the doctors are genuinely pleased with what it does on the surgical setting.
Sales in Australia have also been excellent.
During the first quarter conference call we stated that we had filed our US IDE for PerClot with FDA.
The FDA had a number of questions and comments regarding our initial IDE submission.
We have been addressing the FDA’s issue and are working on our responses.
It’s important to note that HemoStase’s gross margin were 55% and that when approved in the United States we will replace that product with PerClot whose gross margin will be an excess of 80%.
I believe that PerClot sales will be a revenue and earnings growth engine for CryoLife going forward.
On May 17 we announced that we had completed the acquisition of Cardiogenesis Corporation of Irvine California.
Cardiogenesis markets a Holmium laser system which includes the Holmium YAG laser council on single use fiber-optic hand pieces for performing Trans-Myocardial Revascularization a procedure known as TMR.
TMR is used for treating patients with angina or chest pain that does not respond to the standard medication.
We believe that the acquisition of Cardiogenesis is highly complimentary to our vascular and cardiac reconstruction business.
The assimilation of the experienced Cardiogenesis direct sales team has been completed and has served to nearly double CryoLife’s cardiac surgery specialist sales force.
We have fully trained the CryoLife sales force on TMR and our reps began selling the product in July.
In only six weeks of revenue contribution from Cardiogenesis through the end of June we were able to generate $1.2 million with gross margins of about 78% putting us on track to meet our expectations for the remainder of the year Cardiogenesis had sales of about a $11 million in 2010 and about $3.1 million in Q1 of 2011.
We estimate that the total US market for Cardiogenesis products is about a $175 million.
Patients undergoing treatment with Cardiogenesis products have been shown to have angina reduction longer event free survival reduction in cardiac related hospitalization and increase exercise tolerance.
The product and procedure are approved in the United States and Europe and it is Medicare reimbursable.
Cardiogenesis has also developed a PHOENIX combination delivery system which is designed to combine the intramyocardial delivery of biologic materials with TMR.
The synergy of injecting biologic such as stem cells or growth factors with TMR may increase the angiogenic response and the associated clinical efficacy of TMR in treating ischemic heart disease.
The stem cells would be recovered from the patients own bone marrow and then spun in a centrifuge to concentrate the cell prior to their being injected into the patient’s heart.
We anticipate conducting a 30 patient perspective single arm multi-center investigation at three to four sites in the EU.
These patients will have class four angina with an injection fraction of greater than 30%.
We believe that we will have the investigators selected by October of this year with an investigators' meeting to be held in December 2011.
We anticipate that the study will begin in April 2012 and that the enrollment will take approximately one year with six month follow up.
In addition to the EU study we anticipate requesting a pilot IDC study in the United States some time in 2012.
The pilot IDE study would be for up to 15 patients at three to four sites and would be followed by a larger pivotal study.
We believe that the acquisition of Cardiogenesis is highly complimentary to our vascular and cardiac reconstruction business.
The new product line that we have added PerClot and Cardiogenesis all have gross margin near or greater than 80%.
Both of these new products passed the approval of BioGlue in Japan places and markets that are expanding in low double digit and that will add expansion and muscle to our operating margins.
That concludes my comments and now I will turn the call back over to Ashley for his financial guidance for the rest of the year.
We are maintaining our expected total revenue guidance for the full year of 2011 between $122 million and $125 million which includes revenues of between $500 000 and $1 million related to the use of funds received from the US Department of Defense in connection with the development of BioFoam.
We expect tissue processing revenues to increase between low single and mid single digits on a percentage basis in 2011 compared to 2010; combined BioGlue and BioFoam revenues to increase most single to mid single digits on a percentage basis in 2011 compared to 2010; and revenues from powdered HemoStase including PerClot and HemoStase to be between $5 million and $6 million.
We expect revenues from the Cardiogenesis product line to be between $4 million and $5 million in 2011.
We expect R&amp;D expenses to be between $10-$12 million in 2011.
And we expect earnings per share of between $0.23 and $0.27 in 2011 excluding the effects of any potential acquisitions or other business development cost during the second half of 2011.
Excluding transactions and integration expenses related to the acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development charges that were approximately $.05 per share incurred in the first six months of 2011 and the effects of any potential acquisitions or other business development cost during the second half of 2011 we expect a non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share of the between $0.28 and $0.32 in 2011.
We expect the effective income tax rate for the second half of 2011 to be in mid to upper 30% range excluding the effects of any potential acquisitions during the second half of 2011.
We believe we are successfully executing on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through our internal development and business development activities.
Looking forward we have several key milestones that we expect to complete in the upcoming months.
One is re-filing our PerClot IDE and will begin with clinical trials late this year or early next year positioning us to potentially enter the US market with the next generation hemostat by 2014.
Begin human trials in the EU using the TMR procedure in conjunction with autologous stem cells and continue evaluating potential acquisitions that will allow us to enter (inaudible) high growth segments of the cardiovascular market and accelerate growth of the company.
That completes my comments and I’ll turn back over to Steve.
At this time you’ll open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Couple of things on the preservation services again the underlying dynamics there.
Is it more of a supply issue or demand issue that you guys at this point? I would say it’s more of a demand issue.
I think we have adequate supply to meet any demand that we might have for our products with a perceivable future.
Okay and then on Cardiogenesis on the guide realizing it was a May acquisition how much actual contribution thinking about time or number of days did you have in Q2? I think we closed on that acquisition around May 17 I believe.
So it was right at a month and a half in the second quarter that we actually had that product line.
Okay and so anything with the underlying performance there that makes you more or less enthusiastic about products for the rest of the year? I think right now that it’s tracking according to plan.
I think as it’s trending right now we’re probably looking at being at or near and hopefully above that the top end of our guidance and if that’s in fact the case and then we’ll come back and address that in the third quarter call but things are going according to where I’m right now.
Great and then maybe one last one from me just on the acquisition pipeline you guys mentioned you are still going to be active.
Can you give us the sense of  you know what the near-term pipeline looks like and I mean should we look for something at this year or you feel like you got enough on your plate? Thanks.
I think you should look for something additional this year.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matt Dolan with Roth Capital Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Just looking at a couple of this on a revenue side the base business is you mentioned demand there the previous question were there any maybe distractions related to Cardiogenesis acquisition that might have slowed things down there in the interim? And then another follow on why is the revascularization guidance so low relative to what you put in only set base?  I don’t think that we encountered any real significant distractions you know it was it’s an integration process and inherently those take some time to work through but I don’t think that we encountered any unexpected issues there.
As it relates to the guidance and I alluded to this when I answered Brooks at the second ago the things continue to trend the way they are then it looks like that we will be at the top end or hopefully above or owing to guidance.
And if the trends can continue then then we’ll come back and address our guidance in our next conference call.
Okay and then shifting to gross margin which is really strong in the quarter maybe you can just help us understand how that plays out especially as we layer in Cardiogenesis what’s like your number to think about going forward? If you look at the balance of 2011 I think the margins gross margins are going to be affected by product mix.
If you recall you know in the third quarter typically with Europe being on vacation BioGlue is a little bit less of our revenue mix as compared to the other quarter.
So it  probably would not surprise to see the margins trend downward slightly during the third quarter of this year but certainly above where they have been historically before the acquisition of Cardiogenesis.
I think longer term I think that we fully expect our margins to expand and potentially significantly.
With the addition of the Cardiogenesis product line those gross margins we anticipate being 80% or better going forward.
Once we get PerClot the manufacturing process transferred here and approved in the US that’s going to be an 80 plus percent gross margin product.
So longer term we fully expect to see margin expansion.
In the near-term we expect the margins to be better than they have been historically leading up to the acquisition of Cardiogenesis but its going to be effective some of our product mix and so that’s what we expect in the second half.
In addition to that we’re working hard on getting third quarter approved in Brazil and in Canada and we’re making good progress on that its just a matter of working our way through the bureaucracy that is involved in approval in those countries.
And so they should come on here in the next six to nine month and that products then would be looking at significant sales increases as a result of that.
And the success we’re having in Brazil was of course with BioGlue it is sort of piggyback on that.
And so I would expect with the larger volumes late this year and next year with PerClot that those margins probably will continue to increase.
Okay looking at that R&amp;D your expectations imply a doubling of spend on average in each of the next two quarters may be go out and see that.
Ashley is that is that the right way to think about it? Yes and again that’s largely going to be dependent on the timing of enrolment in the BioFoam IDE and how much progress we make on re-climbing the PerClot IDE in beginning enrollment in the fourth quarter.
So those numbers could prove to be a little bit high but it’s going to be largely dependent on the timing of getting these IDEs approved in beginning enrolment.
If you look at the two quarters for the balance of the year I think the expenses the guidance that we gave that the expenses would probably be a little bit skewed towards the fourth quarter as opposed to the third quarter.
Okay and then last one it is kind of point of clarification on adjusted EPS.
If I look at the adjustments you made in Q1 plus the adjustments in Q2 its greater than the $0.05 adjustment you are making on the guidance for the year.
So can you help us just put that all together and what’s included what’s not and those numbers? It’s all transaction and integration related costs predominantly related to Cardiogenesis and also other business development activities.
I think maybe with that $0.05 maybe not including some of the taxes that for the second quarter you know the tax rate in the second quarter is 52% and that $0.05 may not include any effect related to that abnormality in the tax rate that result in the second quarter.
So you are calculating on annual basis for the four year guidance versus what we have seen $0.08 here today? I have to look at that a little bit more detail Matt and get back to you on that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Raymond Myers with Benchmark.
Please proceed with your question.
The first one is actually for Steve.
You were talking about the $500 000 of BioGlue that sold in Japan already six weeks.
How much is that is stocking orders? How can we think of that as in terms of the run rate? Of course they are doing their distribution network no question about that.
It’s hard for me to know though exactly how much of that is stocking order.
I know that they have been surprised as we have that of the repeat orders that they have made here I think they have made a total of about three large purchases in that short period of time.
Do you feel the sense of what you would expect to sell say in a 12 month period in Japan? Based on how we are dong I would put it as slightly over a million dollar.
Okay that’s pretty good.
Originally when we talked about BioGlue in Japan we thought that opportunity would be quite large and then you got approval there for a very specific (inaudible) indication that was about $10 million market.
Yes.
On the last call I asked you about this and you were a little more cautious at that time about Japan BioGlue sales because that market is small you said that you thought you would have to do an additional clinical study to enter the $150 million general surgical sealant market in Japan.
And I wonder are we being more optimistic now that we can broaden the use before having to do that study? I think it’s evident that the Japanese physicians are using it off label for other uses.
I think it’s too early.
I don’t happen to know where they are using it at this time but it’s obvious from the volume that they are using it an addition to and other places in addition to aortic dissections.
We are going to do an additional clinical study but we have the same exact approval from the FDA initially when we marketed that product in the States and of course and it ended up being used a lot for certain neurological indication and maybe that’s where it’s being used in Japan.
I would have to ask our distributor we happen to know that I don’t at this early stage.
I think it’s also fair to say to Ray that we are pretty early in the roll out right now.
So it certainly has exceeded our expectations at this point but may be a little bit too early to have a lot of market intel.
But I think that will you know as we continue to roll out over the next quarter to beginning a lot of that intelligence and we will probably be in a better position to know exactly what it’s going to look like over the next year to but we were certainly optimistic about it based on the performance today.
It’s good to see we are making progress in Japan and Brazil with BioGlue but if you take out the upside of both markets it would appear that the US BioGlue or perhaps its international is lower than might have been anticipated is that correct? No actually I think that US is probably trending close to where we had anticipated.
And in fact BioGlue is actually a little well ahead of plan for the four year today for companywide.
But I think that US (inaudible) it’s been you know we have had challenges there and we talked about those over the last several quarters but I think that that business is pretty much trending to where we expect it to be overall worldwide we are a little ahead of where we expected to be and that’s largely due to some of the successes that we are having in Japan and other international markets.
Okay that’s good to hear.
Then holding into that in the last call you were talked about competitive pricing pressures and I think particularly in US across several markets.
Can you update us on those? I think that those continue to persist and those are the things that we have been dealing with over the last several quarters and I think that we’ll continue to deal with over the next several quarters.
But we really haven’t seen any significant changes in the cost environment or competitive activities it still remains tough but what that means that you know we’re seeing some successes albeit and significant growth but we’re seeing successes in our legacy businesses.
One thing we can definitely say is that PerClot and BioGlue together in Europe give us an opportunity to bundle the adhesive hemostatic agent together in certain bidding situations and that definitely has been an advantage to us.
And I think it will continue to be an advantage to us going forward.
Once the PerClot is on the markets in the United States I would think that that type of bundling procedure for various hospitals or pharmacies would continue to give us an edge in the marketplace once it’s approved in the States but it’s certainly is helpful to us to be able to do that in Europe.
I’ll add to Ray that that and I alluded to this a little bit earlier in my comments.
Our legacy businesses are maturing and but they are profitable; they generate a fair amount of cash for us and they’ve allowed us to go out and execute on the business development front and invest our internal pipeline.
And if you look at over the next few quarters and the couple of years we see growth coming from a lot of these things that we’ve been able to execute on the acquisition of Cardiogenesis and we think that we’re going to see significant growth in PerClot international markets and with BioGlue in certain international markets.
So that’s where we see the growth coming from over the foreseeable future excluding any other things that we might be able to execute on the business development front.
One last thing did you update us on the BioFoam US IDE? No we’re still on the early very early stages of enrolling patients in that trial.
So that’s very early on.
Can you remind us how many patients you are trying to enroll and how many enrolled.
We are looking at doing I think 20 patients in a highlight study due the way that is currently designed.
It’s a two-year follow-up but we anticipate going to the FDA hopefully with six month data to allow us to move forward afford on pivotal study.
And how long do you think it will take to remove the twenty patients?  Longer than we had anticipated when we began the trial.
As I think related to in previous calls the inclusion criteria for the trial were restrictive and we have gone back to the FDA on a couple of occasions to get those criteria loosened.
They have done that once and we expect to hopefully get another accommodation that will allow us to expand the inclusion criteria so that we can get the enrollment going.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Mondillo with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Just real quick two questions.
What was the CapEx spend for the half year? CapEx?  About $1.2 million.
With the growth that you guys are seeing  in BioGlue and PerClot we assume to see an increase in CapEx going forward to support the growth that you are seeing? Not necessarily.
That’s one of the parts of our business that we think is very leverageable.
We have got the infrastructure here currently at our facility to ramp production for BioGlue.
We do not perceive any significant spend on CapEx for PerClot and getting that manufacturing process migrated to our US facility.
It’s going to be well less than $0.5 million in total to get that production facility up and running.
So you are not going to see anything significant.
And my other question was just on inventory.
I know that you guys have seen great growth in BioGlue and PerClot.
We expect also to pick up an inventory going forward.
It seems like inventory has kind of sink down a little bit from December.
Yeah I think we do pretty good job of managing our inventory levels for BioGlue.
I wouldn’t see anything significant and probably wouldn’t see a significant increase or ramp in PerClot inventory levels until we got an approval in the US.
Our next question is a follow-up question from the line Brooks West with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys just a quick follow-up on the R&amp;D spend.
Ashley I think you said 10 to12 million guidance for the year and here today you are only at 3.4-3.5.
I am wondering what’s the big delta is in the second half?  Anticipated enrollment in the BioFoam and PerClot IDEs predominately as well as some of the additional R&amp;D work that needs to be done on PerClot to support the IDEs mission.
So if the enrollment is delaying and likely the guidance for R&amp;D is high but we guided assuming that we will be enrolling special in fourth quarter this year.
Thank you.
Mr.
Anderson there are no further questions I would like to turn the call.
Alright well then we will close the call and thank you for joining us and we look forward to talking with you at the close of the third quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may discontinue your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife Third Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you.
Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s CEO.
And I would like to welcome you to CryoLife’s third quarter 2011 conference call.
With me today is Ashley Lee CryoLife’s CFO and Executive Vice President.
This morning we announced quarterly revenues of $29.7 million a 4% increase over the same period last year.
Our earnings for the third quarter were $0.07 compared to a loss of $0.11 in 2010.
BioGlue’s quarterly sales in Japan are ahead of our expectations again.
As we previously communicated we had predicted that we would sell $600 000 worth of BioGlue in Japan during its first 12 months on the market there.
Instead we had sold over $1 million of BioGlue in the first six months; it has been on the market in Japan.
We were also pleased with sales of $2.1 million of the Cardiogenesis products during the quarter.
The agenda for today’s call is as follows.
Ashley will discuss this morning’s press release in detail and by product.
He will update you on the integration of the Cardiogenesis acquisition into the CryoLife product line.
He will also discuss the first-in-man implant of three valve exchange valves in Paraguay and the timetable for the application for a CE mark for this valve.
I will discuss and describe our recent acquisition strategy and the reposition the company to a higher growth cardiovascular surgery products.
I will discuss our acquisition of PerClot a powdered hemostatic agent; it’s European sales success and our plans for filing an IDE for PerClot in the United States.
At this time Ashley will comment on this morning’s press release.
Thank you Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties in our forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include the statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions; hopes; beliefs; expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2011 that I’ll provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company's SEC filings including the Risk Factor section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2010 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs and in the press release that went out this morning.
On the call today I will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the comparable GAAP measures and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures in the press release that went out this morning.
A copy of which is contained on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
This morning we reported our results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2011.
Before getting into the details a few highlights of the quarter included the fact that we continued executing on our strategy to position the company in higher growth and larger addressable market opportunities with our investment in ValveXchange our ongoing integration of the Cardiogenesis acquisition and continued progress in rolling out PerClot in international markets while preparing for the resubmission of our IDE to being U.S.
clinical trails for PerClot.
We also had an all time third quarter revenue record of $29.7 million driven by strengthness in the recent acquisition of Cardiogenesis.
An increase in gross margins for the quarter compared to the prior year and a strong balance sheet which continues to position us to pursue business development opportunities to potentially accelerate the growth of our business.
As I previously mentioned we set an all time third quarter revenue record of $29.7 million.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
Total international revenues were up 33% in the third quarter compared to the prior year and up 27% for the nine month period compared to the prior year.
We saw strength across our international business on a quarterly basis compared to the prior year with tissue processing revenues increasing 18% combined BioGlue and BioFoam revenues increasing 36% and powdered hemostat revenues increasing 24%.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 10% for the third quarter and up 5% for the nine month period.
These increases were predominantly driven by volume increases particularly in Japan due to the recent launch of the product.
This was the largest year-over-year quarterly increase for BioGlue revenues since third quarter of 2008 and we continue to remain enthusiastic about the opportunity in Japan.
Total sales in the third quarter in Japan were $651 000 and year-to-date in Japan were approximately $1.2 million.
To-date approximately 250 surgeons have been trained and over 160 accounts have ordered product.
We expect another large order from Japan before the end of the year.
PerClot sales for the third quarter were $620 000 and were $1.9 million year-to-date.
We experienced some delays in getting PerClot approved in certain international markets and some competitive issues in the EU which leaves us to slightly lower our guidance.
However despite these delays our international revenues from the sale of powdered hemostats in the third quarter still increased 24% compared to the prior year and 55% for the nine month period compared to the prior year.
Based on the feedback we have received from customers we were optimistic that PerClot will be favorably received once we complete the registration and approval process in other countries.
Revenues from the Cardiogenesis product line were $2.1 million for the third quarter and $3.3 million since we acquired the product line in mid May of this year.
During the transition and integration of our sales force we were able to maintain the current level of disposable handpiece revenue which we viewed as critical.
Now that our sales force has been actively promoting the product for a full quarter we had the opportunity to reintroduce the technology to the marketplace; we believe that we will be able to grow in line with the guidance that we gave when we acquired Cardiogenesis which is in the low double-digit range.
We believe that PerClot and Cardiogenesis represent attractive top-line growth opportunities for the company going forward.
Vascular revenues were essentially flat with the prior year's quarter and increased 1% for the first nine months of 2011 compared to the first nine months of 2010.
As compared to the prior year unit shipments of vascular tissues decreased 1% for the quarter and were flat for the nine month period.
Cardiac revenues for the third quarter of 2011 decreased 5% compared to the correspondent period in 2010 and decreased 3% for the first nine months of 2011 compared to the corresponding period in 2010.
As compared to the prior year unit shipments of cardiac tissues were down 3% for the quarter and down 1% for the nine month period.
These amounts exclude pericardium that we procured in previous years for third-party to process the tissue for non-cardiac surgical indications.
Total gross margins were 64% and 53% for the third quarters of 2011 and 2010 and 63% and 58% for the first nine months of 2011 and 2010.
Gross margins for both 2011 periods were favorably affected by an increase in preservation services gross margins primarily resulting from decreased units costs associated with increased manufacturing throughput and due to a favorable product mix as surgical sealants and hemostats became a larger percentage of our business.
The Cardiogenesis product line generated gross margins of 77% during the quarter.
Cost of products at 2010 included $1.6 million write down of hemostats inventory.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the third quarter of 2011 were $14.7 million compared to $11.4 million for the third quarter of 2010.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the first nine months of 2011 were $42.7 million compared to $36.9 million for the first nine months of 2010.
We expect our G&amp;A expenses to be higher than they have historically been due to the addition of the Cardiogenesis sales and service personnel that we acquired in mid May.
The third quarter and first nine months of 2011 included $1.1 million and $4.1 million in cost related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities.
This includes cost associated with the specific business development opportunity that after thorough due diligence we have decided to discontinue pursuing.
We currently do not expect to close on any other business development opportunities for the balance of the year.
Also we largely completed the integration of the administrative and support functions related to our Cardiogenesis acquisition during the third quarter and closed our Irvine California facility during the third quarter.
R&amp;D expenses were $1.7 million and $1.6 million for the third quarters of 2011 and 2010.
R&amp;D expenses were $5.1 million and $4.1 million for the first nine months of 2011 and 2010.
R&amp;D spending in 2011 primarily focussed on PerClot SynerGraft tissues and products BioFoam and BioGlue.
Steve will provide some updates on the timing of our development pipeline.
The effective income tax rate for the third quarter of 2011 was 12% and 36% for the first nine months of 2011.
The rate in third quarter primarily results from the effect of a one-time benefit for 2010 tax deductions taken on our recently filed tax returns.
Moving forward we expect a normalized tax rate in the mid 30% range excluding the effects of any business development activities.
Net income for the third quarter of 2011 was $2 million or $0.07 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to a loss of $3 million or $0.11 per basic and fully diluted common share for the third quarter of 2010.
Excluding pretax transaction and integration expenses of $1.1 million related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities and applying the normalized tax rate non-GAAP adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2011 was $2.2 million or $0.08 per basic and fully diluted common share.
Net income for the first nine months of 2011 was $5.5 million or $0.20 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to net income of $1.8 million or $0.07 per basic and $0.06 for fully diluted common share for the first nine months of 2010.
Excluding pretax and integration expenses of $4.1 million related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities non-GAAP adjusted net income in the first nine months of 2011 was $8.1 million or $0.30 per basic and $0.29 per fully diluted common share.
As of September 30 2011 we had $26.4 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted securities which includes $1.4 million received from the DoD for the development of BioFoam and $5.3 million in restricted securities.
Our balance sheet is strong and we will remain well positioned to leverage our capital resources and cash flows from a more matured business segments to invest in complementary products and technologies in high growth areas of cardiovascular surgery.
You should refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
In July we made a equity investment in ValveXchange a privately held company that is developing a life time tissue valve replacement system.
They recently announced first-in-man implants of their vitality valve in three patients.
Our understanding is that all three patients are doing well and ValveXchange is making plans to begin efforts to obtain their approval of their valve technology in the EU.
Our agreement gives us the right of first refusal to acquire ValveXchange.
This investment is consistent with our strategy to invest in differentiated technologies that address large growing segments of the cardiovascular market.
Their first generation system is complimentary to our cardiac tissue business and fits well with our expertise in sales channels into the surgical valve replacement market.
Additionally ValveXchange also has a minimally invasive TAVI product under development that leverages the same technology as the first generation and has substantial promise.
We encourage you to visit their website for the most recent updates on their progress.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Steve.
Thank you Ashley.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2010 Ashley and I began an aggressive campaign to identify and buy undervalued or under financed products or companies that were focused on cardiac and vascular surgical products.
We were particularly interested in products that addressed complex cardiac and vascular repair.
We were interested in products or companies that had high gross margins and extensive market opportunities.
We were also very interested in leveraging our worldwide distribution network that is focused on cardiovascular and vascular reconstruction.
I think that we investigated about 12 to 15 products or companies.
As Ashley has discussed earlier in third quarter of 2010 we announced our first technology acquisition and that we have signed a worldwide manufacturing and distribution agreement for a unique powered hemostatic agent PerClot with Starch Medical of San Jose California.
PerClot is an ideal replacement for the hemostatic powder that we had been distributing worldwide.
The primary difference is that PerClot’s gross margin will be 80% whereas our previously distributed hemostatic agents had a gross margin of 50 plus percent.
PerClot and BioGlue give us the opportunity to sell these two hemostatic agents together in European markets and we are doing so successfully.
We estimate that the worldwide market for PerClot will be about $1.5 billion in 2014.
As you will recollect we filed our IDE for PerClot with the FDA in March of this year.
The FDA had questions about our submission that we have been addressing.
We will be reaching our IDE to the FDA in mid November.
We expect to begin the clinical trial for PerClot during the second quarter of next year.
The clinical trial will probably involve about 300 patients 150 PerClot patients and 150 control patients.
We expect that with six months enrollment and three months follow-up of these patients that we will file our PMA in the second quarter of 2013.
In May of 2011 we made our second technology acquisition when we acquired Cardiogenesis a publicly traded company that is focused on the treatment of patients with severe class 4 angina.
As Ashley discussed earlier Cardiogenesis fits perfectly in the company’s strategy to focus on products that are involved with complex cardiac reconstruction.
We continue to evaluate the administration of our autologous stem cells with the Cardiogenesis handpieces to access that this type of therapy will provide additional benefit to the patient with severe angina.
This product line addresses the total market of 175 million.
We expect Cardiogenesis to be accretive to our revenues and earnings in 2011 outside of our acquisition and integration cost as a result of its approximate 80% gross margin.
Ashley also discussed the first-in-man implant of ValveXchange heart valve.
The equity investment of $3.5 million in ValveXchange gave us an initial 19% ownership position in a unique heart valve replacement platform.
Further CryoLife will make available up to $2 million to ValveXchange an additional debt financing through a revolving credit facility.
We estimate the prosthetic heart $100 million worldwide.
It should be apparent to everyone that CryoLife has been in the process of restructuring our business model over the past 18 months.
The company’s cardiovascular surgical products and surgical adhesive are focused on the aging baby boomer population that comprises approximately 78 million people in the United States.
We are also focused on that doctor population that is involved in complex cardiac and vascular repair.
In the second and third quarters we have been focused on a potential medical device acquisition.
After thorough due diligence we have decided to discontinue those discussion.
We are not contemplating any additional company or product acquisitions in the fourth quarter.
We continue to be active in evaluating other corporate development opportunity and we will maintain a disciplined approach to acquisitions to ensure we were positively affecting shareholder value.
The criteria for this includes innovative products and technologies that will accelerate top-line growth that will focus on cardiac and vascular surgery for products or technologies that we can integrate into our global sales force and achieve leverage with our commercial and clinical infrastructure and above all transactions that have a clear path to shareholder value.
That concludes my comments.
And now I will turn the call back to Ashley for his financial guidance for the rest of the year and going forward.
We expect 2011 revenues to be slightly below $122 million which is the lower end of our previous total revenue guidance for the full year of 2011 of between $122 million and $125 million.
This guidance includes revenues of approximately $0.50 million related to the use of funds received from the U.S.
DoD in connection with the development of BioFoam.
We expect combined BioGlue and BioFoam revenues to increase in mid single digits on a percentage basis in 2011 compared to 2010.
Tissue processing revenues to be flat in 2011 compared to 2010.
And revenues from powdered hemostats including PerClot and HemoStase to be between $4 million and $5 million.
We expect revenues from the Cardiogenesis product line to be between $5 million and $5.5 million in 2011.
We expect research and development expenses to be between $7 million and $8 million in 2011 down compared to the previous expected range of $10 million and $12 million as a result of the shift in timing of certain R&amp;D expenses into 2012.
We expect earnings per share of between $0.23 and $0.25.
Excluding transaction and integration expenses related to the acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development charges of approximately $0.09 per share incurred in the first nine months of 2011 and accounting for normalized tax rate of 36% we expect non-GAAP adjusted earnings per share of between $0.32 and $0.34 in 2011 up from our previous range of guidance of between $0.28 and $0.32 per share.
We believe we are successfully executing on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through our internal development and business development activities.
Looking forward we have several key milestones that we expect to complete in the upcoming months.
One complete enrollment in our BioFoam IDE feasibility study in preparation for pivotal U.S.
clinical trial.
Two re-file our PerClot IDE in mid November and begin clinical trials next year positioning us to potentially enter the U.S.
market with the next generation hemostat by 2014.
Three initiate a European study of the phoenix autologous stem cell TMR system and file an IDE to begin human clinical trials in the U.S.
using the TMR procedure in conjunction with autologous stem cells.
And four continue evaluating potential acquisitions that will allow us to enter large high growth segments of the cardiovascular market and accelerate the growth of the company.
That concludes my comments and I will turn it back o Steve.
At this time we will open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Thank you.
Our first question is from Matt Dolan with Ross Capital Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Great.
First question on the guidance just looking at the revenue at this point it implies maybe around 10% sequential uptick in Q4.
So how far below $122 million should we expect or what gets you to that type of sequential uptick meaning is there a category that improves something on the macro level that rebounds?  We think that the upside is in the Cardiogenesis product line and the PerClot product line as well as potentially BioGlue in Japan.
Okay.
But given your guidance on those categories it still requires a pretty big sequential uptick?  Yeah well the possibility exists again that we could do better and then we expect to do better in Cardiogenesis PerClot and BioGlue in Japan.
And that -- we think that that’s we have more upside in those three areas than the rest of the business.
Okay.
And then on the earnings guidance just to clarify I think the delta between adjusted and GAAP last quarter was $0.05 as supposed to an $0.08 differential at mid year.
So I wanted to make sure that that’s the reason for the increase in the earnings guidance?  And secondly the implied guidance for Q4 cuts EPS basically in half.
So I’m just trying to understand why that would be?  The primary driver in non-GAAP the increase in non-GAAP EPS as compared to the end of the second quarter is primarily due to the shifting of some R&amp;D expenses due to some delays and getting some studies started as those will be shifting out of 2011 into 2012.
As it relates to the fourth quarter we provided for some additional expenses in the fourth quarter this year to account for the ongoing discovery and the acceleration of the discovery in our litigation with Metaphor.
Okay.
So I think about you’re exiting the year at a much lower EPS run rate?  What’s a normalized earnings number for the company is $0.04 or what we just saw here in Q3?  Well a lot of it’s going to be dependent upon how we perform up on the top-line.
It’s going to be dependent upon the timing and enrollment of clinical trials as well as the progress of what’s going on with the litigation with Metaphor.
So we’re anticipating giving our initial guidance for 2012 in our year-end conference call which is scheduled for February.
Okay.
And last one on Cardiogenesis I know it’s doing I think $11 million in the year before you acquired it.
Your guidance still puts you below that run rate.
Have you lost any revenue in that business or I know you mentioned it might be conservative? So maybe you could chalk it up to that? The one thing that we haven’t realized yet since we acquired Cardiogenesis is the sale of any consoles.
And one of the things that they had -- certainly had some sale of consoles in each of the previous two years.
Our focus has been primarily on going out and focusing on hospitals that already have consoles placed and trying to increase handset usage.
Our next question comes from the line of Raymond Myers with Benchmark.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Ashley.
Hello Steve.
What charges might we expect from the discontinuance of the potential acquisition.
Did that occur that decision to discontinue did that occur in Q3 or Q4 and what are the charges get placed?  That decision occurred late in the third quarter of this year.
In the third quarter we incurred roughly about $450 000 worth of expenses.
And over the course of the year we incurred close to three quarters of a million dollars in expenses related to the target that we were pursuing.
So nothing more in Q4?  We don’t anticipate anything more related to that particular target in Q4 and all that shows up in the G&amp;A line.
Okay great.
And then how much of the Japan BioGlue sales year-to-date has been stocking and how much is a reasonable run rate?  I think we’re a little bit to determine that Ray.
In the second quarter of this year we had roughly about $550 000 in revenue in the third quarter about $650 000.
We know that as we indicated in the comments there has been over 160 accounts that they have ordered certainly some other has been stocking but our distributor has been ordering from us regularly since they began.
So I think it will probably have more color on stocking as opposed to actual usage although the indications are that we’re getting a lot of usage of the product in Japan.
Yeah it’s good to hear.
What level of SG&amp;A and marketing expense should we expect as more of a normalized rate here in Q4 now that you’ve made the acquisition? Well if you look at the results for the third quarter which were about $14.7 million and we included I think that we indicated that there was about $1.4 million related to business development cost in the third quarter.
We also have brought on some additional.
So you would normalize it for that.
We’ve also brought on some additional infrastructure related to Cardiogenesis.
We essentially brought on their sales force of 10 to 12 people along with two or three other additional employees and roughly on an annual basis that being probably $3.50 million to $4 million of additional expense for that infrastructure that we brought on.
So if you want to go back to previous quarters say the second quarter probably adding about $4 million in additional G&amp;A is probably I would say normalized.
But what that doesn’t take into account is any acceleration and legal expenses associated with the ongoing Metaphor litigation.
And we expect that to accelerate starting in the fourth quarter of this year.
And that was going to be my next question.
So let’s get right to that.
Roughly how much Metaphor litigation expense should we expect? If you go through the end of the third quarter we had spent about $1.4 million and we’re expecting a similar amount in the fourth quarter of this year about $1.4 million.
And then going forward into 2012 as the litigations proceeds we’re going to have a better handle on what the 2012 levels are going to be and we’re going to be able to share that with you in our conference call in February of 2012 when we give our initial guidance.
Right great.
Is there is it reasonable to assume that that $1.4 million quarterly run rate would continue potentially throughout all of 2012 or is that drastically too high or low? It's difficult to say at this point.
A lot of it just depends on the scheduling with the courts and how it proceeds to the courts and that's inherently unpredictable.
So it's really kind of hard to say at this point.
But yeah I certainly I mean year-to-date including the fourth quarter we’re guiding to well maybe $2.8 million for all of 2011.
We wouldn’t expect it to be any less than that going into 2012 but beyond that we’re going to have more color on that in the year-end conference call.
Okay great thanks.
And then a question about the Phoenix stem cell delivery system.
Is that launched in Europe and if so how is that going? We had our first exhibition of the Cardiogenesis products at the EACTS in September and it was received very well.
There had been a CE mark issued for that product line some time ago but it had just never ever been distributed in Europe.
And we are in the early stages of setting up a pilot study in Europe for the autologous stem cell technology.
And when do you expect to start to commercialize that in earnest or get any revenue for the Phoenix system? I think what we would like to do is conduct this pilot study or this study 30-patient study in Europe and once we get the results of that actually we will have some data to begin rolling out and marketing the product in Europe.
So it will probably will be sometime in 2012 before we see any noticeable revenues from the Phoenix system in Europe.
Yeah how long will that pilot take to do? Excuse me Ray I didn't hear you.
When should the pilot conclude? Again that's going to be based on the rate of enrollment.
We hope it would be some time in the first half of the 2012.
But again it’s going to depend on the rate of enrollment.
Our next question is from the line of Joe Munda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question Couple of quick questions here.
I was wondering if you can you give us a little bit of color on the acquisition that you didn't go through and why you didn't go through was it more of a evaluation or was the technology that you didn't find beneficial to you guys? That decision was really based around our technological evaluation of the product.
Can you give us what was the nature of the product? Can’t answer that question.
Okay.
All we can say is that it was consistent with our strategy to locate cardiovascular surgical products.
Okay and in terms of your investment in ValveXchange $3.5 million 19% and you guys have said that you would provide $2 million in credit facility for the company.
With that did you increase ownership of the company if you guys were to provide that credit facility for them? No would not.
And my other question was in regards to cardio and vascular were flat this year is that more to future demand or were is there new players entering the market that you’re seeing? I think it’s primarily due to the issues that we’re seeing with cost containment at hospitals.
There are some competitive activities that are going on there.
There aren't any new players particularly in the market but it’s hospitals under pressure to go out and find the lowest cost option.
What would be the alternative?  That’s really what… There is a not for profit entity based in Virginia that's our primary competitor in the Allograft tissue space.
So that's one thing the primary competitor there.
But a lot of it just comes from the environment that we’ve been operating in it’s nothing new now as compared to the last several quarters it’s a very challenging environment for hospital spending.
Okay and then actually just one more follow-up to before.
You guys have PerClot revenues going $4 million to $5 million right now you -- for the first nine months at $1.9 million.
What is going to jump that to that $4 million to $5 million?  Is it a new order or I know you talked about investing in other markets but really what is the driving that (inaudible) $4 million to $5 million? The $45 million includes revenues from HemoStase also that we distributed in the first quarter of this year.
So the $4 million to $5 million is combined covered hemostat revenue which includes PerClot and HemoStase.
We have no further questions in the queue at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us for the third quarter.
And we look forward to meeting with you in February of 2012 for our year-end conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2011 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions)  As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you.
Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone and welcome you to CryoLife’s Q4 and fiscal year 2011 conference call.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife's President and CEO and with me today is Ashley Lee the company's Executive Vice President CFO and COO.
This morning we reported record revenues of $119.6 million and earnings $0.26 for the year ended December 31 2011.
We achieved these results while also making substantial investments in business development and in our share buyback program and we still achieved our sixth consecutive year of solid profitability.
The agenda for today's call is as follows: Ashley will discuss this year's financial performance in detail.
He will comment on the progress being made in the stock buyback program.
I will comment on the technology and corporate acquisition that we made during the year.
After my comments have been completed Ashley will return with financial guidance for 2012 that will include top line and bottom-line projections for this year.
At this time Ashley will discuss this morning's Q4 and year-end 2011 earnings release.
Thanks Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include the statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions; hopes; beliefs; expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2012 that I’ll provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company's SEC filings including the Risk Factors section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2010 our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs our Form 10-K for the year ended 2011 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
On the call today I will discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures.
You can find the comparable GAAP measures and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable GAAP measures in the press release that went out this morning a copy of which is contained on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
This morning we reported our results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011.
Before getting into the details a few highlights of the quarter and year.
We continued executing on our strategy to position the company in higher growth in larger addressable market opportunities.
Achievements to this end include the launch of BioGlue in Japan our ongoing integration of the Cardiogenesis acquisition completed in May 2011 our investment in ValveXchange and continued progress in rolling out PerClot in international markets while preparing for our IDE to being U.S.
clinical trails.
We achieved an all-time revenue record of $30.4 million driven by strength in the BioGlue business and the recent acquisition of Cardiogenesis.
Our gross margins for the fourth quarter expanded approximately 350 basis points compared to the prior year which combined with prudent expense management contributed to solid bottom-line results and our strong balance sheet continues to position us to pursue business development opportunities to potentially accelerate the growth of our business while at the same time repurchase shares of our common stock.
As I previously mentioned we set an all-time quarterly revenue record of $30.4 million.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
Total international revenues were up 6% in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year and up 21% for the full year compared to the prior year.
We saw strength across all parts of our international business on a full year basis compared to the prior year with tissue processing revenues increasing 17% combined BioGlue and BioFoam revenues increasing 19% and powdered hemostat revenues increasing 23%.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 3% for the fourth quarter and up 4% for the year.
These increases were predominantly driven by volume increases particularly in Japan due to the recent launch of the product in April 2011.
We continue to remain enthusiastic about the opportunity in Japan.
Total sales in the fourth quarter in Japan were $869 000 and 2011 sales in Japan were approximately $2 million.
PerClot sales for the fourth quarter were $617 000 and were $2.5 million in 2011.
We will continue to expect growth in PerClot revenues in international markets over the coming years as new international markets are opened up.
Based on the feedback we’ve received from customers we are optimistic that PerClot will be favorably received once we complete the registration and approval process in other countries.
Additionally we are working towards a potential PMA approval which we continue to expect no later than 2014.
Revenues from the Cardiogenesis product line were $2.4 million for the quarter and $5.7 million since we acquired the product line in mid May this year.
We held our first TMR training session in November of 2011 and showcased the product line at the recent STS Meeting in Fort Lauderdale.
Based on the feedback we’ve received we continue to remain excited about this opportunity and believe that as we’re able to conduct more training sessions later this year we will be able to achieve the low double-digit growth on an annualized basis that we predicted when we acquired Cardiogenesis.
We believe that Cardiogenesis PerClot and BioGlue in Japan represent attractive top-line growth opportunities for the company in 2012 2013 and beyond.
Vascular revenues increased 17% compared with the prior year’s quarter and increased of 5% for the full year.
The growth was driven by 14% increase in unit shipments for the quarter and 3% increase in units for the year.
Cardiac revenues for the fourth quarter of 2011 decreased to 6% compared to the corresponding period in 2010 and decreased 5% for the full year.
As compared to the prior year unit shipments of cardiac valves and patches were down 7% for the quarter and down 3% for the year.
Total gross margins were 64% and 60% for the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010 and were 63% and 58% for the years ended 2011 and 2010.
Gross margins for both 2011 periods were favorably affected by an increase in preservation services gross margins primarily resulting from decreased unit cost associated with increased manufacturing throughput.
Also contributing was a favorable product mix of surgical sealants and hemostats and the Cardiogenesis product line which in aggregate became a larger percentage of our business.
Cost of products for 2010 included a $1.6 million write down of HemoStase inventory.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $14.6 million compared to $12.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the full year of 2011 were $57.3 million compared to $49.1 million for 2010.
The full year of 2011 included approximately $4.2 million in cost related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities.
G&amp;A also increased in the fourth quarter in full year to support sales personnel in ongoing operations of Cardiogenesis.
The fourth quarter and full year of 2011 include approximately $842 000 and $1.9 million respectively in cost related to ongoing litigation.
We expect our G&amp;A expenses to be higher than they have historically been due to the addition of the Cardiogenesis sales and service personnel that we acquired in May 2011 and ongoing litigations spending which is expected to increase in 2012 as compared to 2011.
R&amp;D expenses were $1.8 million and $2 million for the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010.
R&amp;D expenses were $6.9 million and $5.9 million for the full years of 2011 and 2010.
R&amp;D spending in 2011 primarily focused on SynerGraft tissues and products PerClot BioFoam and BioGlue.
Net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $1.9 million or $0.07 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to a net income of $2.1 million or $0.08 per basic and diluted common share.
Net income for the full year of 2011 was $7.4 million or $0.26 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to net income of $3.9 million or $0.14 per basic and fully diluted common share for 2010.
Excluding pre tax transaction and integration expenses of $4.2 million related to our acquisition of Cardiogenesis and other business development activities non-GAAP adjusted net income for the full year of 2011was $10 million or $0.35 per fully diluted common share.
As of December 31 2011 we have $27 million in cash cash equivalents in restricted securities.
This includes $1.2 million received from the DOD for the development of BioFoam $5 million in restricted securities and reflects $1.4 million in the stock buyback purchases made during the fourth quarter.
For the full-year the company bought back $2.9 million of the company stock underscoring our enthusiasm for the company’s strategic initiatives and growth opportunities.
The company’s net cash flows provided by operations were $16.8 million for the full-year of 2011.
Our balance sheet is strong and we remain well-positioned to leverage our capital resources and cash flow from our more mature business segments to invest in complementary products and technologies in high-growth areas of cardiac and vascular surgery.
You should refer to your SEC filings for detail discussions the factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-K that we plan to file shortly.
Now I will turn it back over the Steve.
Over the past 20 months or so Ashley and I have been involved in acquisition and present product-line growth initiatives.
Our core tissue and surgical adhesive business produces excellent cash flow and our intent is to acquire innovative products or technologies with compelling market opportunities in the areas of cardiac and vascular surgery where we can leverage our commercial and clinical infrastructure.
In September of 2011 we announced the finding of a worldwide distribution and manufacturing agreement for PerClot a novel second-generation powered surgical hemostatic agent manufactured by Starch Medical of San Jose California.
PerClot which has received a CE mark for distribution with the European Union in a perfect complement to the company’s BioGlue surgical adhesive and we will have gross margin of around 80% when commercial sales begin in United States.
PerClot stops bleeding quickly and is fully biodegradable within 48 to 72 hours.
PerClot BioFoam and BioGlue enable our European marketing team to bundle our surgical adhesives to hospital buying groups and effectively give the hospital a one-stop shopping opportunity for surgical adhesives and hemostatic agents.
International sales of PerClot in 2011 were $2.5 million.
We are forecasting sales of between $3.5 million and $4.5 million in 2012 a 50% to 75% increase over 2011 sales.
And we anticipate filing or IDE application with the FDA within the next several weeks.
We expect rapid enrollment in the trial followed by potential FDA approval and U.S.
launch in 2014.
We estimate the worldwide market for a powdered hemostat like PerClot to approach $1.5 billion by 2014.
In April 2011 we announced the Japanese regulatory approval for BioGlue.
Japan is the second largest market in the world for surgical adhesives and hemostats.
We initially estimated our Japanese sales for the first nine months that BioGlue is on the market in Japan to be about $600 000.
Instead we sold approximately $2 million worth of BioGlue to our Japanese distributor in the first nine months it was on the market and sales have continued to be strong in the first weeks of 2012.
Based on the strong reception for BioGlue in Japan we are working with our distribution partner to gain additional indications for the product in order to expand the Japanese market opportunity.
We expect 2012 sales of BioGlue in Japan to exceed $4 million.
BioGlue has a gross margin of 80%.
In May of 2011 we announced the acquisition of Cardiogenesis a manufacturer of lasers and single use fiber-optic hand-pieces used in cardiac surgery for Transmyocardial Revascularization or TMR of patients with severe refractory angina.
This product line fits perfectly into our focus on products and therapies for complex cardiac reconstruction procedures.
This acquisition was accretive in 2011 excluding acquisition and integration cost and provides an attractive growth opportunity for a product with gross margins of approximately 80%.
Sales of Cardiogenesis products for the seven and a half months we were selling it in 2011 were $5.7 million.
Sales in the fourth quarter were $2.4 million.
In 2012 we are forecasting sales of between $10.5 million and $11.5 million driven by increased physician training programs on the TMR procedure and further cross-selling by our integrated cardiac sales force.
Outside of the United States we plan to initiate a multi-center study in Europe to evaluate the effective injecting autologous stem cells into the myocardium in conjunction with the TMR procedure.
If the study shows that the addition of biologics enhances the clinical results we will have made a major first step in expanding the market opportunity for TMR from $175 million to nearly $700 million with Biologics.
In July of 2011 we announced 19% equity investment in ValveXchange a heart valve technology platform that is a spinout from the Cleveland Clinic.
What is unique about the ValveXchange heart valve is that it consists of a Docking Station that is sewn into the valve orifice and the actual leaflet set is then snapped onto the Docking Station.
If the leaflets need to be replaced in the future the surgeon can access the Docking Station and with an instrument set snap out the original leaflets and snap in a new set of leaflets.
In September 2011 ValveXchange successfully performed their first in-man surgeries; E3 implants were performed in Paraguay by a group of local and American surgeons.
All patients are progressing as expected.
They anticipate at initiating a European clinical trial beginning in Q2 2012 which will be used to support a future CE mark application.
CryoLife has the right of first refusal to acquire ValveXchange and the right to negotiate for distribution in Europe.
Ashley and I are still involved on a day-to-day basis in additional corporate development activities with a particular focus on innovative technologies focused on cardiac and vascular surgery.
Those product areas hit are technical and distribution suite spots and we would expect them to generally have gross margins in excess of 80%.
We are particularly interested in LVAD mitral valve repair AFIB transcatheter and wound closure devices.
That concludes my comments and now I’ll turn the call back to Ashley for his 2012 financial guidance.
We expect 2012 revenues to be between $126 million and $129 million representing growth of 5% to 8% over 2011.
This guidance includes revenues of approximately $500 000 from funds received from the U.S.
Department of Defense to develop BioFoam.
Revenues from the tissue processing segment are expected to be flat in 2012 compared to 2011.
Revenues from the company’s higher growth higher margin product segment are expected to grow between 10% and 15% for the full year of 2012.
We expect combined BioGlue and BioFoam revenues to increase in low to mid single digits on a percentage basis in 2012 compared to 2011 and PerClot revenues to be between $3.5 million and $4.5 million in 2012.
We except revenues from the Cardiogenesis product line to be between $10.5 million and $11.5 million in 2012 which represents growth of 9% to 19% if you annualize our fourth quarter 2011 revenues.
We expect research and development expenses to be between $10 million and $12 million in 2012 in order to support the clinical and regulatory advancement of BioFoam PerClot and Cardiogenesis.
We expect earnings per share of between $0.14 and $0.18 in 2012 which includes the increased R&amp;D expenses along with increased legal expenses related to the company's ongoing litigation of medical work.
The company's earnings per share guidance excludes expenses related to business development and the effect on earnings per share and potential share repurchases which cannot currently be estimated.
We have estimated litigation expense conservatively on the high end because litigation expenses are extremely variable and not easily predicted.
Going forward we expect a normalized tax rate in the mid 30% range excluding the effects of any business development activities.
We believe we are successfully executing on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by investing and expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding sales and marketing and executing on business development opportunities.
Internal investments include maintaining and expanding the sales force with key personnel expanding position training programs for new products such as TMR and rebranding the company as we expand our product portfolio to establish CryoLife as a more valuable and innovative part of the surgeons' product offerings.
We believe these internal investments in the sales and marketing infrastructure and pipeline will generate accelerated top-line growth over the next several years.
Looking forward we have several key milestones that we expect to complete in the upcoming months that will demonstrate progress in our strategic initiative to expand the company's market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
One refile our PerClot IDE and begin clinical trials later this year positioning us to potentially enter the US market with a next generation hemostat no later than 2014.
Two gain regulatory approval for PerClot in additional international markets and commence commercialization.
Three initiate a European study of the phoenix autologous stem cell TMR system.
Four complete enrolment in the BioFoam IDE feasibility study in preparation for a pivotal US clinical trial.
Five expand our TMR physician training and education programs and drive growth in system placements and procedure volume and six continue evaluating potential acquisitions that will allow us to enter large high growth segments of the cardiac and vascular surgery markets and accelerate the growth of the company.
That concludes my comments and I will turn it back over to Steve.
At this time we will open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) Our first question is coming from Matt Dolan from Roth Capital Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys this is Chris on line for Matt.
How are you doing? Hey Chris how are you? Good.
Just looking at your EPA -- EPS guidance for next year we understand the impact of your incremental R&amp;D investment but if we just stop the one-time charges associated with the Cardiogenesis deal it looks like you’re losing some leverage on the SG&amp;A line as well.
Just wanted to know does that all stem from higher legal expenses by which our math looks like around $3 million in added cost for the year or are there some other investments in that SG&amp;A side that we should think about for the year? The two primary factors that are increasing G&amp;A year-over-year one is we’re going to have a full year of fully staffed Cardiogenesis sales force with CryoLife.
So that’s one thing that’s driving the growth and the expenses there.
And the other quite frankly is the litigation.
We have included a -- what we think is a very conservative budget for litigation expenses in 2012 which has resulted in what we believe as conservative EPS guidance for 2012.
Okay.
And then in terms of the cadence of investments you generated $0.07 in the fourth quarter.
Guidance assumes a quarterly run rate of $0.04 at the midpoint for next year.
How should we think about the progression of these investments and therefore EPS throughout the course of the year? Okay.
We believe that the second and third quarters will be a heavy spend quarters for us as it relates to the litigation.
The discovery process is starting to ramp up right now.
And we think that a large part of the increase incremental increase in litigation expenses will incur during the second and third quarters of this year.
As it relates to everything else it should be fairly ratable throughout the year as it relates to the additional cost for the Cardiogenesis sales and marketing infrastructure.
Okay.
And then last question given all you have going on in the R&amp;D front here and considering you’re buying back some stock are you still looking at acquisitions this year I know you kind of mentioned that in your comments.
And if so what is the timing and your financial capacity to execute on a deal? We’re still looking at additional acquisitions and we’re in the early stages of evaluating two other acquisitions.
I couldn’t give you an idea of the timing those things kind of move ahead on there own timeframe.
But I would expect that we would probably do one more acquisition this year.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Raymond Myers from Benchmark.
Please proceed with your question.
could you give us some sense of what your EPS guidance for 2012 would be if you were not spending anything on litigation? Well I’ll tell you what we have conservatively budgeted for litigation for this year.
We could spend as much as $5 million to $6 million on litigation this year.
So if an opportunity presented itself to settle some of these issues on terms that are acceptable to us that number could prove to be very conservative.
Excellent that’s very helpful that number.
Next maybe Steve could outline a little bit more about the clinical trial program for BioFoam.
What progress have we made in the last say six months and what exactly are the milestones like going forward to get BioFoam in the market? Well we have only recently began enrolling patients in the United States.
And I would think that the enrollment process will take a good part of this year.
And I think then that we should expect that product to get approved towards the end of 2013 early 2014.
Okay.
And what is the expenses budgeted for BioFoam clinical trials? That’s going to be largely variable rate this year and highly dependent upon enrollment rate.
Right now I mean it could be as high as a couple of million dollars for the remainder of this year if that we do end up spending that much then the grant revenue associated with that particular project would be substantially higher than the $500 000 that we guided towards.
We didn’t expect that BioFoam would be strong enough to handle cardiovascular pressures and it has turned out that a few physicians in Europe have used it for cardiovascular indications.
And so we are in the early stages of setting up an expended indication to our regulatory body in the UK -- I mean not the UK but Europe to get us a cardiac indication for that product and if we are successful in doing that the potential for BioFoam expands greatly.
Okay excellent.
What specifically is the next step to get in the BioFoam US IDE pathway? They have to complete the enrollment of the initial patients.
How many patients are involved now and how many do we need and when do we expect that to be complete? We are currently in the feasibility pilot study right now Ray we got a couple of people enrolled right now.
We are going to enroll up to 20 patients in the pilot study.
One key event that we are looking towards that will we believe significantly accelerate enrollment is we have an amendment that we believe an amendment to the protocol that we believe will be implemented in April of this year.
And once we get that amendment implemented we think that the enrolment is going to increase significantly.
Then that’s the critical step I think that we are looking for.
That in April and then we accelerate enrolment and hopefully complete the study within a few months after that is that correct? Yeah.
Right now the FDA has indicated that we need to follow-up these patients to an extended period of time related to the what they want to see which is the degradation of the particular product.
We are hopeful that they are going to allow us to shorten the follow-up not have to wait for the full follow-up period to begin the favorable study.
So we expect to make some progress during this year in the BioFoam IDE.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any further or closing comments.
All right.
Thank you for joining us for this conference call and we look forward to speaking with you again to discuss our first quarter 2012 results.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife First Quarter 2012 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you sir you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife's President and CEO and welcome you to CryoLife’s first quarter 2012 conference call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the company's Executive Vice President COO and CFO.
This morning we announced all time record revenues for first quarter $32.3 million and delivered net earnings $991 000 or $0.04.
This represents 7% growth over the comparable period a year ago including strong (inaudible) growth higher margin products.
During the first quarter just concluded continued international sales of our powdered hemostat PerClot (inaudible) also continuing to progress.
BioGlue sales were up 14% over the first quarter a year ago primarily as a result of strong sales in Japan of $1.3 million.
Cardiogenesis sales were $2.1 million for the first quarter; international revenues were strong up 21% over the same period a year ago.
The agenda for today's call is as follows: Ashley will discuss this morning's press release in detail and will comment on our progress by product line.
He will also bring you up to date on our continuing corporate development efforts.
I will discuss the filing of our IDE for PerClot in the United States and outline the parameters and time table for the clinical trial and the approximate anticipated approvable date.
I will discuss our HDE submission for the SynerGraft process decellularized aortic valves.
After my comments are completed Ashley will return to update you on our guidance for the rest of the year.
At this time Ashley will comment on this morning's press release.
Thanks Steve.
To company with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 I would like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include the statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2012 that I’ll provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factors section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year ending December 31 2011 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2012 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
This morning we reported our results for the first quarter of 2012.
We achieved an all-time quarterly revenue record of $32.3 million driven by strength in the BioGlue business and the recent acquisition of Cardiogenesis.
Our gross margins for the quarter expanded 460 basis points compared to the prior year and our strong balance sheet continues to position us to pursue business development opportunities to potentially accelerate the growth of our business while at the same time repurchasing shares of our common stock.
As I previously mentioned we set an all-time quarterly revenue record of $32.3 million up 7% year-over-year.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
Total international revenues were up 21% in the first quarter compared to the prior year.
Total product segment revenues grew 14% to $16.5 million.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 14% for the first quarter.
This increase was predominantly driven by volume increases early in Japan due to the recent launch of the products in April 2011.
We continue to remain enthusiastic about the opportunity in Japan and have received positive feedback and new orders from our distribution partner.
PerClot sales for the first quarter was $644 000.
We continue to experience some headwinds in the EU due to austerity programs and competition but we continue to expect growth in PerClot revenues in international markets over the coming years.
This will be driven by geographic expansion in new international markets as we broaden our EU sales focus beyond cardiac and vascular surgery.
We have received positive feedback on the usage of PerClot in the EU for neurosurgery and prostate surgery and believe these are growth opportunities for us.
Additionally we are working towards the potential USPMA approval which we continue to expect no later than 2014.
Steve will provide additional details on the PerClot timeline in his remarks.
Residents from the Cardiogenesis product line were $2.1 million for the first quarter.
We continue to press forward with our TMR training programs and believe that we’ll see low double-digit growth for this business as we train additional surgeons.
We believe that BioGlue in Japan Cardiogenesis and PerClot represent attractive top line growth and margin expansion opportunities for the company this year and in 2013 and beyond.
Cardiac tissue revenues for the first quarter of 2012 increased 8% compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
As compared to the prior year unit shipments of cardiac tissues went up 1% for the quarter.
Vascular tissue revenues decreased 6% compared to the prior year's quarter on a 3% decrease in units for the quarter.
Total gross margins were 66% and 61% for the first quarters of 2012 and 2011 respectively.
Gross margin in 2012 were favorably affected by an increase in preservation services gross margins which was a result of increased manufacturing throughput.
Also contributing with a favorable product mix of surgical sealants and hemostats in the Cardiogenesis product line which carries an approximate 80% gross margin.
The higher margin products combined became a larger percentage of our business.
General administrative and marketing expense for the first quarter for 2012 were $18 million compared to $14.3 million for the first quarter of 2011.
G&amp;A increased to support the sales personnel and ongoing operations of Cardiogenesis which we acquired in May 2011 plus additional cost associated with our national sales meeting and a heavy industry conference schedule.
The 2012 first quarter also includes approximately $1.7 million in cost related to ongoing litigations and an increase in reserves for lawsuits.
R&amp;D expenses were $1.7 million and $1.8 million for the first quarters of 2012 and 2011 respectively.
R&amp;D spending in 2012 primarily focused on PerClot BioFoam and Synergraft tissues and products.
Net income for the first quarter of 2012 was $1 million or $0.04 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to net income of $1.7 million or $0.06 per basic and fully diluted common share.
Litigation related expenses negatively impacted EPS by approximately $0.04 and $0.01 in the first quarter of 2012 and 2011 respectively.
As of March 31 2012 we had $26.5 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted securities compared to $27 million at December 31 2011.
This includes $1.1 million received from the DOD for the development of BioFoam and $5 million in restricted securities.
Our balance sheet is strong and we remain well-positioned to leverage our capital resources and cash flow from our more mature tissue preservation segments to invest in complimentary products and technologies in high growth areas of cardiovascular surgery.
You can refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
Now I’ll turn it back over the Steve.
On March 30 we submitted our revised IDE application for PerClot powdered Hemostat to the FDA.
The IDE protocol includes 300 surgical subjects across a maximum of 10 investigational centers randomized to receive an application of PerClot or Surgicel which is the similar marketed haemostatic device.
There will be a 150 subjects in the control group and a 150 subjects in the PerClot group.
The trial has been designed in order to support an approval for use of the product in multiple surgical disciplines.
We expect that we will be able to enroll all 300 patients by the end of Q1 2013 and as the patient follow up time will be three months.
This positions us to submit our clinical data in the third quarter of 2013.
Gaining FDA approval for PerClot will give CryoLife a next generation hemostat with high gross margins addressing the largest segment of the projected $1.5 billion worldwide market opportunity for powdered haemostatic agents in 2014.
In order to support the PerClot US clinical trial and potential approval we are working to complete the technology transfer for Starch Medical and expect to initiate manufacturing of the product for our clinical trial at our headquarters facility in Georgia in approximately June of this year.
We expect a gross margin for PerClot to be north of 85% after we receive FDA approval in 2014.
PerClot is the perfect compliment to our surgical adhesive BioGlue as it controls active bleeding and then biodegrades within above 48 hours.
By offering hospitals the opportunity to bundle BioGlue and PerClot we will have a distinct competitive advantage.
In February of this year we submitted a humanitarian device exemption or HDE application to the FDA for our Synergraft process aortic valve which is intended to be used for the replacement of diseased damaged malformed or malfunctioning native or prosthetic aortic valve in children from new born to 21-years of age.
We estimate that up to 1500 children per year could benefit from this technology if the company is successful in obtaining an HDE.
We expect to have a response to this application from the FDA around June of this year.
We have marketed Synergraft processed pulmonary valves since they were cleared by the FDA in February of '08.
Since that time we have had more than 1400 valves implanted.
We are currently conducting a post clearance study to collect long-term clinical data for the SynerGraft processed pulmonary valves.
Previous studies have shown a reduced risk for generating an immune response to the valve.
Hemodynamic results in published actuarial explant trends and continue to look positive and the company believes the information obtained from the post-clearance study may help determine whether the CryoLife process also extends the long-term durability of pulmonary valve.
Based on these results we are encouraged by the potential role SynerGraft processed aortic valves may play in the treatment of aortic valve disease.
We will be holding our Annual Shareholders Meeting at our corporate headquarters on May 16<sup>th</sup> at 10 o' clock in the morning.
All of the seven present directors have been re-nominated.
That concludes my comments.
And now I will turn the call back to Ashley for his financial guidance for the rest of the year.
We are reiterating our guidance for 2012.
We expect 2012 revenues to be between the $126 million and $129 million representing growth of 5% to 8% over 2011.
This guidance includes revenues of approximately $500 000 related to the use of funds received from the US Department of Defense in connection with development of BioFoam.
Revenues from the tissue processing segment are anticipated to be flat in 2012 compared to 2011.
Revenues from the company's higher growth higher margin product segment are expected to grow between 11% and 16% for the full year of 2012.
We expect combined BioGlue and BioFoam revenues to increase in low to mid-single digits on a percentage basis in 2012 compared to 2011 and PerClot revenues to be $3.5 million and $4.5 million.
We expect revenues from the Cardiogenesis product-line to be between $10.5 million and $11.5 million in 2012.
We expect R&amp;D expenses to be between $10 million and $12 million in 2012 in order to support the clinical and regulatory advancement of BioFoam PerClot and Cardiogenesis.
We expect earnings per share of between $0.14 and $0.18 in 2012 which includes the increased R&amp;D expenses along with increased legal expenses related to the company's ongoing litigation.
The company's earning per share guidance excludes expenses related to business development and potential share repurchases which cannot currently be estimated.
We have estimated litigation expense conservatively on the high end of the anticipated range of between $5 million and $6 million because litigation expenses are extremely variable and are not easily predicted.
Going forward we expect a normalized tax rate in the mid 30% range excluding the effects of any business development activities.
We believe we are successfully executing our own strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by investing and expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding sales and marketing and executing a business development opportunities.
Internal investments include maintaining and expanding the sales force with key personnel establishing and expanding physician training programs for new products such as TMR and repositioning the company as we expand our product portfolio to establish CryoLife as a more valuable and innovative part of the surgeon stool kit.
We believe these internal investments in the sales and marketing infrastructure and pipeline will generate accelerated top-line growth over the next several years.
Looking forward we have several key miles especially in the upcoming months that will demonstrate progress in our strategic initiative to expand the company's market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
One initiate enrolment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial during the third quarter positioning us to potentially enter the US market with the next generation hemostat no later than 2014.
Two gain additional regulatory approval for PerClot in new international markets and commence commercialization.
Three expand our European sales and marketing coverage for PerClot to include surgical specialties in addition to cardiac and vascular surgery.
Four complete enrollment in the BioFoam IDE feasibility study in preparation for pivotal US clinical trial.
Five expand our TMR physician training and education programs and drive growth in system placements and procedure volume.
Six initiate a European study for the phoenix autologous stem cell TMR system.
And seven continue evaluating potential acquisitions that will allow us to enter large high growth segments of the cardiovascular market and accelerate the growth of the company.
That concludes my comments and I will turn it back over to Steve.
At this time we will open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator instructions).
Our first question is from Daniel Garofalo with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
And just first off congrats on the quarter.
I just wanted first off talk about the product revenues strong quarter there.
Is this a catch up relative to last few quarters?  Or did you notice any specific pickups in procedure volumes or this marketshare gains that took place?  Can you just maybe give us a sense for what are some of the factors for that number? Yeah well I think the primary factor contributing to the success that we have in the top line was the fact that we had BioGlue in Japan in the first quarter of this year compared to the first quarter of last year.
In addition to that we had Cardiogenesis in the first quarter of 2012; that’s compared to 2011 also.
The other areas of our business I think overall we're seeing maybe a slight uptick in procedure volumes that’s compared to what's going on over the last year or two.
But I think more importantly that the results that you're seeing on the top line in 2012 are really a result of the strategy that we've undertaken in the last 18 to 24 months which is to gain additional approvals in geographic areas like we did in Japan and look on executing on business development opportunity as a means to accelerate the growth of the company.
We think that we're beginning to see that.
Great and just one follow up.
You had mentioned TMR physician training and I was just wondering if you could expand on that and give us a sense for how that process is progressing? Since we held our training session in November of last year we've trained a total about 15 surgeons.
We have held additional meetings with surgeons not official training session but meeting with surgeons sharing the clinical data with them and informing them about the TMR procedure.
We got four additional in-house training sessions scheduled for the balance of this year and it's going about as expected right.
And we think that again as we continue this process that we will begin to see the type of low double digit growth that we thought we were going to get when we closed on the transaction.
We have monthly physician training classes here in our headquarters facility that are usually between four and eight physicians over a two-day period usually a Friday and a Saturday.
And then we've also had many requests from teaching institutions to put our training efforts out on the road.
And so it seems that we’re having a resident training program at least once a month at a major institution in the United States and of course we're doing some training in our convention booth and this is a pretty I would have to say expensive time for medical congresses around this time of the year.
So we're seeing a lot of doctors there.
So the training function for physician is greatly expanding here at CryoLife and we're getting very good response to that.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks for taking my questions just a few short ones.
What was the timing of the Qs as far as being filed?  It will be before the end of the week.
Okay.
Could you talk about the $1 million cost incurred for the technology transfer from Starch medical?  Was the incurred in the quarter or is that next quarter or was that already incurred?  A portion of it was paid last year when we began the technology transfer agreement and the balance of the payment which is I think roughly $600 000 is going to be paid very shortly here or has just recently been paid.
That will be capitalized and amortized over a period of time.
Okay.
Could you talk about the anticipated trial with PerClot and Surgicel as far as any end points or is this a non-inferiority trial?  A non-inferiority trial.
I was back in R&amp;D yesterday for quite some time and observing the manufacturing process of PerClot and we have a pilot shop set up at the moment and that was going extremely well.
And I think that by June of this year or sometime during June we're going to have a much larger facility set up over in building two over there.
We have a fairly sizable clean room suite that will be converted into PerClot manufacturing and so that will be running beginning in June to support our clinical trial.
Okay that’s helpful.
Could you talk about the size of the sales force currently?  Did it grow in the past quarter and are there plans to continue the growth rate forward?  Well in round numbers we have about 50 sales reps.
We have about 28 that sell BioGlue and vascular grafts and probably I'd say 12 to 15 do cardiac tissue and BioGlue.
And then we have we're direct in Austria the UK Germany and recently in Ireland.
I think that there's a In Ireland.
I think that there is a really good chance that we are going to expand our sales force in the United States sometime in this year and particularly if we are successful in making another acquisition then generally speaking some salesmen will come along with that acquisition.
Got it.
Okay.
Ashley a comment on legal expenses.
They are 1.7 for the quarter and you said previously potentially 5 to 6 for the year so is that going to be loaded more toward the first three quarters do you expect?  Yes.
It will definitely be loaded more towards the first three quarters.
Okay.
Got it.
And lastly I suppose you are not going to tell me but will you or are you going to break up BioFoam as a on a revenue line on its own?  We have not done that in this particular quarter but the BioGlue revenues and BioFoam revenues for the first quarter were a little less than a couple hundred thousand dollars.
We're in the process of expanding the indication for BioFoam in Europe into a cardiovascular indication and I don't really know when that will have but it's going to happen before the end of this year.
And so we will expand our CE mark to include cardiovascular procedures.
Right now it is approved for sealing parenchymal organs.
And the reason that we did that initially was that it was quite an easy CE mark to get because suturing lacerated organs is very difficult and we found there was an unmeet need for a product like BioFoam in that area.
And then some other physicians in Europe were using BioFoam in cardiovascular indications and we realized that it was strong enough to handle aortic type pressure which surprised us but we did some additional testing and we decided that we would go forward in it get a CE mark for the use of BioFoam in cardiac and vascular reconstruction.
So I would think that the volume of BioFoam would increase significantly towards the end of this year.
Okay.
And I would assume that at some point with potential revenue ramp you would break it out but we see that in the future.
So lastly gross margins and did you comment I mean is this going to be a trend up at these levels?  Do you think this is sustainable or is this seasonal?  At our current levels margins really can be affected by revenue mix and obviously the higher percentage of our business that BioGlue and TMR are of our total business the better our margins are going to be.
Longer term as we continue to grow our TMR business and we get PerClot approved in the U.S we think that we have got the opportunity to continue expanding our gross margins on a long term basis.
Our next question comes from the line Matt Dolan with Roth Capital Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
How are you? Yes thanks the first question is on BioGlue obviously there is a strong -- when you talk about the guidance and the growth rate implied in the guidance I think that we are doing the numbers right it looks like the absolute revenue number for that product line is actually would average at a lower basis on what we saw in Q1 so was there anything abnormal about the first quarter or why would that be the case? We are continuing to see momentum into the second quarter; the second quarter is going very well.
With that being said we are one quarter into the year we are very optimistic and excited about the revenue performance in the first quarter.
If things continue to go well into the second quarter we will reevaluate our top line guidance and if we need to revise that upward at the end of the second quarter then we will.
Okay that's great.
And then secondly just to follow up on the gross margin question I understand where you are headed long term and how you get there but what should we anticipate in the near term it sounds like BioGlue could remain strong and some mix could be consistent and therefore as mid or slightly above mid-60s doable for the rest of the year.
Yeah we think absolutely for the balance of the year you know mid-60s is absolutely doable.
Okay and then you know I think we have got a good handle on legal as it relates to spend and the cadence through the year maybe you can just help us on overall spend I know you are investing in a number of programs this year compared to what we saw in Q1 to how that kind of plays out throughout the remainder of 2012.
Okay well you know the litigation feature is obviously hard to predict you know their maybe an opportunity to settle some of this litigation during the second quarter of this year that remains to be same but you know if we have the opportunity to do that then obviously you would see a significant decrease related to legal spend for the balance of the year.
If you look at the first quarter of 2012 we think that there will probably up to close to a $1 million in expenses that are -- we think specific to the first quarter we took the opportunity to update a lot of our hope at marketing materials due to the repositioning of the company over the last 18 to 24 months.
So we incurred some cost to do that and I think that you know you are not going to see those recurring throughout the balance of the year so you know there is an opportunity that you know absent litigation that our G&amp;A expenses could and marketing expenses could be you know three-quarters of a million to a $1 million lower on a quarterly basis going forward.
Okay with saying that and the BioGlue dynamics has a good chance that you could also exceed on the bottom line it sounds like – We always hope to.
Okay and then finally Steve I think you eluded this a little bit but where are you on pursuing further business development activities at this stage and again how near term could things be? We are engaged with president in talking with cardiovascular type company and I can't predict if we are going to close the deal or not if we were to close it we probably close in the next 90 days.
Okay great it was very helpful guys thanks a lot.
Mr.
Anderson have no further questions at this time I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Well thank you everyone for joining us and we look forward to talking with you after the second quarter.
Ladies and gentleman this does concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO of CryoLife.
Thank you Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone this is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s President and CEO and I would like to welcome you to the CryoLife’s third quarter conference call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the company’s Executive Vice President COO and CFO.
This morning we announced all-time record revenues of $33.4 million for the third quarter a 13% increase over the third quarter of last year.
Revenues for the nine months ended September 30<sup>th</sup> were also our record $98.9 million and 11% increase over the same time frame in 2011.
Earnings for the third quarter were $0.06 per share and for the nine months ended on September 30<sup>th</sup> were $0.21.
This excellent result was a result of the successful implementation of the corporate development strategy that was initiated two years ago.
This strategy has successfully positioned the company into the higher growth and higher margin markets in the areas of cardiovascular surgery and end-stage renal disease.
With the acquisitions that we have made over these last two years we have significantly broadened our addressable markets to include pediatrics adults and aging baby boomers.
We have a more comprehensive set of medical device products and are leveraging our global sales force to reach cardiac and vascular surgeons and we continue to look for ways to augment our product offerings.
The agenda for today’s call is as follows Ashley will review today’s press release and will comment on each product’s growth and our full year expectations for those products.
He will update you on the status of the clinical trial valve exchanges conducting in Europe and the potential timetable for their achieving a CE Mark as well as an update on discussions that we have began regarding the potential distribution of their valve in the EU.
He will also update you on the launch of the HeRO Graft for end-stage renal disease and our plans for manufacturing that product in our new manufacturing facility on the Georgia Tech campus here in Atlanta.
I will comment on our expansion plans for the Asia-Pacific area and the growth opportunities that we see in those markets.
I will also provide an update on the submission timing for our revised IDE for PerClot and the approximately approval cycle.
Finally I will review our continued corporate growth initiatives and our effort to identify products and companies that we can acquire in the end-stage renal disease space to support our strong sales growth with the HeRO Graft.
After my comments are completed Ashley will discuss our financial guidance for the full year of 2012.
At this time Ashley will comment on today’s press release and earnings report.
Thank you Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I’d like make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include the statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2012 that I’ll provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factors section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year ending December 31 2011 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30 2012 and September 30 2012 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
A reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP measures are contained on our website.
This morning we reported our results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2012.
We achieved an all-time quarterly revenue record of $33.4 million driven by year-over-year increases in most of our lines of business and by the recent acquisition of Hemosphere.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
Total product revenues grew 15% to $16.9 million.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 5% for the third quarter.
This was driven by volume increases in international markets primarily Japan.
PerClot Sales increased 18% to $734 000 for the third quarter compared to last year’s quarter and increase 6% sequentially from the second quarter of 2012.
We believe our focus on markets in the EU where we sell directly is starting to pay off.
As we expand our international selling efforts beyond cardiac and vascular surgery to other medical specialties and as we continue to open new markets for PerClot we expect that we will continue to experience revenue growth for this product.
Revenues from the Cardiogenesis product line were $2.1 million for the third quarter essentially flat with last year.
Revenues from the sales of disposable handsets increased 18% in the third quarter as compared to the second quarter of 2012.
We believe these results were driven by the programs recently implemented to drive procedure volumes.
Revenues from the sales of the HeRO Graft are $1.4 million inline with our expectations.
We launched the HeRO Graft with our broader 36% sales force last month.
We expect to see the results of our expanded selling effort over the next couple of quarters.
Total tissue processing revenues grew 12% to $16.4 million driven by a 22% increase in cardiac tissue revenues resulting from an 18% increase in unit shipments and a 3% increase in vascular revenues resulting from a 3% increase in unit shipments.
Total gross margins were 64% for the third quarters of 2012 and 2011 gross margins for the first nine months of 2012 were 64% versus 63% in the prior years first nine months.
Margins for the nine month period were favorably affected by an increase and preservation services gross margins.
Gross margin also benefited from an increased mix of our higher margin products including surgical sealants and hemostats the HeRO Graft in the Cardiogenesis product line.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the third quarter of 2012 were $16.5 million up 12% from the third quarter of 2011.
G&amp;A increased primarily due to an increase in marketing expenses including costs of our expanded sales force and increases and spending on advertising partially offset by a decrease and litigation expense.
R&amp;D expenses were $1.8 million for the third quarter of 2012 compared to $1.7 million in the prior year.
R&amp;D spending in 2012 was focused on PerClot the HeRO Graft SynerGraft tissues and products BioFoam and revascularization technologies.
Net income for the third quarter of 2012 was $1.5 million or $0.06 per basic and fully diluted common share.
Net income for the third quarter of 2012 included $796 000 in business development and integration charges primarily related to the acquisition of Hemosphere and $130 000 in litigation expenses.
Excluding these charges on a pro forma non-GAAP basis earnings per share would have been $0.08 in the third quarter of 2012.
Pro forma non-GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2011 would have been $0.09.
As of September 30 2012 we had $13.1 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
This includes $740 000 received from the Department Of Defense for the development of BioFoam and $5 million in restricted cash and securities.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry almost no debt and continue to generate cash.
Based on the strength and predictability of cash flow during the quarter we initiated a quarterly dividend of $0.025 per share with the first payment made to shareholders on September 21<sup>st</sup>.
We are pleased to be able to return a portion of our profits to shareholders while continuing to build shareholder value through our share buyback program and our investments in organic and acquisition growth opportunities.
I have a few more updates on various subjects.
Regarding to Hemosphere acquisition we continue with our efforts to consolidate the manufacturing operations to Atlanta.
We recently leased a small footprint at Georgia Tech that will serve as our primary manufacturing site for the HeRO Graft and certain portions of PerClot manufacturing as well as serve as back up manufacturing space.
We remain on track to relocate the HeRO Graft manufacturing to Atlanta around the end of 2012.
In September we launched the HeRO Graft through our 36% sales force focused on vascular sergeants and nephrologists.
We expect that later this year into early next year we will begin seeing the expanded selling effort pay off in higher HeRO Graft revenues.
For our TMR business we have initiatives underway designed to accelerate growth.
We have initiated more robust training and education programs for positions interested in the technology.
We’re also establishing a clinical registry that we believe will track important data about the clinical utility of TMR and potentially place more opinion leading sergeants on the podium talking about the procedure.
Lastly we expect to launch a new handpiece the Pro 8 in 2013.
Pro 8 is specifically designed for a less invasive standalone TMR procedure via a thoracoscopic approach.
In regards to valve exchange we’re pleased to report that they initiated their EU clinical study in September which could potentially lead to a CE mark during the second half of 2013.
We recently began initial discussions with valve exchange on EU distribution for which we own the rights.
For more information about their progress we encourage you to visit their website or contact them directly.
During the quarter we also made the decision to discontinue our U.S.
BioFoam IDE and pilot study.
Even with the protocol amendments that the study design it was extremely difficult to recruit patients to the restricted due to the restrictive inclusion exclusion criteria.
To be good stewards of public funds we made the decision to terminate the study and we will be returning the unspent funds to the DOD.
This decision will not have any impact on our revenue guidance in this net neutral to our bottom line.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we planned to file shortly.
And now I’ll turn it back over to Steve.
With the approval BioGlue in Japan and subsequent launch in May of 2011 our revenues in the Asia-Pacific region had been steadily rising over the past two years.
Our business in the region has increased 93% from 2011 to 2012 with the majority of the growth and expansion in Japan.
We have been pleased with these results and believe there is an excellent opportunity for continued growth in the region.
We are in discussions with the potential partner in the People’s Republic regarding a distribution agreement for BioGlue in China.
To better support our existing business and marketing and sales initiatives in Asia we have made the decision to expand our physical presence in the Asia-Pacific region by relocating a CryoLife Sales and Marketing Executive to Singapore after the first of the next year.
This executive will be responsible for developing new distributors throughout Southeast Asia as well as being a liaison with our current distributors in the region.
This person will also be responsible for our efforts to establish distribution in China.
We are also adding a contract Sales and Marketing Executive in Thailand.
The distribution network will address Asia-Pacific markets we estimate to be between $110 million and $140 million per year.
Turning to our U.S.
business we continued to make progress in our IDE submission to FDA for PerClot’s clinical trial.
We now expect the IDE to be filed with FDA in November with the clinical trial to begin in quarter one of 2013.
We expect enrollment of the 400 patients to take about eight months with a follow-up period of 30 days.
So we would expect to file our PMA application towards the end of 2013 with FDA approval some time in 2014.
We are also planning a regulatory strategy for PerClot in Japan in conjunction with an approval in the United States.
The manufacturing facility for PerClot has been completed at our corporate headquarters and will be ready for our IDE clinical trial which we expect to begin in the first part of next year.
We have completed three manufacturing lots of PerClot that will be used in our U.S.
clinical trials.
These manufacturing lots have been packaged and have been sent to the sterilizer.
When they return from the sterilizer they will be tested and if they pass they will be placed in finished goods inventory and will be ready to be shipped to our investigative sites upon the approval of the IDE.
As we face in the regulatory approvals over the next few years in other countries such as Canada and Brazil this manufacturing facility has the capacity to serve those additional markets.
We are continuing our corporate development activities and are focusing on leveraging our recent acquisition of the HeRO Graft by adding complementary products that have the same cull points as the HeRO Graft business.
This includes products in the AV access and end-stage renal disease areas.
We have recently met with several companies on these product areas and are in continuing discussions with them regarding potential business development opportunities.
In conjunction with certain vascular surgery consultants our physician training department has been developing the curriculum and selecting a faculty for our first end-stage renal disease summit that will be held here at our corporate headquarters next spring.
We expect the faculty will be international in scope and will attract experts in the treatment of end-stage renal disease from around the world.
Our physician training department has also been working on a curriculum and a faculty for our Cardiovascular Surgery Fellows Program that will be held here at CryoLife in the fall of 2013.
The fellows program will replace our Annual Ross Procedure Summit which will now be held in alternate years.
This initiative should help us develop professional relationships with future cardiovascular surgeons as they work their way through their resident and fellows programs at the various medical schools throughout the U.S.
That concludes my comments and now I’d like to turn the call back over to Ashley so that he can give you some financial guidance going forward.
We are increasing our financial guidance for the full year of 2012.
We expect revenues for the full-year of 2012 to be between $131 million and $133 million which includes revenues of approximately $500 000 related to the user funds received from the U.S.
Department of Defense in connections with the development of BioFoam.
This represents annual total revenue growth of 10% to 11% up from our previous guidance of 8% to 11%.
We expect tissue processing revenues to increase in mid single-digits on a percentage basis for the full year of 2012 compared to 2011 up from our previous guidance of low to mid single digit percentage increases.
Revenues from our higher margin product segment are expected to grow between 12% and 15% for the full-year of 2012.
The updated product revenue guidance includes expectations for BioGlue and BioFoam revenues to increase in the mid single-digits on a percentage basis in 2012 compared to 2011 and PerClot revenues to be between $2.7 million and $3 million.
We expect revenues from revascularization technologies to be between $8 million and $8.5 million in 2012.
We expect HeRO Graft revenues to be between $3.2 million and $3.6 million in 2012.
Turning to expenses we expect general administrative and marketing expenses for the full-year of 2012 to be between $65 million and $66 million which includes approximately $2.5 million of integration cost resulting from the acquisition of Hemosphere in May 2012.
Research and development expenses are expected to be between $7 million and $8 million as a result of our investments in our U.S.
clinical trials for PerClot and continuing investment in the HeRO product line in SynerGraft.
We expect earnings per share for the full-year of 2012 to be between $0.25 and $0.27 which includes transaction and integration charges of approximately $2.5 million.
This compares with prior year 2012 GAAP earnings per share guidance of $0.20 to $0.23.
We expect the effective income tax rate for the full year of 2012 to be on the upper 30% to 40% range.
Now I’d like to make a couple of comments about medical device tax for 2013.
Based on our current understanding domestic sales of our medical devices will be subject to the device tax beginning in 2013.
We believe the device tax for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2012 would have been approximately $250 000 and $700 000 respectively.
Of course since the regulations implementing the medical device excise tax are not final all of this information is subject to the final regulations and further interpretation.
Finally we believe we are continuing to successfully execute on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding and leveraging our sales and marketing and executing on business development opportunities.
Looking forward we have several opportunities to expand the company’s market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
These include one to drive revenue growth in the HeRO Graft through our recent launch and our broader US direct sales force.
Two initiate enrollment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial in the first quarter of 2013 and gain additional marketing approvals in new international markets.
Three expand our European sales and marketing coverage for PerClot to include other surgical specialties in addition to cardiac and vascular surgery.
Four potentially gain expanded indications for BioGlue in Japan.
Five building on our commitment to the Asia-Pacific region by gaining distribution partners for other products in new markets such as China and Southeast Asia.
Six drive our TMR business through our physician training and education programs.
Our clinical registry increased system placements as well as launching the [inaudible].
Seven continuing our planning discussions with ValveXchange on the European distribution of their exchangeable valve product with the potential for initial European product launch as early as the second half of the 2013.
If we execute on the initiatives we will be in a good position to drive top line growth on our higher margin medical products and further leverage our operating infrastructure to improve profitability.
That concludes our comments.
I’ll now turn it back over to Steve.
At this time I will open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you our first question comes from Mr.
Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
How are you doing? Hey Jeff how are you? Good morning.
Good morning.
So no guidance for 2013 at all yet at this point? No you know our normal convention is to release that guidance as part of our year end conference call.
Got it.
Regarding the litigation expenses do you expect any for Q4? Nothing significant at this point.
All of our major litigation has been resolved and we are not expecting anything significant at this point.
Go it.
And could you review for us the stock repurchase plan that’s in effect as far as what the total is or the balance and when that goes [inaudible] I see that there was – you purchased a few shares during the third quarter? Yeah you know we typically purchase our shares under our 10D5 [ph] plan and we recently had one in place.
We have a current authorization that extends up through the middle of December and we currently have the authorization to purchase I think up to maybe a little over $10 million more under that repurchase plan.
I significantly doubt that we will purchase $10 million in shares between now and the middle of December.
At that time that authorization will expire.
Okay.
So theoretically a new one will come into effect.
The board will probably consider that later this year.
Okay.
The $500 000 from the DOD for BioFoam where does that exist? That’s on your balance sheet now? No that $500 000 is actually revenue.
So that is actually moneys that we have spent to-date on that plan.
We currently have a little over $700 000 in cash that we have received from the DOD and in all likelihood we will be returning that plus maybe a little bit more at some point when that study has been formally terminated.
So what might that look like for the fourth quarter as far as returning moneys? There will be no P&amp;L impact.
If we return the funds to the DOD we would simply – again it would be probably a little over three-quarters of a million dollars and return that amount to the DOD.
Okay got it.
No P&amp;L impact.
Okay.
So apart from the study you are terminating so don’t expect to hear anything more about BioFoam for the U.S? For the U.S now I will say that we continue to make progress on expanding the indications for BioFoam in international markets to remind you.
We filed to expand the indications for cardiac in vascular surgery and we remain optimistic that we are going to be able to get an expanded indication for that product in international markets.
Okay got it.
And do you expect to be present at an exhibit or any scientific conferences like Beeth [ph] or ISAC [ph] over the next couple of quarters? We typically will attend the – there are a few conferences beginning early next year for instance STS AATS is typically sometimes in April and we will certainly be at those.
We are going to be increasing our presence at surgical conventions significantly in 2013 as a result of the acquisition of HemoSphere.
I don’t have that list of congresses at my fingertips but I believe they are on our website and you can look and see which ones we will be attending.
Okay.
Could you talk a little bit about the decision to have a facility at Georgia Tech as far as – is that for redundancy purposes or because you are at full capacity in the main facility or why was that made? We are not at full capacity here.
But the initial decision was made to have a redundant facility in case of the fact that we got hit by a tornado here and that I wanted to move some of our inventory our preserved tissue inventory off-site here and have an alternative site.
There was a company there a good sized pharmaceutical type company that went out of business and their whole facility which was probably – I would say 30 000 40 000 sq.
feet was available for lease and it’s a beautiful space and pharmaceutical grade clean rooms and we decided to take 10 000 sq.
feet of that.
And then upon looking further last week I made the decision to expand that by another 10K.
So we are going to take to take 20 000 sq.
feet there and manufacture the HeRO Graft there.
A certain number of steps for PerClot will be manufactured in the clean rooms there and then we will setup a redundant allograft inventory in that facility as well.
But it is beautiful space the price was right and we just decided that it was time to give ourselves a little protection here because of the frequency of tornados in this area.
Okay got it.
Just a couple more.
The pre-manufacturing allowance for the U.S trial for PerClot would that be counting as sales? When we put them into the testing we start our program; yes they will be registered as sales.
Okay.
And I see that – so you got a letter from Medafor on PerClot.
What was the timing of that? I don’t know I don’t remember exactly the timing.
It was what within the last six weeks.
Okay.
Would you say that was largely expected? Yes we don’t think that we infringe on their patent.
They evidently think that we do.
But we’ve had a thorough analysis made of our technology and chemically it’s considerably different it works differently.
PerClot absorbs four or five times more fluid upon contact than the Arista product does.
We just don’t think that molecularly it is similar at all.
They have a history of being very litigious and I am personally aware of about five situations where they have sued companies or individuals and right now they are batting all for five.
So I am not taking it very seriously.
I think that we do not infringe on their patent at all.
I don’t think that there is going to be an issue there going forward.
Having said that they can sue us anybody can sue us for anything they want to.
Got it.
Okay perfect.
Thank you very much for taking the questions.
Our next question is from Mr.
Matt Dolan with Roth Capital.
Hey guys this is Chris Lewis on the line for Matt.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Hey Chris.
First question is just on cardiac tissue it looks like you had a nice quarter.
You mentioned an increase in shipments.
Could you talk a little bit more about what factors contributed to that increase during the quarter? Yes I can.
The STS and their physician guidelines came out with an endorsement of using human valves and human tissue replacements in cases of endocarditis.
In fact they went so far as to say that a homograft or allograft valve was the product of choice for treating active endocarditis in patients.
Some of our consultants feel that there is an epidemic of endocarditis developing in the United States.
And so I would expect to see that type of tissue continue to grow and that business grow.
Also allograft valves last 15 to 20 years and so a lot of the patients that were implanted with our tissues in the early days of the company will probably be having replacements and so there is a huge new market developing for adult congenital patients that have to be reconstructed because the valves will wear out over 15 to 20 years.
Okay thanks.
And then just I guess as a follow-up to that regarding this kind of new sustainability and growth there the tissue guidance in place a step-down in fourth quarter we assume roughly 5% growth for the year.
Can you talk about despite the new sustainability there why your guidance is pointing to a draft in the fourth quarter for tissue? Well I think it’s kind of hard for us to expect to see 22% growth continued in that space although we are certainly very optimistic.
Coming into the year we thought that the allograft business as a whole was a flat to low growth business low single digit grower.
We now believe that it could be a mid-single digit grower going forward.
So hopefully we are just being a little bit cautious.
But it’s kind of hard to guide to sustainable growth at that level.
Looking at the sales this quarter this morning I have noticed that the vascular allograft tissues are doing very well and there is no question about the fact that the acquisition of the HeRO Graft has helped us greatly we are seeing physicians vascular-reconstruction physicians that we had been unable to see in the past as a result of having the HeRO Graft and I think that that trend probably is going to continue into the future.
And then the other thing that goes on in the fourth quarter for our tissue business is that a lot of that surgery is elective and then over the holidays people have elective surgery they usually delay it until the first quarter and I think that we have a history of having extremely strong first quarters don’t we? We do yes.
Okay thank you.
And then last question we have been expecting for R&amp;D to tick up here with some of your projects.
But haven’t quite seen it with another pretty flat quarter sequentially.
It looks like the guidance implies R&amp;D to pick up here in Q4.
Can you discuss why we may have seen some delays in the spending tick up there to this point and how we should expect R&amp;D to trend in the next… Well PerClot we had originally forecasted that we would be in clinical trials with PerClot at the end of this year and as you will recollect the FDA had a number of questions and we had been in the process of responding to those questions and we will be resubmitting our IDE application in November.
And so the PerClot clinical test has been delayed for some time.
Okay thank you.
Mr.
Anderson there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
All right.
We would like to thank everyone that joined us today and we look forward to speaking with you at our year-end conference call.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings.
Welcome to the CryoLife Fourth Quarter and Year End 2012 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the following presentation.
(Operator instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO of CryoLife.
Thank you Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
And welcome to CryoLife's 2012 Year End Conference Call.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife's CEO and with me today is Ashley Lee CryoLife's Executive Vice President COO and CFO; and David Fronk CryoLife's Vice President of Regulatory Affairs and Quality Assurance.
This morning we released our year end and fourth quarter financial report.
I am pleased to announce that we reported record fourth quarter revenues of $32.8 million and earnings of $2.1 million.
The fourth quarter revenues reflect an 8% increase over 2011 and the earnings showed a 12% increase over the previous year's quarter.
We also reported record annual revenues of $131.7 million an increase of 10% over 2012.
Earnings were $7.9 million an increase of 8%.
During the quarter we also paid a $0.025 dividend to share holders.
The agenda for the call today is as follows.
Ashley will discuss the year-end financial performance in detail.
Then Dave will discuss our recent FDA inspection.
I will discuss the build out of our new manufacturing space at Georgia Tech.
I will discuss the finial integration of the HeRO Graft manufacturing and the timetable for the HeRO CE Mark in Europe.
I will also discuss the status of the IDE PMA for PerClot as well as the timetable for beginning our human clinical trials.
I will discuss additional corporate development activities and initiatives that we are working on.
After my comments Ashley will return to give you financial and earnings guidance for 2013.
At this time Ashley will comment about today's press release.
Thanks Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include the statements made as to the company's or management's intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2012 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company's SEC filings including the Risk Factors section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs during 2012 our Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31 2012 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
A reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP measures is contained in our press release a copy of which is located in the investor section of our website.
This morning we reported our results for the fourth quarter and full-year of 2012.
We achieved record fourth quarter and annul revenues of $32.8 million and $131.7 million respectively driven by year-over-year increases in most lines of business and the recent acquisition of Hemosphere.
Our fourth quarter and annual earnings per share totaled $0.07 and $0.28 respectively.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
For the fourth quarter total product revenues increased 13% compared to the prior year.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 7% for fourth quarter.
This was driven by 4% volume increase primarily in Europe.
PerClot Sales increased 63% to $1 million for the fourth quarter compared to last year’s fourth quarter and increased 37% sequentially from the third quarter of 2012.
This was driven by increased demand in Europe including Russia.
Other revenues from our TMR product line decreased in the fourth quarter compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Disposable hand piece revenue increased 6% for fourth quarter over the prior year quarter.
The overall quarterly decrease was due to the sale of laser consoles in the prior year quarter and our focus now is on driving hand piece with an expanding utilization of the TMR procedure.
Revenues from the sales of the HeRO Graft are $1.1 million in the fourth quarter.
Over the last three years the fourth quarter has been the weakest revenue quarter for this business.
During the fourth quarter we continued to work through new product committees and new accounts.
We remain very optimistic on the feedback we are receiving from the field and we expect to see the results of our expanding selling effort over the next couple of quarters.
We also expect to begin our launch in Europe later in 2013.
Total tissue processing revenues grew 3% to $15.2 driven by a 7% increase in cardiac tissue revenues resulting from a 7% increase in unit shipments.
Total gross margins were 64% for the fourth quarters of 2012 and 2011.
Gross margins for the full year of 2012 were 64% versus 63% in the full year of 2011.
Margins for the full year were favorably affected by an increase in preservation services gross margins.
Gross margin also benefited from an increased mix of our higher margin products including surgical sealants and hemostats the HeRO Graft and the TMR product line.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the fourth quarter of 2012 were $16.8 million up 15% from the third quarter of 2011.
This increase was primarily due to an increase in marketing expenses including costs associated with our expanded sales staff and increases in spending on advertising partially offset by a decrease and litigation expense.
R&amp;D expenses were $2.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $1.8 million in the prior year fourth quarter.
R&amp;D spending in 2012 was focused on PerClot the HeRO Graft revascularization technologies SynerGraft tissues and products and BioFoam.
Net income for the third quarter of 2012 was $2.1 million or $0.07 per fully diluted common share.
Net income for the third quarter of 2012 included $796 000 in business development and integration charges primarily related to the acquisition of Hemosphere and a $171 000 in litigation expenses.
Excluding these charges on a pro forma non-GAAP basis using a 34% tax rate earnings per share would have been $0.08 in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Pro forma non-GAAP earnings per share in the fourth quarter of 2011 would have been $0.09.
As of December 31 2012 we had $18.3 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities up from $13.1 million at the end of the third quarter.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry almost no debt and generate strong cash flow.
We are pleased to be able to return a portion of our profits to shareholders while continuing to build shareholder value thorough our dividend and our investments in organic and acquisition growth opportunities.
I have a few updates on a couple of subjects.
For our TMR business we have initiatives underway designed to accelerate growth.
As I mentioned we are focused on driving adoption of the technology and utilization of the disposable per procedure headpieces.
To that end in the last couple of quarters we introduced a new laser console evaluation program that was designed to make it easier for physicians and hospitals to trial the TMR technology.
As a result of this program we have placed seven laser consoles in the field since last October.
Additionally we have established a clinical registry that we believe will track important data about the clinical utility of TMR and potential place more opinion leading surgeons on the podium talking about the procedure.
We currently have the interest from about 80 centers to participate in the registry and 19 sites have been actively submitting for IRB or contract approval.
We believe that these initiatives will result in growth in our TMR business.
In regards to ValveXchange we are pleased to report that they initiated their EU clinical study late last year in or about half way through their enrollment.
This could potentially lead to a CE Mark in late 2013.
We recently began initial discussions with ValveXchange on EU distribution.
For more information about their progress we encourage you to visit their website or contact them directly.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-K that we plan to file shortly.
Now I will turn it back over to Dave.
As we previously made public with FDA conducted a routine scheduled inspection of our facilities conducted over a four week period last September and October.
The inspection was not the direct result from any adverse event reports about our tissues or products.
At the conclusion of the inspection we received a Form 483 list of observations.
We took their concern seriously.
We initiated significant efforts to address the FDA's observations and provided three written responses to the FDA detailing our corrective action plans.
As we also previously disclosed on January 30th we received a warning letter from the FDA.
The warning letter relates to certain observation from the 483 that the FDA believes were either inadequately addressed by our responses or for which FDA required further information to fully assess our corrective actions.
The concerns in the warning letter were for a subset of the 483 observation.
A majority of the corrective actions detailed in our earlier responses to the 483 appear to have been adequately addressed from the initial observations.
We continue to take this matter seriously and intend to fully respond to the FDA's concerns.
Specific concerns addressed by the FDA and warning letter include ensuring that all complaint investigations are adequately conducted assuring that management reviews the company's quality system on a regular and sufficient basis preventing the reoccurrence of certain deficiencies noted in personnel training providing additional information describing changes in the company's disinfectant system as well as additional information concerning its environmental monitoring program and lastly ensuring that environmental trending reports are generated pursuant to company's procedures.
We have had several communications with our local FDA district office to discuss the warning letter concerns as well as our proposed corrective actions.
These discussions have been very constructive.
We intent to provide our response to FDA before the end of next week.
Once we have completed the work necessary to address the FDA's concerns we will request a follow-up inspection during with the FDA will verify our work is sufficient to address their concerns.
Steve? During September of 2012 we leased an additional 9 000 square feet of clean room and laboratory space and a building on the campus of Georgia Tech.
The building had previously been occupied by a startup pharmaceutical company that went out of business.
The facility's clean room space is ideal for the manufacture of the HeRO Graft that we acquired last May in our acquisition of Hemosphere.
The transfer of the HeRO Graft manufacturing operations from Eden Prairie Minnesota to the facility of Georgia Tech is nearing completion.
Once final the manufacturing facility on Eden Prairie Minnesota will be closed.
We are also using this newly leased space for one of the steps in the manufacture of PerClot our powdered hemostatic agent.
We are presently in talks to lease another 10 000 square feet in the same building.
With the current lease we now occupy 220 000 square feet of office laboratory and manufacturing space in the Metro Atlanta area.
2012 sales of the HeRO Graft since the acquisition on May 17 2012 were $3.1 million.
Our sales forecast for the HeRO Graft during 2013 is for sales between $6 million and $7 million.
We estimate the total annual U.S.
market for the HeRO Graft to be about 352 000 units.
That equates to a $124 million opportunity in the U.S.
Management believes that the European market opportunity for the HeRO Graft is approximately $30 million.
We are expecting CE Mark approval for the HeRO Graft late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2013.
The HeRO Graft has gross margins in the mid 60 range.
We are planning additional post market clinical studies in 2013 to further demonstrate the clinical utility of the HeRO Graft.
As this we are still addressing questions from the FDA about the -- our IDE for the PerClot.
Recent feedback from the FDA has provided further clarity on the clinical study design.
The number of patients in the study will be approximately 400 200 for PerClot and 200 for the control group.
The FDA has indicated that they are in agreement with a one month follow-up period.
We are expecting approval of our IDE application during the first half of 2013.
Our IDE is for multiple indications and specialties including cardiac vascular orthopedic general and urological surgery.
The manufacturing facility for PerClot in our Kennesaw facility has been completed.
Within this facility we will have enough capacity to conduct our clinical trials.
We have completed three manufacturing lots of PerClot that will be used in our U.S.
clinical trials and they will be ready to be shipped to our investigated sites upon approval of the IDE.
European and rest of world markets will be supplied with PerClot manufactured by Starch Medical.
We have been testing PerClot against the other powered hemostat on the market manufactured by Medafor.
In preclinical testing conducted on the two products PerClot achieved hemostasis in half the time required by Medafor's product using a porcine liver model.
Lab studies also show PerClot absorbs four to five time the amount of fluid as compared to Medafor's product.
Based on these studies we believe we have a very superior product.
Management also believes that the worldwide market for powdered hemostats approaches $1.3 billion growing to as much as $1.5 billion in 2015 with the US market potential of $1 billion.
PerClot manufactured at CryoLife will have gross margins north of 80%.
As part of our increasing expansion into Asian markets we have recently added a contract sales and marketing executive who is based in Thailand.
In conjunction with vascular surgeons our physician training department has began developing the curriculum in selecting a faculty for our first Central Venous Pathology Summit that will be held here at our corporate headquarters next spring.
We expect the faculty will be international in scope and will attract experts in the treatment of end stage renal disease from around the world.
Our physician training department has also been working on a curriculum and the faculty for a Cardiovascular Surgery Fellows Program that will be held here at CryoLife in the fall of 2013.
The fellows program will replace our annual Ross Procedure Summit which will now be held in alternate years.
This initiative should help us develop professional relationships with future cardiovascular surgeons as they work their way through their resident and fellows programs at the various medical schools throughout the US.
We are actively involved in additional business development activities specifically ValveXchange of which we own 19% continues to make progress in the their European clinical trial for CE mark approval for their heart valve and pursuant to our agreements of ValveXchange we have the first rights to negotiate to distribute their product in Europe.
ValveXchange's heart valve would enable us to address the prosthetic aortic valve business which is a $584 million business in the US and European Union.
We are also activity looking at a number of companies for technologies related to AV access devices and infection control for catheters that would complement the HeRO Graft.
We also continue to evaluate additional haemostatic devises including a unique proprietary device for promoting hemostats Poststernotomy.
This is a surgical site that doesn’t have an effective product for controlling hemostasis at this time.
That concludes my remarks and now I will turn the call back over to Ashley to give you some financial guidance for the rest of 2013.
We are issuing our initial financial guidance for the full year of 2013.
We expect total revenues to be between $139 and $143 million.
This represents annual total revenue growth of between 6% and 9%.
We expect tissue processing revenues to increase in the low to mid single digits on a percentage basis for the full year of 2013 compared to 2012.
Revenues from our higher margin product segment are expected to grow between 9% and 13% for the full year of 2013.
The product revenue guidance includes expectations for BioGlue and BioFoam revenues to increase in the mid single digits on a percentage basis in 2013 compared to 2012 and PerClot revenues to be between $3.5 and $4million.
We expect HeRO Graft revenues to be between $6 million and $7 million in 2013.
We expect revenues from TMR Technologies to be between $8.5 million and $9 million in 2013.
Turning to expenses R&amp;D expenses are expected to be between $11 million and $12 million in 2013 primarily as a result of our investments in our US clinical trials for PerClot.
We believe that the medical device excise tax for 2013 will approximate a little over $1 million.
We expect the effective income tax rate for the full year of 2013 to be in the mid 30% range.
We will recognize the full benefit of the 2012 R&amp;D tax credit which was passed in early 2013 in the first quarter of 2013.
We will recognize the 2013 R&amp;D tax credit ratably throughout the year.
We expect earnings per share for the full year 2013 of between $0.25 and $0.28.
Finally we believe we are continuing to successfully execute on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding and leveraging our sales and marketing and executing on business development opportunities.
Looking forward we believe that we have several opportunities to expand the company’s market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
These include to drive revenue growth in the HeRo Graft through our recent launch in our broader US direct sales force; 2) initiate enrolment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial and gain additional marketing approvals in new international markets; 3) expand our European sales and marketing coverage for PerClot to include other surgical specialties in addition to cardiac and vascular surgery; 4) potentially gain expanded indications for BioGlue in Japan; 5) building our commitment to the Asia pacific region by gaining distribution partners for our products in new markets such as China and South East Asia; 6) drive our TMR business through our clinical registry and increased laser console evaluations; and 7) continuing on planning our discussions with ValveXchange on the European distribution of their exchangeable heart valve product.
If we execute on these initiatives we will be in a good position to drive top line growth on higher margin medical products and further leverage our operating infrastructure to improve profitability.
That concludes my comments and now I will turn it back over to Steve.
At this time we will open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will be now conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of Tom Gunderson of Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question So a little bit on PerClot the EPS for ‘13 is a little lower than what we are expecting and a big part of that is in the clinical trial cost that you are doing for PerClot.
That’s some would call that expense some would call that investment.
If we look at it Steve from an investment standpoint what’s the rollout if this starts sometime in ‘14 does it need more investment we need more sales guys?  And then how do you perceive the payback for this investment that’s being made in PerClot? We probably will have more sales people because the number of specialties that we are addressing is outside the bandwidth of our present sales forces which are focused on cardiovascular and vascular surgeons primarily.
So I would expect that we would add specialists sales specialist into the various regions around the country as far as our sales strategy would go.
Do you want to comment about the investment and stuff like that Ashley? No just a couple of comments overall Tom.
For we think from this point going forward is probably going to take another $4 million to $5 million to complete the trial and that’s really kind of baked into our guidance right now.
As far as return when we look at business development opportunities we have target IRR that we like to achieve on any endeavor that we enter into.
We don't want to get to specific about you know what are targets are but this particular technology fit well within our criteria.
And we thought that when we entered into the transaction and we continue to believe that this is a very attractive opportunity to grow the company going forward.
And then a little bit related but not probably not the warning letter comes from the enforcement side.
The IDE approval comes from the evaluation side.
Is there any hint from any of the FDA people that you're talking to that IDE would be slowed until the warning letter is cleared up? We have not gotten any indication that that would be the case at all and again we're clearly looking at doing an investigational device exemption to allow the clinical testing.
So I think we're pretty comfortable that there should be no impact with regards to the warning letter on any investigational trial that we want to have going forward.
We're also are pretty comfortable that in the dialogues that we have been having with the Agency that we are going to get to this matter resolved very quickly.
We've had a series of conversations with the Agency over the last week and it's been very productive and they've been very pleased with the corrective actions that we are proposing to take in place so we're very optimistic with regards to that aspect of it resolved and resolved quickly.
And then just one quick detail and I'll get back in queue and that is on the 400 patients that you've talked about approximately how many sites are you thinking of enrolling? Up to around a dozen sites.
Our next question is from the line of Jeffery Cohen of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I apologize in advance if I somewhat repetitive.
So firstly I guess the question for was that David on the call on the 483 timing.
I think you earmarked the deadline that we hear something back.
Is that going to be Friday the 22<sup>nd</sup> or Monday the 25th should you be filing an 8-K on or before that date? Actually that date is our due date to respond to the warning letter.
The 15 business days that were outlined to respond in the warning letter is on the 21<sup>st</sup> of this month.
So that's how our response to the warning letter.
Okay.
So that would be on the 21<sup>st</sup><sup>.</sup>  So there would be no 8-K and is your deadline for the agency to get back to you from your response? No there is not.
Okay.
What's the current employee count approximately of the company? We were showing about 475 to 480 somewhere in that neighborhood.
Okay so I'm sorry if this is repetitive.
On per clock timing for the trial to wrap up and for you to get data or data submission what kind of ball park timing are you looking at? Since there are so many specialties involved it's going to be relatively easy for us to get the complete enrollment done quickly and I would think that we would -- and with only a one month follow-up period that they've already agreed to I'm expecting that we will make our submission towards the end of this year.
On the gross margin I guess for Ashley 64.5%.
Do you think that ball park is good 2013? I expect margins to remain relatively flat right around the 64% range.
Understanding that as we continue to drive sales and some of these higher margin product lines that we believe over the next few years that we would expect gross margins to increase.
But for 2013 probably relatively flat.
And on the R&amp;D side the higher expenses looks like a million or million change is that solely attributable to the PerClot R&amp;D aspect? We're guiding to between $11 million and $12 million which is significantly above where we exited 2012 and the majority of that is due to the PerClot clinical trial although we have other projects that we continue to work on also.
And it looks like 69% overall growth rate is your guidance? That's our initial top line guidance.
Okay and growth rate specific to the preservation service side cardiovascular tissue is what other percentage basis? Low single to mid-single digits on a percentage basis.
And you had talked about doing a couple of training sessions for our ESRDE and Cardiac? Yeah Can you repeat the timing of that spring or fall of 2013? (inaudible) end-stage renal disease in the HeRO Graft is schedule for April of 2013 and then the fellows program for cardiovascular fellows will be in September or October of 2013.
Our next question is from the line of Matt Dolan of Roth Capital Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
So I want a follow-up on the warning letter.
Another tissue processing company is dealing with an FDA warning letter as well and it is affecting their revenue outlook this year as certain facilities or sites are unable to order from a vendor that has an outstanding warning letter.
So is this an issue that you could possibly face or if not why are you confident that this will not have material financial impact? Matt this is Ashley it is always possible that it could have an effect on our business.
With that being said for the month of January this year we had an all-time monthly revenue record and our sales so far in February continue to be very strong.
I think that there are a couple things about some of our product lines that hopefully will kind of protect them from any potential issues related to the warning letter.
First of all we have the only decellularized heart valve in the world.
We have the only fully subcutaneous product that provides patients in end-stage renal disease to continue on long-term dialysis access.
We have some other unique products too.
So we think that just due to the nature of our products that that will hopefully provide us some protection there too.
But again as of today we are not really seeing any pushback at all from customers and our sales continue to be very strong so far in 2013.
I specifically asked sales management yesterday regarding the feedback from the field was there any adverse or were there any adverse comments regarding the letter and the answer of that was we have not had a single account raised that question.
In terms of the earnings guidance maybe too well components.
One is how big is the medical device tax or what part of your business is that hitting?  And then secondly does the earnings guidance include the tax credit or does it assume an adjusted 35% for the year? The medical device tax we expect to be somewhere a little more than a $1 million so that is already back into our guidance.
The income taxes we believe the R&amp;D tax credit that we spoke about will place us in the mid 30% range so that is included also in our guidance.
Was another question that (inaudible).
No that was it.
But where are you booking the device tax? It is in our SG&amp;A.
Okay.
All right.
And then on the use of cash side in equation maybe first you could clarify what the business development charge was in the fourth quarter?  And then I have a follow-up.
The business development charges were mostly integration related charges in the fourth quarter.
We held some large events focused on training for the HeRO Graft and we also have a duplicate facility in Minneapolis that we were carrying in the fourth quarter.
So that was predominantly the nature of the business development/integration charges.
And maybe if you can just walk through your cash usage strategy you have done now dividends you are adding to the buyback and yet you have some business development efforts that appear to be ongoing and continue to evaluate other acquisition opportunities.
What is the kind of message that you would like to have out there as it relates to your overall strategy not spend -- not using too much on dividends and buyback to be able to have enough fire power to execute on acquisition it just seems that you are doing a little of everything? Well first of all if you look at 2012 we generated between $0.55 and $0.60 in free cash flow per share.
The current dividend that we are paying is $0.10 per share.
So we are committed to and we continue to expect to pay the dividend going forward so we are committed to that.
And the other two primary sources of cash are going to be potential business development work and potential share repurchases and both of those are really going to be kind of dictated due to market conditions and what opportunities that we have.
So again we do not really have an allocation of the remaining cash that we would like to devote to share repurchases or business development; its really just going to be opportunity driven and market condition driven.
Our next question is coming from the line of Raymond Myers of Benchmark Company.
Please proceed with your question.
First question I want to ask about the PerClot revenue guidance.
If you look at the PerClot revenue for the fourth quarter and annualize it you get to the top range of your guidance which is $4 million already.
What is happening with PerClot and why my guidance not be higher? In the fourth quarter we received one very large order from an individual hospital in new a market in Russia that was roughly a $200 000 order.
And we think that that event in itself proves how excited certain customers are about the clinical utility of PerClot.
We believe that we’re going to be able to sequentially grow our business throughout 2013 and if we need to adjust our guidance at some point during the year then we will do so but we think it’s appropriate based on circumstances now.
And remind me actually why was the fourth quarter tax rate so low?   We routinely re-evaluate our net operating losses and during the fourth quarter we determined that there was some state net operating losses that we thought that we were going to be able to utilize that whereas in the past we didn’t think that we were going to be able to utilize them.
So that resulted in a tax benefit in the fourth quarter.
Is that something that could be recurring or no? We still have some state net operating losses that still have not been recognized but it’s very difficult to predict the utilization of those again we have to go through this process periodically.
And there’s a chance that we could see some of them like this occur in the future but as of right now we don’t foresee that.
In the 2012 federal research and development tax credits were those recognized in Q4 or will they be recognized in Q1? The 2012 federal R&amp;D tax credit will be recognized in the first quarter of 2013.
The 2013 federal R&amp;D tax credits will be recognized ratably throughout the year so that would imply that the first quarter tax rate will probably be lower than the remaining three quarters.
And about how much is that tax credit? If I recall correctly Ray it’s around $300 000 roughly.
It might be a little bit more than that but that’s a rough estimate.
And finally maybe through Steve or David obviously the PerClot clinical trial is a very important one for CryoLife.
What gives us confidence that you can actually start the trial and finish it by the end of this year as your guidance now suggests? I think the indications for surgery and the subset of clinical uses that we have are the primary drivers for that.
We don’t have any esoteric procedures that we were doing  a dozen years ago we were looking at BioGlue and we were focusing on aortic dissection those don’t happen and frequently these are very high volume procedures.
So I think we have a fair amount of confidence with regard to the fact that procedure volume is such that it will allow a rapid enrolment process.
In the past there were some very specific issues questions that you were going back and forth trying to hammer out with the agency?  Is it fair to say that those have been resolved or not?   There are a few more that we are working through but I think we’re really in a position to come to agreement with the agency’s requests are going to be so.
I think the next submission that we have though I can’t guarantee it would be and out now of 100% approval I think we’re going to be very very very close to it because again I think we’re in a position that we understand what their requests are what their needs are and will be in a position to fulfill those.
Another important factor A was that in one of the recent communications that we got from them it appears that they have agreed to a one-month follow-up period for the patients and that was kind of that issue whether it was going to be two three or even longer much longer but it appears that they have agreed to one month which we think will save us some time on the backend.
And then finally the control group is what?  Hemostat or standard care or whether it’s a control? Another powdered hemostat that’s on the market presently.
And are you seeking equivalence to that? Yeah.
The study design is a non-inferiority trial that is the standard that people do.
So that’s all we’re establishing our benchmark on as a non-inferiority goal.
Our next question is from the line of Joe Munda of Sidoti &amp; Co.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank for you for taking my questions a lot of them have been answered already but real quick I think somebody touched on the size of the employees of the company I was wondering what’s the size of the sales force based on the two businesses the product side and then the human tissue preservation? We have about 58-60 sales reps and that would include field management.
Okay.
And that’s for all products or is that broken out by the two segments or is it combined? That’s the combined number.
Okay.
That is domestic.
We also have direct sales people on the ground in Europe too.
Okay.
We have roughly 12 to 15 there.
Yeah I just wanted to get a current number.
Okay.
And my second question Ashley I know lot of people are concentrating on PerClot but in your guidance you talked about vascular tissue growing at a lower rate I mean it grew 2% year-over-year.
I was just wondering if you could give us some color on that segment because it seems to be your slowest growing segment and what are your plans for that segment going forward?  We’ve stated in the past that we believe the tissue processing business as a whole is a low to mid-single digit grower going forward.
So that’s really kind of our expectation of that business as we move forward.
In any given year we could do better than that or we might do a little bit worse than that but on average we think that these businesses are low to mid-single digit growers.
Yeah I was just wondering because I cover another company in the space but not in the tissue space more on the medical device space and they really had a positive outlook because the baby boomers and the amount of patients that would be eligible for vascular procedures.
Do you think that’s going to change your outlook maybe in 2014 or do you still consistently see it as a low to mid-single digit grower?   Shifting demographics could always help our business.
A lot of the business development activities that we have been focused on recently have been targeted at the growing baby boomer population especially the HeRO Graft so they certainly are very attractive markets.
The guidance that we’ve given so far is what we currently believe but again if demographics change and things change in the future we could be revising our outlook on our growth opportunities going forward for the cardiac and vascular tissue business.
Yeah.
I mean I guess can I put in an another way I mean I saw you guys the Cardiogenesis -- is there an acquisition out there that you think could help you boost the growth of that segment? We are currently looking at some products to put around the HeRO Graft and that would relate to AV access because of all the people that are going to be on them going on dialysis.
One thing I don’t disagree with your other company’s analysis of the baby boomer impact.
I do agree with that it’s just hard for us to forecast that.
Yeah.
One thing I can say about the acquisition of the HeRO Graft is that we are seeing vascular surgeons that we’ve never been able to see in the past and people that we’ve never had a chance to talk to about our preserved vascular tissues.
And so there is a very good chance that our guidance for that product line is conservative because as the HeRO Graft gets more and more acceptance I would think  that it would sort of pull through our vascular tissues.
And synthetic vascular grafts don’t work well below the knee.
Our tissues do very well work below the knee and they have valves in them because they’re veins usually.
And our limb salvage rate is very good in comparison to a synthetic graft that would be used below the knee.
So our forecast is conservative I think.
We’ll just have to wait as we move through the year to see what the true impact is of our acquisition of the HeRO Graft.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Well we’ve enjoyed the conference call today and we look forward to talking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
We thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife’s First Quarter 2013 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s President and CEO and I would like to welcome you to CryoLife's First Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the Company’s Executive Vice President COO and CFO.
This morning we released our operating results for the first quarter of 2013.
I am pleased to report that the Company has had all time quarterly revenue record with revenues of $35.5 million.
That’s a 10% increase over the first quarter of 2012.
Earnings per share were $0.08 a 100% increase over the $0.04 that we posted in the first quarter of 2012.
In addition to the overall revenue record we set record revenues and worldwide BioGlue sales of 15.4 million a 12% increase over the first quarter of 2012.
PerClot revenues increased 34% over the same period in 2012.
These excellent operating results for the first quarter add credence to our corporate development strategies that we began putting in place about three years ago.
At that time we made the decision to focus on the retiring baby bloomer market for medical devices and our focus on vascular and cardiac reconstruction products and markets is coming to fruition.
The agenda for the conference call today is as follows.
Actually we’ll discuss the financial results in detail and by product area.
He will discuss our continuing corporate development efforts.
He will discuss the status of the PerClot IDE submission and the FDA clearance of the new adaptor for our HeRO device.
I will discuss the recent Central Venous Pathology Summit that we held here at corporate headquarters in mid-April.
I will also discuss our recent paper on PerClot given by the Martini Klinik in Germany during a recent urology meeting that we held in Milan Italy.
I will discuss increasing international sales for PerClot and what we expect from the product in the future.
And I will also comment on the apparent synergy between BioGlue and PerClot in controlling hemostasis.
After my comments have been completed Ashley we’ll return to give financial guidance for the rest of the 2013.
After Ashley’s guidance comments we will open up the call for questions.
At this time Ashley will comment on this morning’s press release.
Thank you Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company's or management's intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2013 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company's SEC filings including the Risk Factors section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2013 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
This morning we reported our results for the first quarter of 2013.
We achieved record quarterly revenues of $35.5 million an increase of 10% compared to the first quarter of 2012 driven by year-over-year increases in most lines of our business and the acquisition of Hemosphere in May 2012.
Our first quarter earnings per share totaled $0.08 double the $0.04 from last year’s first quarter.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
Of the 10% year-over-year growth organic growth for the first quarter totaled 6% and growth from new products specifically HeRO Graft accounted for 4% of the top line growth.
International revenues increased 28% in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of last year with revenues in Europe up 15% and international revenues outside of Europe up 47%.
Domestic revenues increased 5% year-over-year.
For the first quarter total product revenues increased to 20% compared to the prior year or 13% for products we had for the first quarter of both 2013 and 2012.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 12% for the first quarter compared to the prior year.
This resulted primarily from increases in international markets specifically Japan where our distribution partner continues to deliver excellent results.
PerClot Sales increased 34% for the first quarter compared to last year’s first quarter.
This resulted from increased demand in Europe where we had focused on expanding utilization beyond cardiac and vascular surgery.
Revenues from our TMR product line increased 4% in the first quarter compared to the first quarter in 2012 driven by a 14% increase in disposable hand piece revenues in the first quarter compared to the prior year quarter partially offset by the absence of laser console cells in the first quarter of 2013 due to our focus on driving hand piece utilization.
Revenues from the sale of the HeRO Graft were 1.3 million in the first quarter.
Momentum is continuing into the second quarter and April was our highest revenue month since we acquired Hemosphere last year.
We remain very optimistic based on the feedback we are receiving from the field and we expect to see the results of our expanded selling effort over the next couple of quarters.
We also expect to begin a controlled launch in Europe in the second quarter of this year.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the first quarters at 2013 and 2012 were 18 million in each quarter.
The first quarter is generally one of our more expensive quarters from an SG&amp;A expense standpoint and we expect that as a percentage of revenues these announced will be lower in the remaining quarters of this year.
As of March 31 2013 we had 13.9 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash in securities.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry no debt and generate strong cash flow.
We are pleased to be able to return a portion of our profits to shareholders while continuing to build shareholder value to our dividend recently renewed and expanded share buyback program in our investments and organic and acquisition growth opportunities.
I have a few updates on various subjects.
We are in the process of preparing to re file our IDE for the use of PerClot in surgical applications.
That filing is expected to go into the FDA in mid-May.
We anticipate that we will receive a response to that filing from the FDA within 30 days.
While we prepare to re file the IDE and await the FDA’s response we have already begun the process of negotiating contracts with some of our clinical sights so that we can begin enrolling patients as soon as possible following IDE approval.
If all goes well we expect to begin enrollment in the clinical trial during the third quarter of this year which could potentially put us on timeline to receive PMA approval in 2015.
From the very beginning we have built in some cushion into our time table for the clinical trial.
From this point going forward any delays in beginning the clinical trial will likely affect the PMA approval timeline.
In regards to the FDA warning letter as we previously communicated we fully responded to the FDA's concerns within the required 15 day timeframe.
We have had very constructive dialogues with the FDA about our proposed corrective actions to the concerns raised in the warning letter prior to the submission of our response.
A teleconference with the FDA is scheduled for this week to discuss the status of their review the sufficiency of our corrective actions and a timeline for re-inspection.
We are committed to fully resolving the concerns and the warning letters and continue to remain focused on safety and quality.
We believe that the growth initiatives for our TMR business that we implemented in the second half of 2012 are beginning to pay-off.
Specifically the laser console evaluation program has made it easier for physicians in hospitals to trial the TMR technology.
This has resulted in a 13% sequential quarterly increase in hand set revenue in the first quarter of this year compared to the fourth quarter of 2012.
We continue to see momentum from this program in the second quarter of this year.
Additionally we expect to begin enrollment in the web-based clinical registry that we established this quarter.
Through the registry we will track important data about the clinical utility of TMR which we believe will lead to increased utilization of the TMR technology.
We currently have been first from about 80 centers to participate in the registry and approximately 20 centers have been actively submitting for IRB and contract approval.
More information on the clinical registry can be found on clinicaltrials.gov.
We believe that these initiatives will drive incremental growth in our TMR business.
We also announced during the first quarter that we received FDA 510(k) clearance on a next-generation HeRO device.
The newly cleared version features an adaptor that provides the option to pair the HeRO devices’ proprietary venous outflow component with certain other available hemodialysis access grafts including early access grafts.
The currently available generation of the HeRO graft includes a standard PTFE graft which requires the placement of a temporary dialysis catheter for approximately two to three weeks until the graft incorporates into the surrounding tissue and can be used for hemodialysis access.
By the time early access grafts allow access in a matter of days thus eliminating the need for an accompanying dialysis catheter.
Over the next several months we will work to optimize and validate the manufacturing processes for this next-generation system which includes scaling up our manufacturing supply chain.
We anticipate launching the next-generation HeRO device during the fourth quarter of 2013 following scale up and validation of the manufacturing process.
In regards to ValveXchange we are pleased to report that they continue to make progress on their clinical trial in the EU and this could potentially lead to a CE Mark late in 2013.
For more information about their progress we encourage you to visit their website or contact them directly.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions and factors affecting our results of operations including our form 10Q that we plan to file shortly.
Now I'll turn it back over to Steve.
As has been mentioned earlier international sales results for PerClot are very encouraging.
A 34% year to year sales increase of our powdered hemostatic agent is testimony to the fact that it is significantly more effective in initiating hemostasis than other approved powdered hemostatic agents.
We continue to take market share from our powdered haemostatic agent competitors.
When PerClot is approved for use in the U.S.
we expect its impact on the competition to be similar to its results in Europe.
From our point of view and from the viewpoint of the European physicians who have used it PerClot is a game changing product.
European physicians continue to comment about how fast it works in comparison to competitive products and the fact that it absorbs 4-5 times more fluid than at least one competitive product does.
Management believes that the worldwide market for a powdered haemostatic agent is about $1.3 billion.
The recent sales growth of PerClot in Europe is testimony to the effectiveness and appeal of the product.
Also we need to point out that it is effective in many different kinds of surgeries across many different specialties.
A recent paper given by surgeons from the Martini Clinic in Germany attests to the haemostatic effectiveness of the product and prostatectomy surgery and it showed an additional benefit in decreasing the drainage associated with lymph node surgery.
When we begin selling the PerClot that is manufactured in the U.S.
we expect margins to be above 80%.
Margins for the PerClot presently being sold in Europe are about 55%.
On April 18th and 19th we hosted 43 renal disease professionals and 13 faculty members at our first Central Venous Pathology Summit featuring the HeRo graft held here at our corporate headquarters’ learning center in Georgia.
Participants were nephrologists vascular surgeons dialysis clinic professionals endovascular surgeons and interventional radiologists.
The meeting included both didactic and wet lab sessions.
The wet lab sessions were held at the Saint Joseph's Translational Research Institute training center located on the Georgia tech campus adjacent to our HeRO manufacturing facility.
At least 20 surgeons attended these animal surgery sessions that were proctored by some of the country’s leading renal disease physicians and that allowed them to practice implanting the HeRO Graft.
There were participants both presenters and surgeons from Germany Ireland and Israel as well as the U.S.
in attendance.
The CVP summit was oversubscribed and as a result we intent to have another CVP summit this coming fall.
What is important to note is that we believe anecdotally the HeRO Graft has greatly increased physicians’ interest in our preserved human tissue grafts such as femoral veins and arteries.
With an average sales price of $3500 the HeRO Grafts have margins of about 70%.
We believe that the U.S.
market for the HeRO Graft which is the only subcutaneous AV access solution clinically proven to maintain long term access for end-stage renal disease hemodialysis patients with central venous stenosis is about a $125 million.
We believe that both the HeRO Graft for end-stage renal disease and PerClot will be the major growth engines for the company going forward.
BioGlue sales increased 12% year-over-year.
BioGlue’s first quarter sales of $15.4 million is an all-time quarterly record.
This increase was primarily driven by increased sales to our Japanese distributor and significant sales increases in Europe.
Sales to Japan were up 98% year-over-year and sales in Europe were up 15%.
International BioGlue sales continued to grow in the face of increased competition.
It is still the strongest surgical adhesive in the market and we estimate that it has been used in approximately 850 000 surgeries worldwide.
BioGlue enjoys a gross margin in the mid 80% range.
That concludes my comments and I would like to ask Ashley to give some financial guidance for the rest of the year.
We are reiterating our total revenue guidance with the full year of 2013.
We expect total revenues to be between a $139 million and a $143 million.
This represents annual total revenue growth between 6% and 9%.
We expect earnings per share for the full year of 2013 to be between $0.25 and $0.28.
The company’s earnings per share guidance excludes expenses related to potential future business development litigation and share repurchases which cannot be currently estimated.
The details of this guidance are in our press release that was issued this morning.
Finally we believe we’re continuing to successfully execute on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding and leveraging our sales and marketing and executing on business development opportunities.
Looking forward we believe that we have several opportunities to expand the Company’s market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
These include one drive revenue growth in the HeRO graft through the recent launch in our broader U.S.
direct sales force.
The plan launched in Europe in the second quarter and the introduction of the next generation HeRO device beginning in the fourth quarter.
Two initiate enrollment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial and gain additional marketing approvals in new international markets.
Three expand our European sales and marketing coverage for PerClot to include other surgical specialties in addition to cardiac and vascular surgery.
Four potentially gain expanded indications for BioGlue in Japan.
Five build on our commitment to the Asia Pacific region by gaining distribution partners for our products and new markets such as China and Southeast Asia.
Six drive our TMR business through our clinical registry and increase the laser console evaluations.
Seven continue our planning discussions with ValveXchange on the European distribution of their exchangeable heart valve product and finally eight continuing to evaluate business development opportunities.
If we executive on these initiatives we will be in a good position to drive top line growth on our higher margin medical products and further leverage our operating infrastructure to improve profitability.
That concludes my comments and now I’ll turn it back over to Steve.
At this time we’ll open the call for questions.
I noticed that you’re now breaking out U.S.
international revenue.
Do you have any projections forward looking as far as what that might look like for the balance of ’13 or ’14?  Well in total you know we’ve given out the revenue guidance for between 139 and 143.
We continue to believe that the higher growth opportunities for us are in international markets.
So we would expect Europe to grow more than the U.S.
market and international business outside of Europe to grow faster than Europe.
In regards to specific guidance for those regions we don’t get that out but that’s generally how we see those businesses evolving over the balance of the year.
Okay got it.
The SG&amp;A for the first quarter was similar to first quarter 2012 and your commentary is that it might look similar as far as the cadence throughout the year.
But I’m wondering how that coincides with your commentary about adding more sales and marketing effort because during Q2 2012 it came off as your 17.9 down to 13.9 from our first quarter to second quarter ’12.
Yes a couple of comments on SG&amp;A Jeff.
Just to put the first quarter of ’13 in perspective compared to the first quarter of 2012.
In the first quarter of 2012 we had a significant amount of litigation related costs.
I think it approach throughout about 1.7 million.
That number was significantly less in the first quarter of 2013.
So we had a decrease there.
That was essentially offset by the increased sales and marketing infrastructure related to the acquisition of Hemosphere in 2013 which we did not have in the first quarter of 2012.
So those kind of largely offset each other.
Now in regards to the spend in the first quarter of 2013.
The first quarter is typically always our most expensive quarter.
We have our annual sales meeting.
We go to industry conferences and typically from an absolute dollar stand point it is our most expensive quarter.
In absolute dollar is going forward we expect that SG&amp;A will be lower in the remaining quarters of 2013 both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues.
The comment that we made earlier about expanded sales and marketing efforts that was really directed towards our sales efforts in Europe in regards to PerClot and a lot of the marketing related efforts are relate to the studies that Steve mentioned that came out of the Martini Klinik and then this increased sales effort is just really focusing on those medical specialties outside of cardiac and vascular surgery.
So we are looking to add nominally to the headcount potentially this year its more some of this other activities and initiatives that we have going on.
Hopefully that answers your question.
Okay just a couple more; can you tell me where you're $240 000 are device tax are located is that in SG&amp;A? It is.
Okay in SG&amp;A.
And finally I have wondered Steve perhaps you could talk about the HeRO device and the new iteration with the adaptor; what will that do that generally speaking to ASPs and margins when the new device comes out?  I think that the ASPs will probably stay pretty much the same.
I think that building the product is going to become less expensive because we are doing it in our own facility down on the Georgia Tech campus and I think that there will be a number of efficiencies of scale.
Too early to telling that for sure but that's kind of what I am expecting.
I think the nice feature about the adaptor is it does give the doctor flexibility of choosing which Graft he wishes to use with our HeRO device and it doesn’t block him in to using our devices we have put it together.
He can choose if he likes other Grafts better he can choose to use them if he chooses to do so.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray &amp; Co.
Please proceed with your question.
So let me follow up a little bit on BioGlue up 12% as you pointed out; top quarter ever.
And almost doubling and doubling in Japan year-over-year.
What's going on there what's the dynamic? Is that of a small base an aggressive distributor is the Japanese market more accepting of these kinds of products? How should we think of Japan as an end market for BioGlue?  The current approved indication for BioGlue in Japan is for aortic dissections and by and large almost all of the usage of BioGlue in Japan is currently on label.
We think that market opportunities in the high single-digits in millions maybe approaching 10 million.
Last year in Japan for the full year we recorded about 4 million in revenue.
We think that for 2013 we expect that business to be up I think at a minimum of 15% to 20%.
It just so happened that in the first quarter of this year we received several large orders from our Japanese distributor so it was really a function of timing.
And so in the first quarter of this year it just so happened that the business was up about 100% almost solely due to the timing of the orders.
We do see a little bit of seasonality in the business in Japan so the order pattern will slow down a little bit in the middle months but longer-term we think that we are going to be able to continue to grow this business in Japan.
Another important point for consideration too is that we are currently working with our Japanese distributor to broaden the indications for use in Japan.
We are working to potentially get the Japanese indication to mirror the U.S.
indication which is essentially for cardiac and vascular surgery.
In the U.S.
that business is in the mid-$30 million range.
Is the opportunity in Japan that big? It probably is not but it is certainly much larger than the current indication is.
So we think that we have got that expanded indication could possibly come within the next year maybe a little bit longer than that and if we are successful in getting that we think that we have got a pathway to continue growing that business meaningfully in Japan.
And just a quick question on the cardiac tissue side in the press release down 6% and a comment that was made was the decline was primarily due to a decrease in cardiac shipments price I assume has been stable for a while so having a decline in revenues because you shipped less seems rather self-evident.
Is there something going on is this just a quarterly glitch is there any trends that you are starting to see?  No there isn’t.
That is a pretty seasonal business because most of the tissue is implanted in kids so you will see that increase in the vacation starts in the summer when the kids are out of school and you'll also see it if there are long periods of vacations or holidays and things like that.
The kids have opportunities to recover from the surgery and return to school so I just happen to think it's a glitch.
But it is very centered around the fact that they're primarily used for pediatric reconstruction.
So I wouldn't read anything into it.
The other thing that I'll point out Tom too is we tell our investors that the tissue processing business as a whole we believe is a low growth business and you really shouldn't look at any single quarter as an indication as to what the trend in the business is.
If you look at the annual revenues over a period of time you will see that they have grown on an annual basis and that's our expectation going forward.
And one last question on the IDE for PerClot this is dealing with the FDA as a medical device company is always a test of patience have you had the same reviewers throughout this couple of year process or are you getting new reviewers and having to educate them and then I'll listen to that answer and give you the follow up right away here and that is as you re-file and as you expect to start in Q3 are we still at 400 patients 50-50 randomizations 30 day follow up? I'll start with your first question Tom we have the same reviewers since we initially filed the IDE and I think one of the things that has caused a little bit of delay is that we felt it was very important for us to have a conference call with the FDA prior to re-filing the IDE because we wanted to make sure that our resubmitted IDE was responsive to their last round of questions.
And it took us a little bit longer than we wanted to schedule that call with the FDA but that has occurred and we are going to re-filing in May.
What the trial currently looks like and this again is subject to final FDA approval is a 320 patient study randomized 1:1 with a 30-day follow up over across several medical specialties and if all goes well and we get the IDE approval we believe that there's an opportunity to rapidly enroll these patients short follow up and get the PMA in to the FDA.
Our next question comes from Matt Dolan with ROTH Capital Partners please proceed with your question.
I wanted to continue on the revenue line.
It sound like everything in Q2 is starting pretty well based on your commentary but even the top end of your full-year guidance doesn’t imply much sequential growth from the Q1 level that we saw I think maybe a few hundred grand on average.
So can you walk us through that? Is that solely the stocking orders in Japan and if so can you quantify what that was in Q1 so we can get a better basis on which to build the model throughout the year.
We had about $2.3 million in orders from Japan.
And again that was roughly about 100% or double what the level of business was in the first quarter of 2012.
So that kind of gives you an idea of the impact that that had.
We are one quarter into the year right now and we are very optimistic about how the year is going to play out.
We will get to the end of the second quarter and we will re-evaluate and if we need to make some modifications to our guidance then we will do so with the time.
Okay that’s all for this making sure we’re thinking about it correctly.
And then on the warning letter you gave us some detail.
Do you have any guess as to when this could be resolved? And I guess secondly probably more importantly it doesn’t appear that it’s had any effect on your business.
But just comment if it has had any noise in the field.
Haven’t heard any noise in the field.
As far as the timing of the resolution it’s a guess at this point as I stated we do have a cost schedule with the FDA this week and we are going to get a status update and we will know exactly where we are.
We are hopeful that we can schedule re-inspection sometime this summer.
But again that’s just a guess and a wish at this point.
But again we should know more shortly but to reiterate Steve’s point we are currently not aware of any customers in the U.S.
that have discontinued ordering product from us due to the warning letter.
And then on the R&amp;D budget you didn’t change the dollars even though it looks like PerClot has pushed out slightly in terms of the study walk us through the pacing does it tick up in the second quarter or is this entirely a second half phenomenon for the R&amp;D spent to ramp towards your guidance level? It’s going to be a significant ramp in the third and fourth quarters.
We’ve also taken a look at all of our internal projects and where we’ve added a couple of projects to our rosters so the delay in PerClot from the first quarter is finding other opportunities to spend those hours on? Okay and on your business development program are you still actively looking at other acquisition I know you’ve got a ton of things on your plate currently so just maybe frame that for us? We have two or three things that we’re looking at currently and we’re continuing that very actively.
I mean I’m very interested in finding some additional products to fit in around the HeRO Graft and that kind of is our primary focus at the moment.
Okay great and then last one Ashley on the gross margin.
I’m assuming the strength that you saw on BioGlue helped in the quarter where should that go from here? Thank you.
We expect it to be relatively flat from current levels if you look at the last four quarters it’s been anywhere from 64% to 66% and we think a lot of its really just going to depend on product mix.
Thanks.
All my questions were covered but Steve I’ve got a quick question for you.
Let say you guys do get the PMA and in anticipation for the PerClot launch I mean is there any CapEx or significant CapEx that’s been devoted towards that.
I know it ways off but how should we look at CapEx in 2013 with all these moving pieces.
I think we’ve already spent the money that we’re going to spend to build out our manufacturing facility that frankly is up and ready to go it’s over here if you visit us it’s over in building two located right behind the marketing department and I think that those expense are already figured into our financials.
Okay and then as far as the question before regarding acquisition I mean could a possible acquisition be the full buyout of ValveXchange you guys devoted about 3.5 million there.
Is that kind of wait and see mentality and if it interests you would you be interested in taking the whole ownership stake?  Anything that we do there is really going to be largely predicated on progress that they’re making in their trial one so forth.
So it’s probably premature to have any commentary on that.
But as I mentioned earlier I would refer you to their website they frequently have updates on their clinical progress and I’ll refer you to that.
There is going to be a clinical update given by one of their implanters that will be at our AATS up in Minneapolis and you can get that schedule off of our website and if you’re going to be there at that meeting you might want to make sure you’re there to hear the presentation but they will go through their clinical results that they’ve experienced in Europe and which are pretty good.
And bring you up-to-date there you can even talk with the implanter if you want.
Okay.
And then I had just follow up you spoke about PerClot and HeRO Graft actually driving growth going forward with the success you’re seeing with BioGlue in Japan I mean can you give us some color on the possibilities of PerClot in Japan is there any cross over there?  I’m expecting the approval process to be considerably easier than it was with BioGlue simply because it’s made from potatoes it’s a vegetable-based product and that’s in our plans but the Japanese FDA has a reputation for being more conservative than the United States FDA so that’s anybody’s guess.
But we do intend to make an application there for PerClot and probably sometime this year that will happen.
And Steve I mean when you do get approval would it run through same I guess distributor you’re using in Japan.
Yes.
We use Century Medical and we’ve very very happy with how that relationship has developed and so they will definitely be our distributors.
Just a quick one.
R&amp;D tax credit from 2012 I think was booked in Q1 can you tell us the amount of that Ashley?  It was approximately $200 000.
All right thank you for joining us and we look forward to talking with you again during the summary of the second quarter.
This concludes today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife’s Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Hello good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s President and CEO and I would like to welcome you to CryoLife’s Q2 2013 Conference Call.
With me today is the Company’s Executive Vice President COO and CFO; Ashley Lee.
This morning CryoLife reported sales and earnings for the second quarter of $33.5 million and $0.06 respectively.
We set a quarterly sales record for the HeRO Graft of $1.4 million.
Sales for the first six months of the year were $69.1 million a 5% increase over the same period a year ago.
The agenda for today is as follows.
Ashley will go over this morning’s press release in detail.
He will comment on revenue by product line.
He will comment on the year-to-year success we are having with the HeRO Graft and the cardiac laser business we bought from Cardiogenesis.
He will also comment on the company’s potential decision to open a sales office in Singapore.
I will comment on the FDA conditional approval of the PerClot IDE and give some details about the size and scope of the trial.
The number of patients and institutions involved as well as give you some idea of the approval cycle.
I will also comment on the clinical trial that we plan for BioGlue in China and the major join venture distributor with whom we expect to partner.
I will also comment on the new tissue distribution initiative that we are contemplating establishing in Germany in the very near future.
After my comments are completed Ashley will come back to discuss our financial guidance for the rest of the year.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2013 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factors section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs for the first and second quarter’s of 2013 and in the press release that went out this morning.
This morning we reported our results for the second quarter and first six months of 2013.
We achieved record second quarter revenues of $33.5 million driven by year-over-year and sequential quarterly revenue growth from our three newest product lines PerClot Revascularization technologies or TMR and HeRO Graft balanced by lower sales in our Tissue Preservation segment.
During the quarter we also achieved important regulatory milestones including conditional IDE approval from the FDA to begin our PerClot clinical trial FDA approval for our improved TMR laser handpiece FDA clearance of our next generation HeRO device and CE Mark for the current commercial version of the HeRO Graft.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
Our domestic revenues were up 2% and 4% for the second quarter and first half of the year compared to the prior years.
Our international revenues were down 3% for the second quarter and up 12% for the first half of the year compared to the prior year periods.
The decrease in the international sales in the second quarter of 2013 was due primarily to timing of our Japanese distributor orders which included our large order during the first quarter of 2013.
For the first six months of the year we achieved strong 12% growth in international sales including 9% growth in our European operations and 18% growth from all international markets outside of Europe.
We are encouraged by this performance particularly in Asia-Pacific where we expect continued future growth with the potential expanded approval for BioGlue in Japan and approvals for PerClot in Japan and BioGlue in China.
In order to continue driving growth in Asia-Pacific and to ensure that we are well positioned to execute should we obtain these regulatory milestones we will likely establish the sales office in the region probably in Singapore to support our independent distributor network.
We currently have one sales executive located in Thailand and we’ll likely relocate another sales executive to Singapore to support our efforts there.
We also have an excellent opportunity to continue growing our business in Latin America.
To support our activity in the region </strong>BioGlue and the HeRO Graft.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 1% for the second quarter and 7% for the first half of 2013 compared to the prior year.
The year-to-date increase resulted primarily from increases in all of our international markets including Europe South America and Japan where our distribution partners continue to deliver excellent results.
We believe that we can continue to grow our BioGlue franchise going forward with a potential expanded indication in Japan a potential approval in China and with increased international usage for neurosurgery.
PerClot sales increased 36% for the second quarter and 35% for the first half compared to last year.
These increases are partially due to the growth in both new geographies and new indications including neurology and neurosurgery.
We continue to remain very optimistic about the positive impact that PerClot will have on our business in the future.
Revenues from our TMR product line increased to 19% in the second quarter compared to the second quarter of 2012 driven by a 31% increase in disposable handpiece revenues in the second quarter compared to the prior year quarter.
We believe that the growth initiatives for our TMR business that we implemented in the second half of 2012 are continuing to pay off.
We also announced during the second quarter that we received FDA approval for our newest SoloGrip III and Pearl TMR handpieces.
As part of this approval we are conducting a voluntary exchange of the new handpiece for those handpieces in the field manufactured with the previous design.
This resulted in a charge of approximately $434 000 that adversely affected gross margins and operating income during the second quarter.
Revenues from the sale of the HeRO Graft were $1.4 million in second quarter this was a quarterly revenue record for this product line.
We remain optimistic based on the feedback we are receiving from the field and we expect to see the results of expanded selling effort over the next couple of quarters.
We also had our first implant of the HeRO Graft in Europe earlier this week.
We will have a controlled European launch of the HeRO device over the balance of this year with a broader launch in 2014.
Tissue processing revenues were down 6% for the quarter and 3% for the first half compared to the prior year.
Our tissue processing revenues were affected by some supply and throughput issues that occurred late in the first quarter and into the second quarter.
We believe those issues have been addressed and should not affect revenues in the second half of the year.
International tissue processing revenues which were expected to be approximately $500 000 for the second quarter were adversely affected by the UK’s Human Tissue Authorities limitations on our ability to export tissues into the EU which began during the second quarter.
We continue to work with the HTA to address their concerns so we are unsure as to when and if those issues will be resolved.
We had expected tissue processing revenue from the EU to total over $1 million for the second half of this year.
At this time we do not anticipate the realization of meaningful revenue from the EU tissue processing business during the remainder of 2013 which is reflected in our updated revenue guidance.
It’s important to note however that our EU tissue business operates near breakeven and the lower revenue is expected to be neutral to EPS.
I have some comments on couple of other topics.
As of June 30 2013 we had $17 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities and generated $5.2 million in operating cash flow for the quarter.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry no debt and generate cash flow.
We are pleased to be able to return a portion of our profits to shareholders while continuing to build value through our dividend which we increased by 10% in May our recently renewed and expanded share buyback program and our investments in organic and acquisition growth opportunities.
In regards to the FDA warning letter we have received verbal communication from the FDA that our corrective actions to address the issues raised in their warning letter are viewed as satisfactory.
We must now wait for the FDA to conduct an additional inspection to verify these corrective actions.
We do not know when the FDA will conduct that inspection although we were hopeful that it will be sometime this year.
We remain committed to resolving the concerns in the warning letter and continue to remain focused on safety and quality.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
Now I’ll turn it over to Steve.
The big news this quarter was the FDA’s conditional approval of the IDE for PerClot’s clinical trial in the U.S.
The PerClot IDE is a prospective multi-center multi-disciplinary controlled clinical trial.
Upon meeting FDA’s conditions for approval we expect the trial to begin in the late fourth quarter and to include 320 patients at no more than 15 institutions.
There will be a 160 patients who will receive PerClot and 160 will receive the other FDA approved powdered hemostatic agent.
The follow-up time for the clinical trial will be one month.
The clinical trial will permit us to conduct a head-to-head clinical evaluation of an already approved hemostatic agent against PerClot which we believe has some compelling advantages.
We believe that PerClot is a very superior product achieves seamless faces twice as fast and absorbs four to five times more fluid than the pleasantly approved product.
The primary objective of this investigation is to demonstrate non-inferiority in the achievement of hemostasis at five minutes in subjects receiving PerClot compared to subjects receiving a controlled hemostatic device.
In addition we will assess safety outcomes and our secondary endpoint of hemostasis at two minutes in the patient’s cohort.
When approved we believe PerClot has the potential to have a substantial impact on the sales and operating results of the company.
We feel this way primarily because PerClot will be manufactured in our facility here in Georgia and we expected to have gross margins north of 80%.
Additionally PerClot addresses markets that are really large in comparison to the markets for CryoLife’s in line products.
We estimate that the 2014 U.S.
market for a powdered hemostatic agent is $1.1 billion while the European market is estimated to be $430 million in 2014.
For the first half of 2013 we had international sales of $15.8 million versus 2012 international sales of $14.1 million an increase of 12%.
The first quarter 2013 PerClot sales in Europe were up 38% over the first quarter of 2012 and during the second quarter of 2013 PerClot sales were up 37% over the same period in 2012.
Our European sales efforts for PerClot have given us a 37% increase during the first half of the year.
We expect to continue to be successful in Germany Austria France Spain and the UK with PerClot.
One reason is because one of our competitors in the most hemostatic market Medafor closed their marketing office in Germany a country located in the center of Europe and the largest market.
They moved their office to Sweden a county on periphery of Europe with less than 15% of Germany’s population.
We estimate that PerClot has been used in 100 000 surgeries in international markets over the last four years.
We are also having excellent sales results with BioGlue in Europe.
And during the first half of the year BioGlue sales were up 34% in the UK 6% in France 32% in Austria and 4% in Germany.
We are beginning the process of setting up a GmbH in Freiburg Germany which will further enhance the marketing and distribution of our products in the area.
We anticipate that the German location will be operational approximately in the first quarter of 2014.
The other very encouraging news about BioGlue is that we won a tender offer in Saudi Arabia for a large order of the 2 milliliter by BioGlue it is an order for $480 000.
The first half of that shipment is scheduled for August of this year and we hope to complete the order in December of this year.
The company’s marketing strategy will be to bundle PerClot with BioGlue providing our customers with one-stop shopping for surgical adhesives and hemostatic agents.
We think we will be able to give our hospital buying groups better pricing and a superior powered hemostatic agent and a stronger surgical adhesive with BioGlue.
We think this will give us a distinct competitive advantage over our competitors in the surgical adhesive and hemostatic agent business.
Over the past few years we have enjoyed a very productive relationship with our Japanese distributor Century Medical who distributes our BioGlue throughout Japan.
Sales of BioGlue in Japan for the first half of 2012 are $2.3 million and for the first half of 2013 sales are $2.9 million with a $1 million order pending for Q3 delivery.
Century Medical and its parent company ITOCHU International are 49% equity partners in a newly formed a joint venture Wego Century Medical.
This formidable joint venture was formed to distribute medical products in China and they indicated that BioGlue is one of the medical products they’re excited about distributing.
Wego Century is currently conducting a silent market research study to better value the Chinese market potential which we believe to be in the range of $200 million a year.
To obtain regulatory approval of BioGlue in China during the week of July 8 we began funding the clinical trial and registration clause which ultimately will come to approximately $1.3 million.
We have contracted with the Jaitan Group who are experts in Chinese regulatory matters to manage the clinical trial and the registration processes which we expect to begin during the fourth quarter and we think it will take about three years for approval.
During the second quarter we also received a CE mark for our HeRO Graft in the European Union.
The first European HeRO Graft was implanted in a patient in Belgium on July 23 and will be followed by seven implants in Germany and the UK during the next week.
We expect significant sales from this product beginning in 2014 as it is the only totally subcutaneous long term access solution for patients with central venous pathology that is available in Europe at this time.
We believe the current market opportunity for the HeRO Graft in Europe approaches $15 million.
That concludes my comments.
And now I’ll turn the call back over to Ashley for some financial guidance.
Our updated 2013 financial guidance was included in our press release that went out this morning.
In summary we slightly decreased the top end of our total revenue guidance from $143 million to $141 million and lowered our range of earnings per share guidance by $0.01.
The primary factor behind lowering the top end of the revenue range was the UK HTA’s limitations on our ability to ship tissues into the EU.
Although we expect that our tissue processing revenues will be flat in the second half of 2013 as compared to 2012 our third quarter comp will be more difficult than our fourth quarter comp.
Note that our EPS guidance can be materially affected by a variety of factors including the magnitude of our R&amp;D and clinical trial expenses expenses related to potential future business development litigation and share repurchases which came out currently as we estimated.
Finally we believe we are continuing to successfully execute on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding and leveraging our sales and marketing and executing on business development opportunities.
Looking forward we believe that we have several opportunities to expand the company’s market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
These include continuing to drive revenue growth in the HeRO Graft through the launch in our broader U.S.
direct sales force the limited market launch in Europe and the introduction of the next-generation HeRo device in the U.S.
near the end of the year.
Initiate enrollment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial and pursue additional marketing approvals in new international markets.
Continue to expand our European sales and marketing coverage for PerClot to include other surgical specialties in addition to cardiac and vascular surgery seek expanded indications for BioGlue in Japan and regulatory approval for PerClot in Japan and BioGlue in China filled on our commitment to the Asia Pacific region by retaining distribution partners for our products in new markets such as China and Southeast Asia drive our TMR business through our clinical registry and increase laser console evaluations and finally continued to evaluate business development opportunities.
If we execute on these initiatives we will be in a good position to drive top line growth on our higher margin medical products and further leverage our operating infrastructure to improve profitability.
That concludes my comments and now I will turn it back over to Steve.
At this time we will open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
All right good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Tom.
So just a couple of clarifying questions conditional approval I know that’s kind of standard language I’m talking about the PerClot IDE.
Are there any conditions that are unusual or something that you can’t scratch your head and say why do we left it out? Not really.
We have to provide them with some more data and information and to some additional and minor animal studies that they wanted to see.
But I think that we can get that done and completed no later than the fourth quarter.
Okay thanks.
And then also on PerClot you – thanks for the description of the clinical trial and the primary and secondary endpoints.
Do you have to do anything different or new for that for PerClot to be used in the da Vinci robots in the U.S.
like it is Europe or is that practice of medicine and doctors will be free to do that? That’s practice of medicine.
There aren’t any – by the FDA regarding robotic surgery use of it (inaudible).
Thank.
And then on BioGlue just of couple of clarification and I’ll be done.
One is the BioGlue order in – for Saudi Arabia is that brand new to Saudi Arabia or is that a continuation of an increase and continuation of sales that you’ve had before? Our Saudi distributor has been increasing their business year-over-year and has been doing very well.
This tender is incremental to their base business.
So this will be totally incremental but even outside the tender our distributor there continues to be very very well.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then last question TMR handpieces continuing to do well did you sell any systems in the quarter are you not even trying to?  We sold one system during the quarter and the ASP was less than $100 000 on that particular system.
But again it’s not our focus it is driving utilization but with that being said if the hospital wants to purchase a system then we’re happy to sell them one.
Got it.
Okay that’s it from me.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</strong>  Oh hi.
Thanks for taking my questions.
If you’d go over in a couple already addressed so could you talk about the TMR handpiece write down are those pretty much garbage the previous generation are they going to be discarded and not used?  That is correct.
They’ll be discarded and not used.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
And could you clarify a little bit if you can in detail on the other $344 000 for BD and integration charges what’s that related to is that handpieces?  No.
That’s predominantly related to just ongoing business development initiatives where we continue to evaluate opportunities and the other thing that it relates to is some G&amp;A expenses that were incurred in closing the Hemosphere facility in Minnesota and transferring that process down to our Atlanta operations.
Inc.</strong>  Okay.
(Inaudible) Your commentary about the UK HTA limitations is that specific that’s for all of Europe not just for the UK correct?  That is correct.
Our subsidiary outside of London is our importer of record for all tissues that are exported into the EU so any shipment of tissue that we make into the EU set us down in the UK first and then travels on to its final destination in Europe.
That is one of the reasons why we are potentially looking at establishing a GmbH in Germany that – if we do that that will become our importer of record assuming that we’re not able to get the issues with the HTA result.
Inc.</strong> I got it okay.
Thanks.
Steve on the PerClot IDE what’s your current anticipated timeline do you think you’ll begin enrollment by the end of the year? Yes I do.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And will you specify the institutions or we’ll have to wait to see that on the FDA certainly? I don’t think I’m going to specify the institutions but it won’t be more than 15.
Inc.</strong> Got it okay.
And will you specify or will we know the clinical or other powdered hemostatic agent which is being used as a competitor? Yes we will when we start the trial I will do that at the next call.
Inc.</strong> Okay got it.
Okay when you say you’re bundling PerClot with BioGlue are you selling those are you permitted to sell those together or are there bundled packages that you’re actually selling? That’s what we will plan that’s what we’re planning to do.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
We’re planning to add which is to purchase both products then we will arrange a discounted price format for them based upon their volumes.
We aren’t doing that…  Once it gets approved that’s what we will be doing.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
You are talking about in the U.S.
is everything going pleasantly in Europe? No it’s not.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
I got it.
And the re-inspection is very good news congratulations on your verbal communication with the FDA.
Any idea – they’ll have to schedule re-inspection could that be weeks or months? It could months but they will not schedule it.
It will be – they will come in here some morning and put their badges in at the front desk and tell us that we’re being inspected.
We have no way of knowing when they will come here or how long it will last.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
The last time they inspected the CryoLife per se has lasted about a month.
Inc.</strong> Okay I got it.
Okay.
And will you file your Q today or tomorrow? We are attempting to file it today.
It might slip to tomorrow but it will be this week.
Inc.</strong>  Perfect.
Okay.
Guys thanks nice quarter.
Thank for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joe Munda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Good morning Joseph.
Lot of information here but – and a lot of questions had been answered already.
Actually I was just looking for some clarification on the tissue issue in the UK and EU.
Can you fill us in a little bit on the background of what they’re saying or the reason as to why they’re not letting you bring into the country and the possibility of a Germany GmbH?  Yeah.
Back in the – I guess first quarter of this year the HTA became aware of the FDA warning letter and they placed their importation limitations on our tissues solely based on the fact that we had received a warning letter without conducting an inspection of our facility or really even having a conversation.
So the FDA warning letter was really the basis for the fact that they imposed these limitations.
Since that time we have been working and going back and forth with the HTA more as an educational process to inform them as to exactly about our process and so forth and they’ve had some questions.
And there’s been a lot of back and forth over the last three to four months and we’ve been able to answer the majority of those questions.
There is still one or two that are open that we are attempting to resolve with them.
And as it stands right now we’re waiting to hear back from them as to whether or not they are satisfied with our responses.
So we continue to wait and we really have no idea as to when or that particular issue can be resolved.
If it is not resolved successfully then we very well could establish a GmbH in Germany that would become the importer of record for our tissues going into Europe.
That would be a process that we would have to go through but that is one of the reasons why we are contemplating establishing that particular organization.
Now Ashley I mean from what I understand.
Would they have to send over an inspector for the facility to give the go ahead is that the next step in the process? We don’t think so.
We don’t know for sure but we don’t make that and inspection about HTA would be necessary.
Everything that has been done so far has just been back and forth with documentation and answering questions.
And again we don’t believe that an inspection would be necessary.
Okay.
And then as far as you guys did make any interesting point with Medafor closing their office in Germany and moving to Sweden now you still retain the ownership stake in Medafor correct? Yes.
Okay.
Now how does that affect I mean the relationship with Medafor with you guys moving into that area.
I’m just trying to get a sense of a) what the possibilities are with that Medafor stake? And b) what the possibilities are in Germany i.e.
just a little bit more clarity on this situation would be great if you can? Well our business continues to do very well in Germany and all of our direct markets as it relates to PerClot as well as several of our distributor markets in Europe.
So our business continues to do very well there.
The fact that they no longer have a presence in that particular market I think it will only be a positive for us I think it remains to be seen as to exactly the full impact that it will have in our business but it certainly can only be viewed as a positive for us going forward.
In regards to what was the stake in Medafor.
We currently have no plans right now.
I think eventually in order to realize the value of that stake we’ll have to sell it either to another interested investor or if Medafor is ultimately acquired but this as a reminder the carrying value of that particular investment is about $2.5 million dollars and it’s roughly about a 10% stake in the company.
So it’s not a huge amount that we’re carrying that particular investment at and as it stands right now we think that that stake is worth at least that much.
Okay.
And just one quick question on the trial.
I guess Steve I know you touched on it a little bit but as far as the cost for the trial and the length of the trial.
I mean I know on pervious calls you guys had mentioned 2015 as a possible launch date.
I want to know if that is still a feasible launch date as well as possible clinical trial cost related to the PerClot thank you? I think 2015 is still a good number – I mean a good year good opportunity.
We’re going to start the clinical trial probably towards the end of the fourth quarter of this year.
And it will be a across numerous specialties so the trial should be we should be able to enroll people quickly I would think.
As far cost to do we think it’s going be somewhere in the $6 million plus range to complete the trial going forward with the majority of that cost being incurred in 2014.
Do you think it spread evenly over the four quarters or is that weighted any different? Hopefully I would weight it more towards the first three quarters of the year.
I mean I would hope that enrollment would be by and large completed by that time.
So I would weight it little bit more towards the first few quarters.
Okay.
And Ashley just one last question as far as operating cash flow and CapEx could we get a clean number for the quarter? Operating cash flow came in at $5.2 million; CapEx I believe was $2.3 million to $2.5 million range right about $2.3 million.
And that was for the – that’s for nine months or for the quarter?    Okay year-to-date okay.
For six months of a year.
We do expect over the balance of the year CapEx to probably be $2 million plus.
I think it’s going to be a little bit higher this year than it has been in the last few years with our establishment of the HeRO manufacturing process   Okay.
Thank guys.
Mr.
Anderson it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I’d now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
Thank you.
We have enjoyed to having you visitors during the conference call.
And we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings.
Welcome to the CryoLife’s Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you Mr.
Anderson.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s President and CEO and I would like to welcome you to CryoLife’s third quarter conference call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the company’s Executive Vice President COO and CFO.
This morning we announced record revenues and record earnings for the third quarter.
Revenues were $36.3 million up 8% from $33.4 million in 2012.
And earnings per share were $0.11 up from $0.06 in the third quarter of 2012.
The agenda for today’s call is as follows; Ashley will discuss the third quarter results in detail and by product line.
He will discuss the significant financial gain that we realized in the fourth quarter on our investments in Medafor common stock as a result of their acquisition by C.R.
Bard.
He will comment on our ongoing corporate development activities.
He will also comment on our continuing stock buyback initiatives.
Last he will comment on our corporate expansion into the Pacific Rim countries.
I will discuss the PerClot IDE submission and the approximate timetable for its approval and the beginning of the human clinical trials.
I will also comment on the recent cardiovascular fellows training program that we sponsored in September.
After my comments Ashley will return to give you an update on our financial guidance for the rest of the year.
At the conclusion of Ashley’s guidance comments we will open the call for questions.
At this time Ashley will comment on this morning’s earnings release.
Thanks Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2013 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factor section of our previously filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and our subsequently filed Form 10-Qs for the first three quarter’s of 2013 and in the press release that went out this morning.
This morning we reported our results for the third quarter and first nine months of 2013.
We continued to make progress on executing our strategy of leveraging additional high margin products to drive revenue growth and are pleased with our results from that perspective in the third quarter.
We achieved record quarterly revenues at $36.3 million driven by year-over-year revenue growth from BioGlue Tissue Processing PerClot and Revascularization Technologies or TMR.
We were particularly pleased with the strong growth in our higher margin product segment which help drive third quarter EPS of $0.11.
In addition last week we received an initial payment of $15.4 million in connection with the sale of our investment in Medafor which bolsters our already strong balance sheet and will further support our growth initiatives.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
We saw strong revenue growth in all geographies.
Our domestic revenues were up 6% and 5% for the third quarter and first nine months of the year compared to the prior year periods.
Our international revenues were up 17% for the third quarter and up 14% for the first nine months of the year compared to the prior year periods primarily due to an increase in our surgical sealants and hemostats business.
We achieved overall growth of 19% in our European operations and 13% growth from all international markets outside of Europe.
For the nine months – of the – first nine months of the year we achieved 12% growth in our European operations and 16% growth from all international markets outside of Europe.
We are encouraged by this performance particularly in Asia Pacific where we expect continued future growth with the potential expanded approval for BioGlue in Japan along with the potential approvals of PerClot in Japan and BioGlue in China.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues were up 12% for the third quarter and 8% for the first nine months of 2013 compared to the prior year period.
The year-to-date increase resulted primarily from increases in our international markets especially Europe.
As previously mentioned we believe that we can continue to grow our BioGlue franchise going forward with the potential expanded indication in Japan a potential approval in China and with increased international usage for neurosurgery.
PerClot sales increased 20% for the third quarter and 30% for the first nine months compared to last year.
These increases are partially due to growth in both new geographies and new indications including neurology and neurosurgery.
We continue to remain very optimistic about the positive impact that PerClot will have on our business in the future.
Revenues from our TMR product line increased 14% in the third quarter and 12% for the first nine months compared to last year.
We believe that the growth initiatives for our TMR business including improved training and physician education programs that we implemented in the second half of 2012 are continuing to payoff.
Revenues from the sale of the HeRO Graft were $1.4 million in the third quarter.
In the second week of November we will be hosting our second symposium focused on durable dialysis access in patients with central venous stenosis.
We have 100 dialysis professionals already registered for this event up from the 75 attendees at the inaugural event in April with a lengthy waiting list of registrants.
We remain optimistic based on the feedback we are receiving from the field regarding this product and we expect to see the results of our expanded selling effort over the next couple of quarters.
During the quarter the first European HeRO Graft was implanted at the University of Leuven Hospital in Belgium.
We received positive feedback on the implantation from the surgical team and its performance from the dialysis team.
We are conducting a controlled European launch of the HeRO device over the balance of this year with a broader launch in 2014.
I also have some comments on some other topics.
As of September 30 2013 we had $23 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities and generated $7.3 million in operating cash flow for the quarter.
At the end of the month we expect our cash balances to be a little under $40 million which includes the funds received from the sale of our investments in Medafor.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry no debt and generate strong cash flow.
We are pleased to be able to return a portion of our profits to shareholders while continuing to build shareholder value through our dividend our share buyback program and our investments in organic and acquisition growth opportunities.
In regards to the FDA warning letter we’re still waiting for the FDA to inspect our facilities.
As we had mentioned previously we have received verbal communication from the FDA that our corrective actions to address the concerns raised in their warning letter are viewed as satisfactory.
We must now wait for the FDA to conduct an additional inspection to verify these corrective actions.
We do not know when the FDA will conduct that inspection although we were hopeful that it will be sometime this year.
We remain committed to resolving concerns in the warning letter and continue to remain focused on safety and quality.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
And now I’ll turn it over to Steve.
On September 27 we resubmitted our IDE for PerClot to the FDA.
As you will recollect we had received a conditional approval from FDA on June 14 of this year.
This revised and updated application includes indications for cardiovascular urology general and orthopedics surgical indications.
Final FDA approval is required before we can begin to enroll patients and conduct the trial.
The trial as submitted will be comprised of 320 patients.
There will be 160 patients in the experimental group and 160 patients in the controlled group with one month follow up.
We anticipate that enrollment will take about seven months.
We are expecting to receive PMA approval for PerClot in the second half of 2015 depending on how quickly we complete enrollment.
In prior conference calls we’ve made comments about certain product features of PerClot that we feel are superior to Medafor’s Arista.
Among the features that we feel are significantly better is the fact that PerClot absorbs about 4x to 5x the amount of water that Arista absorbs.
In addition PerClot’s water absorption rate is significantly faster as compared to Arista and makes a more adhesive gel to resist dislodgement from the wound.
We continue to believe that the U.S.
market for powdered hemostat in 2014 will be about $1.1 [ph] billion.
On September 18 through the 20th we hosted a surgical workshop attended by cardiovascular surgery residents and fellows from across the United States.
Many of the top medical schools were represented at this meeting.
The meeting concentrated on aortic valve repair aortic valve replacements aortic reconstruction and the Ross procedure.
This training program was focused on cardiovascular surgery residents and fellows who of course may well be future implanters of our process tissue and users of our other products.
The course directors are William F.
Northrup III M.D Vice President of Physician Relationships and Education here at CryoLife and George L.
Hicks Jr.
MD Chief of Cardiac Surgery and Professor of Surgery at the University of Rochester Medical Center in Rochester New York.
They were assisted by 11 other faculty members who are professors and surgery from various medical schools.
We had received positive feedback on the workshop from the faculty and attendees and remain committed to providing advanced medical training for our customers.
That concludes my comments and now Ashley will return to give you some financial guidance for the rest of the year.
Our updated 2013 financial guidance was included in our press release that went out this morning.
In summary we increased our range of earnings per share guidance to $0.58 to $0.60 per share primarily to reflect our strong third quarter performance and the gain on the sale of our investment in Medafor.
Note that our EPS guidance can be materially affected by a variety of factors including the magnitude of our R&amp;D and clinical trial expenses; expenses related to potential future business development litigation and share repurchases which cannot currently be estimated.
We believe that we are continuing to successfully execute on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding and leveraging our sales and marketing and executing on business development opportunities.
Looking forward we believe that we have several opportunities to expand the company’s market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
These include one continue to drive revenue growth in the HeRO Graft through the launch in our broader U.S.
direct sales force and the market launch in Europe; two initiate enrollment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial and pursue additional marketing approvals in new international markets; three continued to expand our European sales and marketing coverage for PerClot to include other surgical specialties in addition to cardiac and vascular surgery; four seek expanded indications for BioGlue in Japan and regulatory approval for PerClot in Japan and BioGlue in China; five build on our commitment to the Asia Pacific region by retaining distribution partners for our products in new markets such as China and Southeast Asia; six drive our TMR business through our clinical registry and increased laser console evaluations; and finally seven continue to evaluate business development opportunities.
If we execute on these initiatives we will be in a good position to drive top line growth on our higher margin medical products and further leverage our operating infrastructure to improve profitability.
That concludes my comments and I will turn it back over to Steve.
At this time we would like to open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen of Ladenburg.
Please proceed with your question.
Oh hi.
Thanks for taking my questions in a nice quarter.
Thanks Jeff.
So when will you put on any type of guidance on fiscal 2014? We typically issued our initial guidance in our February year-end conference call.
So it looks like February of next year when we will have our initial 2014 guidance.
Okay.
And your quarter should be submitted tomorrow or today? The 10-Q? Yes.
Later today or tomorrow at the latest.
Okay.
Can you talk about some of the M&amp;A opportunities in the general environment and prices out there and products out there that exists that you can look at? We are currently looking at two already approved products that would be tuck-in acquisitions into the cardiac [indiscernible] of the vascular area of our company.
We are in early discussions.
I can’t say anything more about them at this time.
There is plenty of opportunities out there Jeff just simply because of the lack of venture money and investment capital and small one product companies in the medical device segment continue to struggle and need working capital and we are talking to a number of them at this time.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Steve you commented before so you resubmitted your IDE for PerClot on September 27 can you review for me the specific label on the indications you said cardiovascular urology general and orthopedics.
Yes.
We expected to hear from them by today meaning this month.
But of course because of the shutdown in Washington undoubtedly has been delayed.
But I was very confident that we will hear before the end of October.
So that’s probably have been pushed out by a couple of weeks.
Okay.
So that would be -- your submission was expected as filed? No.
We are just continuing dialog between our regulatory department and FDA.
So they are working their way through the issues and the questions that they had is just I think the general governmental shutdown has negatively affected that.
Okay.
So you will put out an 8-K when your [ph] submittal was accepted? You sure that we will.
Okay.
And – Maybe have gone through it.
And number of centers for a trial to get started? It will be up to 15 centers.
Up to 15 domestic or European all domestic? Yes.
Up to 15 centers.
Okay got you.
Just a couple of more [indiscernible] the – so for Q4 is the gain from Medafor for the sale approximately $12.5 million is that a good number to use? Yes.
That’s about right.
That’s about right okay.
Yes.
Okay.
So that’s $0.54 obviously before tax so you are stripping out about $0.29 for that after tax so your guidance goes up from by about a nickel to $0.29 to $0.31 it looks like if you strike that off? That’s correct.
That’s a good estimate.
Okay.
And it look like just on a couple of product numbers so any specific commentary as far as cardiac tissue for the quarter which appeared very strong? Cardiac tissue was very strong in the quarter.
Third quarter is typically one of our stronger quarters because of all of the pediatric surgeries that are done in the summer months.
In addition to that we made some changes internally that resulted in getting some tissues cleared through our system more quickly and I think that’s all reflected in our third quarter numbers.
Okay.
And how did that relate to the much higher margins for preservation services for the quarter? Was that just better throughput or more inventory coming out of – more product coming out of inventory at lower margins? I think the larger part of it was just due to product mix.
Our long segment [indiscernible] tissues in particular did extremely well.
We also had a small price increase in the middle of year two.
So there is a combination of a couple of factors.
Okay.
And lastly any commentaries specific to any seasonality I mean typically Q3 why it looks like it may have been a little life for you only as it relates to a few of the products but not necessarily overall.
So how might that relate to Q4 or is that some commentary that you comment on after Q4? Well I will just say based on what we are seeing right now we expect to be at least in the middle to upper part of our range of revenue guidance.
So we expect to have a good fourth quarter.
Okay.
And so year-over-year it’s turning out to be higher single digits than previously expected? If we end up at the upper end of our range of guidance answer will be yes.
Or beyond it? Yes.
Okay.
Okay perfect.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Joe Munda of Sidoti.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Thank you for taking the questions.
Hi Joe.
Let me start off Ashley on the guidance you talked about HeRO Graft revenue and in the prepared remarks you talked about entering new market with a broader launch in 2014 for Europe.
But I’m looking at the guidance here and HeRO revenues you guys have revised it down well or narrowed the range from $5.5 million to $6.5 million to $5.5 million to $5.7 million.
I’m just a little curious as to why is it maybe taking longer for you to launch that product into Europe and any color would be great.
Not necessarily in Europe the European plans are going according to plan we are going to have a controlled launch this year and we weren’t expecting a big contribution in 2013.
I think what we are seeing is developing the referral channels is one of the things that we continue to work at the gatekeeper to this particular patient as [indiscernible] as opposed to the vascular surgeon.
And it has taken us a little bit longer than we initially thought in order to develop that referral network but we continue to get very good feedback out in the field.
And with this upcoming Central Venous Pathology summit that we have coming up we think that’s going to help jump start the program to.
So even though we are a little bit lower than where we wanted to be.
We are still very optimistic about the program.
Got it.
That’s helpful.
Also here you guys talked about preservation services growth it was very nice in the quarter here but I picked up that [ph] advance healer unit volume had decreased but overall growth in the segment was up roughly I’m looking at 8% for the quarter.
I’m just trying to get a sense of how much volume decrease did you see and what were the fee increases? We saw but low -- very low single digit decrease in vascular volume.
We did see a favorable mix shift into our longer segment [indiscernible] ASPs.
And then we also had a mid-single digit increase in prices in the middle of the year too.
So combination of all of those factors led to the result that we saw for tissues in the quarter.
And that increase in the fees is that carry into 2014 are these or we’re looking at possibly another fee increase in 2014? Possibly another in 2014.
Okay.
On the P&amp;L front as far as general administrative cost and prepared remarks you spoke about Hemosphere cost roughly $800 000 in the quarter basically due to the business development and integration cost when can we see some of that dissipate or we expecting to see that carry into 2014? I think you’ll start to see it dissipate almost right now.
Over the first I would say couple of quarters of this year into the third quarter we migrated the manufacturing from Minneapolis down to Atlanta.
And in the first half of this year we were really like validating the facility and readying it for manufacturing and those are really kind of the integration cost that that you saw.
We are now manufacturing that product at our facilities here in Atlanta and the integration cost that you saw previously are now going to be part of our product cost.
Okay.
So looking at it just [indiscernible] on this quarter I mean you guys had $16.5 million in G&amp;A is that a number expected to -- I mean obviously is proportion of the revenue but is that number expected to raise going forward with the trials going on.
I know that it’s primarily R&amp;D but how should we look at it is G&amp;A going to decrease proportionately to total sales going forward? We’ll certainly going to continue to have to invest to support the business going forward.
So you should expect to see some increase in G&amp;A expenses going forward.
Our goal over time is to have as you would expect our G&amp;A expenses that we increased in G&amp;A be less than what we were experiencing on the top line increase.
So that’s our plan to get realized more operating leverage as we move forward.
With that being said you probably can expect to see some increase in G&amp;A and again in February of next year we’ll give out our 2014 guidance with a little bit more clarity.
Okay.
And I just got two more real quick.
On the R&amp;D line it appears as well in your guidance you guys revised it down.
I’m assuming that you’re hoping to get this trial started a lot sooner.
So going forward in 2014 I know you don't give guidance there.
But is it safe to assume that the guidance you gave for $11 million to $12 million in R&amp;D expense would carry over into 2014 is that something that we’re looking at due to the impact of this IDE? Again we haven’t given our guidance on the 2014 R&amp;D number.
I will say this though Joe we expect the cost to complete the clinical trial from this point going forward to be somewhere in the range of $5 million to $6 million.
And the timing of when that expense will fall is going to be largely depending upon the enrollment in the study.
So we certainly expect our R&amp;D to increase in 2014 as compared to 2013 whether you would expect to see a full $5 million to $6 million increase over this year’s run rate.
I’m not prepared to guide to that at this point.
We’ll have more clarity in the conference call in February.
I understand that.
But I think Steve had mentioned that he is expecting TMA approval in the second half of 2015 correct? Right.
So that’s $5 million to $6 million we are looking at probably in the first and second quarter right because I mean --? There will be some follow-up too but yes I mean a large portion of it will probably occur sometime during 2014.
But there again there were other projects that we were working on in 2013 that won’t be recurring in 2014 either.
Okay.
So yes even though we might see the full $5 million to $6 million next year.
There are other things that you had been working this year that we are not going to be working on in 2014.
And then finally the $40 million cash balance that you guys stated at the end of the month here you talked about some acquisitions I’m just curious with C.R.
Bard acquiring Medafor and you guys from a competitive standpoint for the U.S.
looking at second half 2015 it seems like they have a little bit of a jump start on you guys and C.R Bard obviously is a large company.
How do you anticipate really gaining physician awareness in the product when it is approved and can be sold in U.S.
and also the $40 million are there any acquisitions in the surgical sealant side or the products that you are looking at? Thank you.
I will take the first part of that question.
I don’t know if you have ever seen the demonstration of Arista and PerClot side by side but you need to do that.
It is shocking any difference in the reaction of the products one to another.
And our clinical trial is head to head comparison of those two products as requested by the FDA and we were delighted to do that because it’s a – you can’t quite believe your eyes when you see them difference between the activity.
I think we will also have an opportunity to bundle our haemostatic agent with the BioGlue’s going to move forward.
And we do have close to 60 people in the field and the cardiovascular area both cardiac and vascular and I think that we’ll be able to compete well there.
We have been competing with Baxter and others for 10 years 12 years maybe more.
So I’m looking forward to the approval of that product because it’s so obviously superior.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the floor back to Mr.
Anderson for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking with you again in February for our year-end conference call.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife’s Fourth Quarter and Year End 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you sir.
You may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s CEO and I would like to welcome you to our year-end conference call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the company’s Executive Vice President COO and CFO.
This morning we reported record revenues of $141 million for fiscal year 2013 and record earnings of $0.57 per share.
International revenues were up 13% domestic revenues were up 5% international PerClot revenues were up 14% international BioGlue revenues were up 18%.
Total BioGlue units were up 10% year-to-year with 26 211 boxes of five syringes shipped in 2013.
Total corporate year-over-year revenue growth was 7%.
The agenda for today’s call is as follows; Ashley will discuss today’s press release in detail.
He will also discuss future corporate development plans.
I will give you an update on the status of the PerClot IDE and our plans for expansion into the Pacific Rim.
After my comments Ashley will return to give you financial guidance for 2014.
After Ashley’s guidance comments we will open up the call for questions.
At this time Ashley will comment on today’s press release.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2013 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factor section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 which we expect to file shortly our previously filed Form 10-Qs for the first three quarters of 2013 and in the press release that went out this morning.
This morning we reported our results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2013 we continue to make progress executing our strategy to drive revenue growth of additional high margin products.
We achieved record fourth quarter revenues of $35.5 million driven by year-over-year revenue growth from the HeRO device BioGlue tissue processing and TMR.
We were particularly pleased with the strong performance in our higher margin product segment which increased 11% year-over-year in the fourth quarter of 2013 highlighted by 51% year-over-year quarterly increase in HeRO device revenues and a 10% year-over-year increase in BioGlue.
Our tissue processing revenues increased 6% year-over-year in the fourth quarter compared to last year.
In addition during the quarter we received the payment of $15.4 million in connection with the sale of our investment in Medafor which bolsters our already strong balance sheet and will further support our growth initiatives.
We have the potential to receive up to an additional $8.4 million from escrow and milestone payments.
As of February 14 we had approximately $45 million in cash and cash equivalents.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
We saw strong revenue growth in all geographies.
Our domestic revenues were up 8% and 5% for the fourth quarter and full year of 2013 compared to the prior year periods.
Our international revenues were up 9% for the fourth quarter and 13% for the full year of 2013 compared to the prior year periods primarily due to an increase in our surgical sealants and hemostats business.
Our fourth quarter international revenue growth of 9% included 3% year-over-year growth in our European operations and 23% growth from remaining international markets.
Our full year 13% growth in international revenues included 10% growth in our European operations and 18% growth from remaining international markets.
Our international markets continue to represent an attractive growth opportunity for the company particularly in the Asia-Pacific region where we have made a strategic decision to focus more time and resources to expand our presence.
World-wide BioGlue revenues were up 10% for the fourth quarter and 9% for the full year of 2013 compared to the prior year with the increases primarily driven by international growth.
As we’ve mentioned we believe that we can continue to grow our BioGlue franchise going forward with increased international usage in neurosurgery a potential expanded indication in Japan and a potential approval in China.
Revenues from the sale of the HeRO Graft increased 51% to $1.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to $1.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The increase reflects the growing interest in the HeRO Graft as a long-term solution for hemodialysis patients who are out of access options.
In March we will be hosting our third symposium focused on durable dialysis access in patients with central venous stenosis.
We already have 50 dialysis professionals registered for this event which we believe will help to continue to drive interest in the HeRO Graft.
Internationally we continue with our launch into European markets.
Overall we remain very optimistic about the prospects of the HeRO device.
PerClot sales decreased 20% for the fourth quarter but increased 14% for the full year compared to last year.
The decrease in the fourth quarter was primarily due to the inclusion of a large order from a single hospital in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We did not receive a similar order in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The full year increase is due to growth in both new geographies and new indications including neurology and neurosurgery.
We continue to remain very optimistic about the positive impact that PerClot will have in our business in the future.
Revenues from our TMR product line increased 7% in the fourth quarter and a 11% for the full year compared to last year.
Tissue processing revenues were up 6% for the quarter and up 1% for the full year compared to the prior year despite the limitations placed in our ability to ship tissues into Europe.
As we have stated in previous calls our European tissue business operates near break-even.
Due to the increased regulation and requirements of certain European Regulatory and Licensing Authorities we have voluntarily decided to discontinue shipping allograft tissues into Europe beginning in April of this year.
We have reflected the discontinuation of shipments in our guidance for 2014 and note that the European issues have not affected our U.S.
tissue processing business.
Regarding earnings we reported EPS of $0.33 per basic and $0.31 per fully diluted common share for the fourth quarter of 2013 and $0.59 per basic and $0.57 per fully diluted common share for the full year of 2013.
Excluding certain items pro forma EPS for the fourth quarter of 2013 would have been $0.08 per fully diluted common share and $0.36 per fully diluted common share for the full year of 2013.
You can find the full reconciliation of GAAP and pro forma EPS in the press release that we issued this morning.
There were some significant factors that affected fourth quarter and full year pro forma EPS including the following.
First during the fourth quarter of 2013 we recorded a pretax gain of approximately $12.7 million related to the sale of our investment due to Bard’s acquisition of Medafor.
This amounted to approximately $0.31 per fully diluted common share using a 31% tax rate.
Second we recorded a non-cash pretax impairment charge of approximately $3.2 million related to our investment in ValveXchange writing it down to zero.
This amounted to approximately $0.08 per fully diluted common share using a 31% tax rate.
Even though as we continue to feel that ValveXchange’s technology has a place in the surgical valve market and we expect that they will soon receive CE Mark approval they have had difficulty in raising capital to fund their business.
Based on all the evidence currently available to us we determined it was appropriate to according the impairment charge.
We continued to have important strategic rights in regards to ValveXchange which include a right of first refusal of the match any offer that ValveXchange receives for the company.
I also have some comments on other topics.
As of December 31 2013 we had $43 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
We generated $5.5 million and $16.8 million in operating cash flow for the fourth quarter of full year of 2013.
Our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry no debt and generate strong cash flow.
We are pleased to be able to return a portion of our profits to shareholders while continuing to build shareholder value through our dividend our share buyback program and our investments in organic and acquisition growth opportunities.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detail discussions the factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-K that we plan to file shortly.
Now I’ll turn it back over to Steve.
In past conference calls we have outlined our discussions with the FDA regarding our IDE application for PerClot surgical hemostat.
I’m pleased to announce that we believe we’re close to reaching an agreement with the FDA on the content of the trial and certain other trial parameters.
The trial we have proposed includes multiple therapeutic areas that up to the 15 institutions in the United States.
There will be 320 patients in the trial a 160 in the controlled group and 160 in the PerClot group.
The control will be Arista by as powdered hemostat agent.
We expect to begin the IRB approval process in March with patient enrollment in late Q2 of this year.
We estimate that it will take a six months to eight months to enroll all the patients with a three month follow-up time.
We would expect to submit our PMA application in Q3 of 2015.
Therefore we should expect FDA approval in Q2 of 2016.
In previous conference calls I’ve commented on certain parameters of PerClot and for those of you who are new to our call I’d like to go through some of the product differences at this time.
PerClot absorbs about 4x to 5x more water than Arista product.
In addition PerClot’s fluid absorption rate is significantly faster as compared to Arista and makes a more adhesive gel or clot.
PerClot priority grades in about 48 hours.
We estimate that the U.S.
market for our powdered hemostatic agent is about $780 million and we believe the international market it’s also similar in size to the U.S.
market.
We expect this product to have a gross margin in excess of 80% once we begin manufacturing here.
We have a film on our website that shows the difference between the two products I would encourage you to access this film and note the quickness of the action of PerClot and the fact that it makes a very robust clot.
We’ve also made the decision to significantly expand our activities in the Pacific Rim area.
Later this month we’re relocating an experienced marketing executive where should grid lead to Singapore to open a sales and marketing office there to service our growing business in China Japan and Southeast Asia.
We expect this area the world to be one of our major growth areas in the future.
Our marketing plans in that area the world include an expected expanded indication for BioGlue in Japan in Q4 of this year and an expected approval of BioGlue in China in Q2 2017 we’re also expecting approval of BioGlue in India in Q1 2015.
Additionally we expect to significantly increase sales in Australia excuse me Southeast Asia and South Korea with the introduction of PerClot in this area of the world.
But the addition of the Singapore office we now have sales and marketing offices in London England Singapore Buenos Aires Argentina and Freiburg Germany.
Cryolife is well on its way to becoming a worldwide implantable medical device company.
That concludes my comments.
And I’ll turn the call back over to Ashley so that he can share our 2014 financial guidance with you.
So we are issuing our initial financial guidance for the full-year of 2014 we expect total revenues to be between $146 million and $150 million.
This represents annual total revenue growth of 4% to 7%.
We expect revenues from our higher margin product segment to increase in the mid to high single digits on a percentage basis for the full-year of 2014.
We expect tissue processing revenues to increase in a low single digits on a percentage basis for the full-year of 2014 compared to 2013.
That includes the voluntary discontinuation of allograft tissue shipments into Europe beginning in April of this year.
We expect research and development expenses to be between $11 million and $12 million in 2014 primarily reflecting our investments in the U.S.
clinical trials for PerClot.
We expect the effective income tax rate for the full-year of 2014 to be in the mid 30% range.
We expect earnings per share for the full-year of 2014 of between $0.21 and $0.24.
The decrease in EPS as compared to 2013 is primarily result of the anticipated increase R&amp;D spending for our PerClot clinical product.
It is important to note that our guidance was up reflect activities related to business development or litigation which are difficult to predict.
We believe that we are continuing to execute successfully on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D expanding and leveraging our sales and marketing and executing on business development opportunities.
The acquisitions that we have made recently are producing accelerating revenue growth and we look forward to those contributions expanding as our revenue base grows.
Looking forward we believe that we have several opportunities to expand the company’s market opportunity with higher growth higher margin products.
These include one continue to drive revenue growth in the HeRO Graft through the launch in our broader U.S.
direct sales force our CVP Summit and other physician education and marketing events aimed at raising product awareness and a market launch in Europe two obtaining FDA approval and upon obtaining FDA approval initiate enrollment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial and pursue additional marketing approvals in new international markets; three continue to expand our European sales and marketing coverage for PerClot to include other surgical specialties in addition to cardiac and vascular surgery; four seek expanded indications for BioGlue in Japan and regulatory approval for PerClot in Japan and BioGlue in China; five build on our commitment to the Asia Pacific region by retaining distribution partners for our products in new markets such as China and Southeast Asia; six drive our TMR business through our clinical registry and increase laser console evaluations; and finally seven continue to evaluate business development opportunities.
If we execute on these initiatives we will be in a good position to drive top line growth on our higher margin medical products and further leverage our operating infrastructure to improve profitability.
That concludes my comments and I will turn it back over to Steve.
At this time we’ll open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking the call.
Hi Jeff.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Could you talk a little bit more about the ramifications of the voluntary recall and stopping of the shipments starting April into Europe what percent composition is it for tissues and you anticipate any charges associated with that? In 2013 Jeff we shipped approximately $1.2 million to $1.5 million of tissues into Europe and as we had previously stated that business operates near break-even for us.
So despite the fact that we’re not going to have that revenue base in 2014 we do believe that we will still be able to grow our tissue processing business overall in the low single digit range going forward – in regards to any charges related to that we don’t expect any meaningful charge to come out of our decision to discontinued shipping tissues into Europe.
Okay.
Got it.
Could you talk a little bit more if you’re able on ValveXchange $3.2 million charge write-down what’s the latest as far as approval or revenue or corporate valuation or any other information that you can provide?  I think that we’re limited in what we can say about what they’re doing internally but we continue to believe that their product definitely has a place in the surgical valve market based on the data that we have seen and communications from management that they’ve made publicly.
They expect to get CE Mark in the very near future.
And as I stated earlier we still think that it has a place in the surgical valve market going forward.
If you’ve got I think other specific questions about their activities on a daily basis I would refer you directly to ValveXchange’s management.
But we’re still very optimistic about the opportunity for their technology.
Okay.
And one more if I may Steve you have mentioned us some parameters on BioGlue and the first one could you reiterate that so for Japan we anticipate expanded indications and what indications and what timeframe? Oh BioGlue in Japan we’re trying very hard to get a – another indication for neurosurgery.
And I would think that would take a couple of years.
Got it.
Okay that does it for me.
Thanks again.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Tom.
Good morning.
Tom.
So I’ll follow up on the last question on PerClot indications the IDE you’re close even to the point where you believe you can go to the IRBs next month.
Are you getting all of the indications that you want it with that IDE? We don’t know.
Got it.
Is that sort of the final decision? We’re still discussing with some – with the power it would be.
Got it got it.
But Steve you’ve got you’ve been through this frustratingly slow process more directly than anybody and you had in late February I think you’re close enough to talk about IRB discussions in March what is that that’s given you that confidence? There have been numerous meetings between our management and the reviewer and the management of the FDA over the past three or four weeks and ironing out some of the details of the clinical trial.
And we have taken some of their counsel and I have repaired a re-done the IDE and it will be sent in here by the end of the month.
So they will have a document to review what the final review that they have participated in along with us.
And so there shouldn’t be any questions remaining in their mind about how the clinical trial is going to be run how it’s going to be constructed and so forth.
I’m expecting there will be a couple of more conversations before we send it to them to make sure that the indications that we are asking for are going to be approved.
Got it.
Yes [indiscernible] back again.
Yes.
I don’t want to get it back again but it should be submitted by February 28.
Okay.
And then Ashley on the lower than we expected I think the street expected EPS guidance you are attributing that to higher R&amp;D.
I’m still having a little trouble getting that low is it fair to assume that if you have higher growth rates in your higher profit margin products on the revenue side that gross margin stays the same or goes up a little bit? I think gross margins are going to be kind of flattish in 2014 compared to 2013 and maybe just to give you a little bit more color on some of the other expectations we have for 2014.
On a G&amp;A standpoint we’re expecting about mid single-digit growth overall in G&amp;A expenses in 2014 compared to 2013.
A lot of that is a reflection of the investments that Steve and I talked about in some of our international markets.
We indicated earlier that our growth over there is very good and we want to continue that momentum going forward as we continue to get these additional products approved on to the market.
And in order to do that we’ve got to make some investment predominantly with the distributor relationships and management at this point.
But that’s one of the – the areas that we’re focusing on and investing in next year hopefully that was helpful.
Yes it is thanks.
And then while we’re on that international expansion it’s something we’re going to track going forward obviously as where the higher growth is coming from.
You gave us good numbers on the split for the growth of revenues in the U.S.
and OUS and then subdivided OUS into Europe and rest of world.
Can you remind me what the percentage of revenues is between U.S.
and OUS and how that breaks up between Europe and rest of world? Yes for U.S.
versus OUS it’s about 78% in the fourth quarter and the full-year compared about 22% for OUS so 78% domestic about 22% OUS.
The breakdown between Europa our European operations and the remaining international markets and I am going a little bit from memory here but I can confirm this later time I think it’s roughly two-thirds to one-third between Europe and international markets outside of Europe.
Okay.
Good thanks that’s it from me for now thank you guys.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Joe Munda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Steve and Ashley.
Thanks for taking the question.
Good morning.
Good morning Joe.
I’d like to touch on Europe for a second I know you spoke about it in your comments and you are going to discontinued selling the allograft into eve are the plans maybe sometime down the line to retry to get back into those markets again or renter those markets.
We don’t have any plans at this time.
Okay.
And then Steve in your prepared remarks you talked about China.
Can you give us some indication or some color on the approval environment as far as it goes in China and now you had mentioned 2017 that seems if a little bit of ways off  The three-year process – it definitely is three-year process and in our clinical trial has been conducted by our joint venture partner and it is just begun.
It is just getting underway so that is why we chose that particular date.
So it’s just – there is just no way that we can speed it up.
Okay.
But I think it will be accomplished and get done as a result of the fact that our partner is very experienced in those markets.
Okay that’s helpful.
And you also spoke about India what type of potential do you see for BioGlue in India as far as market opportunity? Yes it’s a little bit too early to set some expectations now at this point Joe.
But as you know India is a very large country and there is certainly a large subset of the population there that has access to good healthcare.
So as we get a little bit closer to that approval we will get more information on what our expectations are in that market going forward.
But it’s certainly a market that is attractive and we’re pursuing.
Okay.
And then I just some housekeeping items here as in your guidance with the R&amp;D spend can we expect some of it’s be front end loaded with the initial enrollment or do you see a thing more spread out evenly over the quarters?  I think it’s probably going to be a little bit more back-end loaded.
As Steven mentioned earlier we’re hoping to get the trial underway in the second quarter.
I would expect that the third and fourth quarters are going to be more of a heavy spend as that enrollment ranks up.
Okay.
And Ashley what was CapEx for the year? I believe it was around $4 million to $4.5 million.
Okay.
And then I guess my final question Steve Singapore what – I mean the cost to open an office in Singapore I know Ashley spoke about single-digit mid single-digit growth in G&amp;A.
But is there any charges or anything we’re going to see one-time from that opening of that office in Singapore I don’t mean charges but some expenses that maybe bigger initially? We’re not expecting that.
Okay.
Okay thank you guys.
Mr.
Anderson it appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to you for closing comments.
All right.
Thank you everyone for joining us.
And we look forward to speaking with you after the completion of our first quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
And have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife first quarter 2010 financial conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone this is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s CEO and I would like to welcome you to our first quarter 2010 earnings conference call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the company's Executive VP COO and CFO.
We were very pleased to release our earnings report today as we reported record quarterly revenues of $29.7 million and 11% increase over the same period a year ago and earnings of $1.9 million or $0.07 per share.
Revenues were up in all parts of our business.
It was an all time record quarter for vascular tissue and our best first quarter record for BioGlue and BioFoam combined.
This is the 13th consecutive quarter of profitability for the company.
The agenda for today's call is as follows.
Ashley will comment in detail on the company's operating results for the first quarter.
He will comment on our significant cash position and how we intend to use that cash to enhance shareholder value.
After Ashley completes his comments I will comment on the initial clinical outcomes with BioForm in Europe and the overall European launch plans.
I will also comment on the Department of Defense approval process for the BioForm IDE study and the timeline for patient enrollment once final approval is achieved.
I will comment on the company's participation in the upcoming American Association for Thoracic Surgery meeting.
After my comments Ashley will return for the purpose of updating the company's financial guidance for the rest of the year.
After his guidance comments we will open the call for questions.
At this time Ashley will comment on today's press release.
Thank you Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I'd like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call which look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties in our forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company's or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predications of the future.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company's SEC filings including the risk factor section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2009.
Our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2010 which we expect to file by the end of this week and in the press release that went out this morning a copy of which is contained on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
This morning we reported our results for the first quarter of 2010.
We set an all time quarterly revenue record of $29.7 million in the first quarter of 2010.
This represent an 11% increase compared to the corresponding period in 2009.
As of March 31 2010 we had $37.7 million or roughly $1.30 per diluted share in cash cash equivalents and restricted securities compared to $35.1 million at December 31 2009.
Of this $37.7 million $2.5 million was received from the US Department of Defense as advance funding for the development of BioForm Protein Hydrogel Technology and $5.3 million was designated as restricted securities primarily due to our financial covenant requirement under our credit agreement.
Our cash cash equivalents and restricted securities balances as of today are approximately $40 million.
Net income for the first quarter of 2010 was $1.9 million or $0.07 per basic and fully diluted common share compared to $1.9 million or $0.07 for per basic and fully diluted share for the first quarter of 2009.
We recorded pretax charges in the first quarter of 2010 of $729 000 in connection with the write off of capitalized legal expenses associated with our BioGlue intellectual property rights in Germany.
Approximately $380 000 in business development cost primarily associated with our proposal to acquire Medafor and approximately $415 000 in cost associated with our litigation with Medafor.
Additionally we recorded an $817 000 gain on the change in value of the derivatives related to the investment in Medafor common stock.
Cardiac revenues for the first quarter 2010 increased to 23% compared to the corresponding period of 2009.
The increase in first quarter compared to the prior year is primarily due to a 21% increase in cardiac tissue unit shipments.
We believe that this is in large part due to the efforts of our cardiac specialist sales force.
Additionally we're seeing growing interest in international markets for our preserved cardiac tissues.
The vascular business continues to be very well driven by strong unit growth.
Vascular revenues for the first quarter of 2010 increased to 10% compared to the corresponding period in 2009.
This increase primarily resulted from an 8% increase in unit shipments for the first quarter of 2010 compared to the comparable period of 2009.
Product revenues which consist primarily of BioGlue and HemoStase increased 8% in the first quarter of 2010 compared to the first quarter of 2009.
The increase year-over-year primarily reflects the growing usage of HemoStase in cardiac and vascular surgery in the US and cardiac vascular and general surgery indications in many markets outside the US.
Total preservation services and product gross margins were 60% for the first quarter of 2010 compared to 64% for the first quarter of 2009.
Preservation services gross margins for the first quarter of 2010 were 40% compared to 45% in the first quarter of 2009.
Product gross margins for the first quarter of 2010 were 82% compared to 85% in the corresponding period in '09.
General administrative and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2010 were $13.8 million compared to $12.7 million for the first quarter of 2009.
DNA and marketing expenses for the first quarter of 2010 included a charge of $729 000 related to the write off capitalized legal expenses associated with our BioGlue intellectual property rights in Germany $380 000 in business development costs associated with our proposal to acquire Medafor and approximately $415 000 in cost related to our litigation with Medafor.
R&amp;D expenses were $1.3 million and $1 million for the first quarter of 2010 and 2009 respectively.
R&amp;D spending in 2010 primarily focused on BioGlue BioForm and our SynerGraft tissues and products.
Refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions of factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file by the end of this week.
And now I'll turn it back over to Steve.
During the first quarter progress continued on the European post market study for BioForm at three EU centers.
The focus of the study is the assessment of BioForm as a surgical hemostatic adjunct in the open repair of liver parenchyma following liver resection or liver transplant surgery.
A total of 53 patients have been enrolled into the study with a target enrollment of 55 patients at these three centers.
This includes 13 in the United Kingdom 15 in France and 25 in Germany.
Interim analysis shows achievement of HemoStase within 1 minute in 88% of the application site and within 3 minutes in 94% of the application site.
We are adding a fourth center from Leipzig Germany to increase overall enrollment to 70 patients.
As we broaden our clinical approach CryoLife is also establishing an online data registry for surgeons to document clinical information related to the use of BioFoam.
Based on the successful outcomes and surgical technique refinements developed during the European post market study distributor and direct sales team training was conducted in late January at the Annual European kickoff meeting that was held in Rome.
The product was formally introduced to the marketplace at the European Association for the study of liver which was held in Vienna in mid-April this year.
Initial sales to date have been made to distributors and clinics in Germany Italy France and Spain.
We expect patient enrollment for the United States IDE for BioFoam used as an adjunct to conservative measures of achieving HemoStases on resected liver parenchyma tissue to commence in Q2.
An interim analysis is planned once all 20 patients from the two pilot centers reach 12-month follow-up.
The study report along with a request to initiate the pivotal phase of the study will be submitted to FDA and DoD at that time.
During the recent preclinical testing of BioFoam it was observed that it was effective and withstanding aortic blood pressures.
Accordingly a decision was made to design a study to evaluate HemoStases in a cardiovascular application.
The animal work is beginning and will consist of 25 animals to be followed for up to three months.
BioFoam's effectiveness will be evaluated against the effectiveness of Gelfoam and BioGlue.
This study is expected to begin during the second half of this year.
As you may recall CryoLife at the FDA's request committed to conducting a post clearance study to collect long term safety and hemodynamic data on the CryoValve SG Pulmonary Human Heart Valve.
This study which includes both retrospective and prospective patients will provide 10-year performance data on the valve.
A minimum of 140 patients will be enrolled into the study at 9 centers in the US which prospectively enroll patients will comprise approximately 40% of the total patient population.
Our first prospectively enrolled patient was enrolled in April of this year.
We anticipate that the study will be completed at the end of 2011.
Data collected in this study will be compared to data from the defined control patients implanted with a conventionally processed pulmonary human heart valve.
CryoLife believes the information may help ascertain whether the SynerGraft process impacts the long term durability of the valve.
The company will be attending the American Association of Thoracic Surgery meeting in Toronto May 2nd through 4th.
This meeting is typically very well attended by US and international physicians.
All of our products that are approved either in the US or internationally will be featured including CryoValve SG CryoPatch SG BioGlue BioFoam and HemoStase.
In addition the booth will feature seven wet labs conducted by Dr.
Northrup.
This should be an extremely productive meeting for the company.
At this time Ashley will return and give you some financial guidance for the remainder of the year.
We are reiterating our guidance for the full year of 2010 subject to the ongoing litigation with Medafor including our continued ability to sell HemoStase.
We expect total revenues for the full year of 2010 to be between $118 and $123 million which includes between $1.5 and $2.5 million related to funding received from the Department of Defense in connection with the development of BioFoam.
We expect tissue processing revenues and BioGlue revenues to each increase between mid-single and low-double digits on a percentage basis in 2010 compared to 2009.
With HemoStase revenues increasing significantly more than that on a percentage basis.
R&amp;D spending should increase for the remainder of the year as we anticipate beginning enrolment in our BioFoam IDE in late 2Q or early 3Q.
We expect our effective income tax rate for the remainder of this year to be between 40% and 41%.
We expect EPS between $0.36 and $0.40 for 2010.
Our guidance includes general expenses associated with business development opportunities but does not include significant expenses associated with specific targets such as Medafor.
We have withdrawn our proposal to acquire Medafor and do not currently anticipate a transaction with them occurring during 2010.
However should we renew our proposal or take other actions to acquire Medafor such as a proxy contest or tender offer we could incur expenses or changes in the value of the Medafor derivative that could materially affect our guidance.
Medafor informed us on March 18 2010 that the distribution agreement between the parties was terminated.
We filed an emergency motion for preliminary injunction in federal court requesting that the court order of the agreement to not be terminated.
The court has set a hearing date for May 10 2010.
If Medafor is successful in its attempt to terminate the agreement and elects to discontinue shipping HemoStase to us then our full year 2010 guidance would be materially adversely affected.
We believe that Medafor does not have a basis for terminating the agreement and the guidance above assumes that it will not be successful; however there is no guarantee that the outcome will match our expectations.
Additionally we have budgeted for a certain level of expenses related to our ongoing litigation with Medafor.
If actual future legal expenses exceed the amounts budgeted then it could materially adversely affect our expense and earnings guidance.
We continue our efforts on the business development front to find complementary products for companies that we can acquire to leverage our existing infrastructure and sales force.
We have carefully evaluated alternatives and believe business development efforts are a prudent use of our cash reserves in a strategy that will create value for our shareholders however we are also considering other potential uses of our cash including a share repurchase.
Whatever pathway we ultimately take will be with the intent of delivery value to our shareholders.
That concludes my comments and I’ll turn back over to Steve.
At this time we’ll open up the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Thank you.
Our first question is from the line of Matt Dolan with Roth Capital Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys good morning.
Good morning.
Hi Matt.
First question on the sales force can you give us an update on where you are and your plans for expansion this year looks like the base preservation business has come back nicely.
We currently don’t have plans to expand the sales force for the balance of this year domestically.
We currently stand including sales managers at approximately 50 people.
We are considering maybe expanding in Austria on a direct basis at this time.
But domestically we’re not finding on doing anything at this point.
And your maintenance of your earnings guidance what costs have you baked in that are associated with business development and litigation and what allows you to maintain your guidance as those costs are obviously higher than probably what you thought initially?  Without giving you the specific numbers I’ll frame it this way Matt.
If our expenses for the last three quarters of the year are related primarily to litigation or similar to what they were in the first quarter of this year then we’ll be probably be closer to the lower end of our guidance.
Okay with respect to the Medafor agreement where are you on HemoStase supply at this point are they still shipping to you and how far along are you on any contingency plans you might have?  As it relates to their shipping product to us the last purchase order that they were shipment was due to us was placed in January and they have substantially fulfilled the shipment of that purchase order.
We recently placed additional purchase orders recently and the shipment for those particular purchase orders are not due until mid-May.
So we will find out in mid-May as to whether or not they will – they’re planning on continuing to ship product to us.
So you have inventory through mid-May.
No we actually have about three months of inventory on hand right now but the next shipment that is due for Medafor is at due in mid-May.
Okay.
And then a couple of other quick question you talked about your business development evaluations continuing with also looking at a share repurchase.
Maybe you could explain when you draw that conclusion to go with the share repurchase or how you get there what are the major points of coming to that that open determination.
Our annual meeting is towards the end of May and that will be discussed at the re-organizational Board meeting that takes place immediately following the annual meeting and I believe the date of the annual meeting is May 20.
So that decision will be made that day.
Okay and finally on the gross margin and Ashley it looks like it was a little lighter than what we had anticipated although BioGlue didn’t grow as well as the other side of the business.
What do we account for there and just maybe give us some guidance on how that tracks this year?  We think that our margins for the balance of this year are going to be relatively stable I mean they could fluctuate slightly either way somewhat contingent upon what percentage of the revenue mix BioGlue is but we expect revenue I mean we expect gross margins to remain relative stable for the balance of the year.
Thank you guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Greg Brash with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning Steven and Ashley thanks for taking my call.
Hi Greg how are you? Doing well.
On the HemoStase side you mentioned you have three months of inventory I saw your inventory ended at the month of at the end of May so you’re saying that you have inventories through July is that correct?  Roughly depending on what particular product it is and what particular size but its roughly three months of the inventory as we sit here today.
Okay and you’re maintaining your guidance so I’m assuming you have some confidence that (inaudible) determination but if he doesn’t you have plans to bring on some additional products to replace HemoStase.
We’ve stated that we remain very active on the business development front and we’re not going to talk about specific areas or specific targets until it’s appropriate to do so but the HemoStase product line is important to us and to the extent that we came we would like to protect that revenue stream going forward.
Okay switching to BioGlue some past quarters you were seeing off label use less off label used pricing pressure hospitals just curtailing the use of surgical sealing.
Any improvement there?  We continue to see those types of issues out in the field I think one of the areas that first of all the business was up year-over-year that’s the important thing but one of the areas of the country where we did see some challenges more so then recently was in the North East but all the other issues that we see they’re still out there but we still remain focused on growing that business.
Okay and then just switching to cardiac have you seen any of the hospitals that last year where restocking inventory are they still running at lower levels have any started to restock back to levels that they did prior to the recession and any change in pricing pressure.
It feels like your gross margin is stabilized.
We’ve had very good results not only in the fourth quarter but the first quarter an increasing the unit shipments of allograft heart valves and that business has been quite strong for us.
We also have been a number of new papers that have come out regarding <i>a</i>llograft valve transplants and long (inaudible) and I think that’s also helping us but that business is thriving and our cardiac specialist approach that we started at the beginning I believe of ’08 has really paid off on that.
So that’s a very strong and growing part of our business and with more usage more unit shipments certainly the freezers in the hospitals are being restocked.
Okay no change in pricing pressure?  No we haven’t had any changes there at all.
The longevity data for an allograft valve is very favorable and comparison to anything else that you might use in the patient populations we serve.
So I think that that’s going to stay that way.
I think our prices are fair and reasonable.
Alright and just lastly were there any revenues from BioFoam sales in Europe this quarter?  In the first quarter they were less than $50 000 but obviously expected that would increase as we develop more clinical data of the efficacy of the product.
Great thanks guys.
Thank you.
Our next question is from the line of Raymond Myers from The Benchmark Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you.
Hi Ashley.
First question is what was deferred preservation cost in the first quarter?  Deferred preservation cost were $34.7 million at the end of the first quarter so it was roughly a $1.7 million decrease from the end of the year balance.
That’s great good.
And then a little more question about the – of the earnings guidance.
Does that include continued Medafor litigation expenses that would be anticipated from the current ongoing dispute?  It does.
We do have an amount provided for in our budgets for litigation moving forward.
If I refer you back to the press release and we had incurred roughly about $400 000 a little bit more than that in litigation cost associated with all the litigation is going on with Medafor.
There were a couple of items of note in the first quarter.
First the action that Medafor brought personally against Steve Anderson was settled in the first quarter of this year.
We incurred a significant amount of cost associated with that.
And that is not going to be recurring in the last three quarters of the year.
The other thing is that we spent a significant amount of money on the emergency preliminary injunction in the first quarter of this year.
And we obviously don’t expect to incur that cost for the remainder of – for the balance of the year also.
But again litigation is inherently uncertain and the cost could spike but there are a couple of things that occurred in the first quarter that we don’t expect to incur for the balance of the year.
So what you have visibility to currently in April and this current quarter is included in that.
That’s correct.
And as we have stated even if the litigation with Medafor continues at the levels it did in the first quarter of this year.
In total we think that that would push us towards the lower end of our guidance that we stated.
Okay that sounds good.
And next I wanted you to explain the – why patent loss in – or explain whether the patent loss in Germany would impact your BioGlue sales?  We don’t think that that is filled.
First of all Tenaxis the party that – the other party is Nova Reaction (ph) has already been distributing BioGlue I mean their products which is (inaudible) in Europe.
So we have been competing against that in Europe for a year or two now.
So even with that competitive product on the market if I would recall correctly we increased our revenues in Germany year-over-year about in excess of 20% and we expect to do even more than that in 2010 compared to 2009 as it relates to Germany.
And then the Nova Reaction (ph) that resulted in us taking the charge in the first quarter is only specific to Germany it doesn’t really affect any of the other countries in the EU.
Right okay good.
Steve you had mentioned that you were discussing a share repurchase at a restructuring meeting that you would be holding after your annual meeting.
Well we have the Annual Board of Directors meeting that follows the annual meeting and assignments have to be made at that meeting of chairmanships of all the various committees the officers all have to be re-elected.
And so that is a busy meeting more busy – busier than other meetings generally are throughout the year.
Okay so we shouldn’t be anticipating a significant restructuring outcome of that meeting okay.
No it’s just I am hopeful that I get reelected.
I am sure you will.
Nothing is sure in this world.
Okay great.
Thank you gentlemen.
Thanks Ray.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Matt Dolan of Roth Capital Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Matt.
Mr.
Dolan your line is live for question.
I guess he left us.
Are there any other questions?  Gentlemen we do have a follow-up from the line of Raymond Myers with The Benchmark Company.
Please go ahead with your question sir.
Okay.
Thanks.
One other question how is there a gain on the Medafor stock when it’s not publicly traded how do you value that?  That’s a long discussion but I will do my best to answer here Ray.
When we initially purchased our position in Medafor we gave the selling shareholders a makeover provision whereby we could pay them additional compensation for their stock in the event that we were able to successfully acquire Medafor.
So what we had to do is when we initially setup net asset on our books we had to determine what we could – where that’s considered a couple of factors the likelihood that we would acquire Medafor what and eventual price might be.
And so a lot of assumptions went into what the ultimate value was that we established on our balance sheet to acquire Medafor.
Since we withdrew our proposal to acquire Medafor all of those assumptions changed.
And since those assumptions changed the value of the derivative or the likelihood of the transaction might occur all those assumptions changed and that resulted in us revaluing the derivatives associated with their stock.
And as a result of that we had to take income into other income for the first quarter of this year.
There is going to be a long discussion about that in our 10-Q that we will provide you much more detail.
But hopefully in a nutshell that wasn’t too confusing as to how that was altered in the gain in the first quarter.
So we shouldn’t assume any quarterly – necessarily any quarterly volatility based on share price or anything else unless there is a material change in your Medafor relationship?  That’s fair.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Thank you for joining us today and we look forward to talking with you at the end of the second quarter.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha.
However we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet.
(Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com.
All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY’S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY’S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY’S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: transcripts@seekingalpha.com.
Thank you! Greetings and welcome to CryoLife Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Steve Anderson President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you Mr.
Anderson you may begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Steve Anderson CryoLife’s President and CEO and I would like to welcome you to CryoLife’s Q2 2014 conference call.
With me today is Ashley Lee the company’s Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
This morning we reported our operating results for the second quarter.
Revenue has increased 3.5% over the same period in 2013 driven by increasing worldwide sales of BioGlue which were up 14% year-over-year and significant gains in our new products.
PerClot and international markets was up 22% year-to-year and the HeRO Graft in the United States was up 20% year-to-year.
The agenda for today’s call is as follows.
Ashley will discuss the press release and on the earnings report in detail and by product.
He will discuss the status of the PerClot IDE and the beginning of the clinical trial.
He will also discuss certain regulatory issues.
I will discuss the launch of PerClot Topical our powdered hemostat which was cleared the 510-K regulatory perhaps in the U.S.
We are planning to launch the U.S.
marketing campaign for PerClot Topical shortly after Labor Day.
I’ll discuss the size of the market as well as our approach to gain market share.
I will also discuss the appointment of Pat Mackin as CryoLife’s new President and CEO effective September 2<sup>nd</sup> as well as my changing role in the company.
At this Ashley will discuss this morning’s press release and the results for the second quarter.
Thank you Steve.
To comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Privates Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 I would like to make the following statement.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2014 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factor section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2014 and the Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2014 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that went out this morning.
This morning we reported our results for the second quarter of 2014 we continue to make progress on executing our strategy to leverage our established sales force to drive growth of an expanding portfolio of high margin medical device products.
We are pleased with our results from that perspective in the second quarter.
We achieved record second quarter revenues of $34.7 million driven by 12% year-over-year revenue growth from our higher margin product segment.
The following factors influenced our revenue performance.
Our international revenues were up 21% for the second quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year.
Our second quarter included 17% year-over-year growth in our European operations and a 30% increase in our international operations outside of Europe.
Our domestic revenues were down 1% for the second quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year.
This resulted from a decrease in tissue processing in TMR revenues partially offset by increases in BioGlue and HeRO Graft revenues.
I have more on that later in my comments.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues in the second quarter were up 14% year-over-year.
Domestic BioGlue revenues were up 8% on a 4% increase in volume.
This was a fourth straight quarter that we’ve seen an increase in domestic volume year-over-year.
International BioGlue revenues were up 22% on a 17% increase in volume.
HeRO Graft revenues increased 20% to $1.7 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2013.
This increase reflects the growing interest in the HeRO Graft as a long-term solution for hemodialysis patients who are out of access options.
Internationally we continue with our launch into European markets.
Overall we remain very optimistic about the prospects of the HeRO device.
PerClot sales increased 22% for the second quarter of 2014 compared to the second quarter of 2013.
The increase is due to growth in both new geographies and new indications including neurology and neurosurgery.
We continue to remain very optimistic about the positive impact that PerClot will have on our business in the future.
Although our revenues from our TMR product line decreased 9% in the second quarter of 2014 compared to 2013.
TMR revenues increased 24% sequentially compared to the first quarter of 2014 on a 31% increase in handpiece shipments.
Recall that we introduced a new handpiece design in the third quarter of last year.
That transition adversely affected our year-over-year revenue comps in the second quarter.
Tissue processing revenues were down 6% for the quarter compared to the prior year.
During the second quarter we voluntarily restricted the distribution of certain cardiac and vascular tissues while we performed a review of our internal training programs.
We gradually resume shipments of these tissues during the second quarter of 2014.
Preservation Services revenues were negatively affected primarily during the first two months of the second quarter as a result of reduced tissue availability during this review.
There are currently no restrictions on our ability to ship tissues and thus we don’t expect tissue processing revenues to be affected by availability in the second half of the year.
However we do not expect to make up the lost revenue in the second quarter over the remainder of the year.
Our effective tax rate for the second quarter was 10%.
In June the IRS completed an examination of certain of our income tax returns.
As a result of the outcome of this examination we reevaluated our liabilities for uncertain tax positions primarily related to our R&amp;D tax credits and credit carryforwards.
And based on revised estimates and the settlement of the examination we reversed $748 000 and uncertain tax liabilities and tax expense lowering our tax rate for the quarter.
We expect that our effective tax rate for the full year will be approximately 30% and we believe that it will be lower than 30% if the R&amp;D tax credit is renewed for 2014.
As of June 30<sup>th</sup> 2014 we had $36.8 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
We had several large cash outlays in the first half of 2014.
These included approximately $2.4 million for insurance premiums $2 million for share repurchases $1.6 million for dividends $1.5 million for PerClot inventory purchases pursuant to our minimum purchase requirements $1.4 million related to business development activities in particular for ProCol and $1 million for development milestones for PerClot.
Despite these uses of cash our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry no debt and expect to continue to generate strong operating cash flow.
We are pleased to be able to return a portion of our profits to shareholders while continuing to build shareholder value our dividend our share buyback program and our investments in organic and acquisition of growth opportunities.
With respect to the FDA we continue to work to address their concerns.
We have maintained an open dialog with the FDA Atlanta District Office and we will update you as appropriate when we have further information to report.
Regarding the PerClot IDE as we discussed previously we received an unconditional approval to begin our clinical trial.
However we have amended our study protocol to address some study design considerations recommended by the FDA.
We expect to have the amended protocol approval from the FDA later this quarter.
Patient enrollment would begin shortly thereafter.
I also want to provide an update on ProCol.
In our last call we told you that Hancock Jaffe was in the process of validating its new manufacturing facility in preparation for restarting manufacturing.
We’re pleased to report that they have in fact completed their validation work and has filed a 180 day PMA supplement with the FDA reflecting this manufacturing site change.
We are both hopeful that the FDA will respond before the 180 day deadline if we receive approval before the 180 day deadline we will be able to launch ProCol later this year or very early next year.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions the factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
Now I will turn it back over to Steve.
Right after the Labor Day weekend we intend to launch PerClot Topical hemostatic powder into the United States ENT market.
We have been marketing PerClot in Europe and certain other international markets since September 2010.
We will be augmenting our United States 25 person direct sales force with distributor reps that have previous expertise in selling hemostatic products.
These additional sales representatives should bring our total domestic sales force up to 65 to 70 sales reps.
We believe that the annual ENT market for a powdered hemostat to be approximately $100 million in the U.S.
In previous conference call we have told you about the significant advantages PerClot Topical has over Arista but I would like to reiterate them today.
In an ENT pre-clinical experiment PerClot Topical was significantly more effective and achieving hemostasis as compared Arista’s powdered hemostat.
Furthermore in laboratory studies PerClot Topical has been shown to absorb four to five times more fluid than that competitive product.
It also works in one half of the time Arista works and it has a much more robust clot.
Based on these studies management believes that we may a superior product; PerClot Topical is also easier for the physician to apply to the treatment area because the package is easier for the physician to handle.
We believe that PerClot Topical is more economical for the hospital to use than the competitive product as CryoLife’s price for 3 grams of PerClot Topical will be priced lower than the 2 grams of Arista.
One of the most frequently asked questions I get about PerClot is what is your manufacturing capacity presently we have the capacity to manufacture a 105 packs a week.
If we were to sell all of that production it would mean we would have in excess of $250 000 in sales per month.
Beginning in September however that is beginning in the September however in January or February we expect our capacity to increase to a 1005 packs per week.
And that would be a tenfold increase in our capacity.
Management believes that combined 2015 worldwide sales for PerClot and PerClot Topical will exceed $7.5 million and when at full production the product will have a gross margin north of 80%.
On July 10<sup>th</sup> CryoLife’s Board announced that Pat Mackin has been appointed as President and CEO of CryoLife effective September 2<sup>nd</sup>.
Pat has over a 20 years of experience in the medical device industry.
For the last 12 years he has been with Medtronic most recently as President of their Cardiac Rhythm Management Division which is Medtronic’s largest operating division.
Prior to joining Medtronic Pat was employed by Genzyme serving as their Senior Vice President and General Manager for their Cardiovascular Surgery Business unit.
Pat received a Masters in Business Administration from Northwestern University’s Kellogg Graduate School of Management and a BS in general engineering from the U.S.
Military Academy at West Point.
I’m looking forward to working closely with Pat during this management transition and I will be assuming the newly created position of Executive Chairman of CryoLife on September 2<sup>nd</sup>.
The Board and I envision that my responsibilities will be to assure a smooth transition for Pat into the management of the company.
And I will work with Pat and Ashley on corporate development opportunities which there are plenty.
I will also continue to serve on the Board of Directors at least until the next Annual Meeting in May of 2015.
That concludes my comments and now I will turn the call over to Ashley so he can provide some financial guidance to you.
We now expect total revenues to be between a $144 million to $146 million down from the $146 million to $150 million we announced in conjunction with our fourth quarter 2013 results.
Primarily due to reduced tissue availability resulting from the second quarter voluntary hold on certain tissues.
This represents annual total revenue growth between 2% and 4%.
We expect revenues from our higher margin product segment to increase in the mid to single digits on a percentage basis for the full year of 2014.
We expect tissue processing revenues to be flat for the full year of 2014 compared to 2013.
We expect R&amp;D expenses to be between $11 million and $12 million in 2014 primarily reflecting our investments in our U.S.
clinical trials for PerClot.
We expect earnings per share for the full year of 2014 between $0.17 and $0.20.
This includes the effects of the reduced revenue and tax rate guidance and the additional expenses as a result of the appointment of the new company President and CEO.
It is important to note that our guidance does not reflect activities related to business development and potential share repurchases which are difficult to predict.
We believe that we are continuing to execute successfully on our strategy of positioning the company for accelerated revenue and earnings growth by expanding our addressable market opportunities through internal R&amp;D growing and leveraging our sales and marketing platform and executing on business development opportunities.
The acquisitions that we have made are producing accelerated revenue growth and we look forward to those contributions expanding as their revenue base grows.
Looking forward we believe that we have several opportunities to expand the company’s market opportunity for higher growth higher margin products.
These include number one continue to drive revenue growth in the HeRO Graft through the launch by our broader U.S.
direct sales force our CVP Summits and other marketing events aimed at raising product awareness and the market launch in Europe.
Two initiate enrollment in our PerClot IDE clinical trial and drive the US adoption of PerClot Topical for ENT following our 510-K approval.
Three drive adoption of the ProCol Vascular Bioprosthesis once Hancock Jaffe receives the FDA approval for their manufacturing location change.
Four seek expanded indications and approvals for BioGlue and PerClot.
And five continue to evaluate and capitalize upon strategically appropriate business development opportunities.
If we execute on these initiatives we will be in a good position to drive top-line growth on our higher margin medical products and further leverage our operating infrastructure to improve profitability.
That concludes my comments and I’ll turn it back over to Steve.
At this time I’ll open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Tom Gunderson of Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Tom.
So the – a small question and a big question the small question is I want to make sure I’ve got the PerClot near-term opportunity pegged right that’s a 510-K you’re working on a PMA for surgical approaches but on the ENT on a topical that’s a 510-K and you have that already or don’t or expect it so? Yes we have approval for that.
And the $100 million market is current market out there or that’s the opportunity that you think it is available (indiscernible)? That’s the current opportunity in the ENT business.
Both for hemostats in general.
Right.
And are you calling on ENT’s right now or is that a new call point? That’s a new call point.
And that’s with the extra distributor reps for us all right? Yes.
To help with that okay.
I have got that and I appreciate you bearing with me on that.
Steve the broader question is what’s your expectation for Pat as you hand over the reins and are you expecting business as usual continue with the plan is it a new look at the current operations and maybe a new strategy or adding in.
How much of a change would you expect to see in this 6 to 12 months down the line? I would expect big changes from Pat.
Pat is very successfully and he has been successful at every position he has had in different companies.
And I know that he is very excited about his opportunity her at CryoLife.
The one objective that he has told me to my face that he has immediately is he wants to grow the market cap to a billion dollars and I’m going to do everything I can to help him get there.
Did he put a timeframe on that billion dollar market cap? Well his contract is for three years he would want to do it in that timeframe.
All right thanks.
We look forward to see in the new changes and what happens when you put all of your time on new business development.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Jeffrey Cohen of Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys thanks for taking my questions.
Hello Jeff.
Hi so firstly can we talk about HeRO a bit it looks like there a good object for the quarter what’s the status of the launching development in Europe? We are currently in 11 about 10 or 11 countries in the European region right now.
I think one of the things that will need to continue to develop to further drive that opportunity is working on some reimbursement in each individual country.
But right now we’re currently in about 10 or 11 countries and it seems to be going well.
I think for the second quarter we generated about a $170 000 in revenues in international market.
So we were pleased with that and we continue to see that business development growth.
Okay.
And could you talk a little bit about the market and the share; do you believe that you are picking market now or you picking up market as a result from others the overall market or some of the trends going away from fit to work? Well again I think this is a product that is really for the patients that are really out of options and if you look at those patients who are out of excess options that have developed central venous stenosis.
The HeRO Graft is really the only product on the market there that really meets the needs of the patient and the storage.
And so it’s really not taking market share but more developing the market.
So its creating more product awareness training surgeons and we continue our efforts in those areas.
Okay.
One more if I may could you talk about the vast (indiscernible) markets well it sounded like you had a little bit of a hiccup and as you had said it resumed did was there any catch up associated with it resuming or is pretty much a missed period? I think it was by in large a missed period and especially in the month of April and May in the second quarter there were we had limited tissue available for shipment and we’ve probably lost some of those cases to competitors.
As our tissues came back online in the months of predominantly June and into July our business is back to where we expected it to be.
So we’re very optimistic about our ability to supply an adequate amount of tissues to our certain customers over the balance of this year.
And the results in June and July so far have been very good.
Perfect.
Thanks for taking the questions I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from Joe Munda of Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Steve and Ashley thanks for taking the questions.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Steve just real quick in your prepared remarks regarding PerClot Topical and the capacity and your expectations is there going to be significant capital outlays to increase the capacity 10 times? No there won’t be.
Okay.
We’ve already bought the equipment to do that and it’s a matter of validating it and getting our early production runs done with the much larger capacity equipment.
But that’s here it’s installed.
Okay.
And if I recall you said $7.5 million for total PerClot in 2015? Yes I did.
Okay just wanted to double check with that.
Ashley as far as CapEx was concerned for the six months where are you guys at? We were a little over $2 million for the first half of the year Joe.
I think that would probably will spend a little bit more than we’ve spent in the past couple of years to for some the work associated with our ongoing efforts with the FDA.
But I don’t think it’s going to be significantly more than what you’ve seen in the past couple of years.
You may see it in the $4 million range for the full year.
But and maybe even to next year or two but beyond that it should probably hopefully moderate after that.
And I guess Steve as far as your commentary on sales force and the additions what is the total size of the sales force you incorporate all lines of business as we speak? With the addition of the new manufacturer reps about 70 people.
70 people is that a number that is a good number to carry you into 2015 or do you envision adding more reps in 2015 as well? We’re intending to have 70 reps carry us well into 2015.
If PerClot sales are better than we expect and of course we’ll augment that.
Okay.
And then I guess my final question Steve and Ashley I was wondering I wanted to get your take on the Medtronic acquisition of Covidien and any potential impacts positives negatives opportunities that you guys may see as a result of that? Thank you.
I would expect that those that’s a very large organization my understanding is there is not a turn of overlap.
But I would expect it there would probably be some type of strategic review that was done of assets in that organization over the next year or two.
And hopefully that may create some opportunities for us it remains to be same as to whether it will or not but hopefully it will.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing comments.
Well thank you for joining us today.
And we look forward to talking with you in the next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to CryoLife Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to management.
Thank you you may begin.
Good morning this is Ashley Lee.
Welcome to our third quarter conference call.
Before we begin I’d like to make the following statements to comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2014 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factor section of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and our Form 10-Qs for the first and second quarters of 2014 the Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2014 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that was issued this morning.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Pat Mackin.
Thanks Ashley and good morning and thanks for joining the call today.
On the call this morning we’ll cover four topics.
First I will provide a brief review of my background and the reasons that I joined CryoLife.
Second I’ll provide a high level summary of our Q3 results.
Third I’ll provide an update on the top priorities for the company.
And fourth be followed by Ashley Lee our CFO who will take you through Q3 financial results and provide an update to our guidance.
Finally we’ll then open up the lines for Q&amp;A.
So let’s get started.
I’d like to take a few minutes to introduce myself and give you some background as to why I’m excited about leading CryoLife.
As you know I joined CryoLife on September 2<sup>nd</sup> as President &amp; CEO and I was recently elected to the Board of Directors.
CryoLife is a natural fit to my over 20 years of leadership experience in cardiac and vascular medical companies.
I spent the last 12 years in Medtronic.
During my time there I lead their global in the vascular business for two years I let their European vascular intervention business for three years and I ran their CRM division for seven year’s.
In the five years before joining Medtronic I led Genzyme’s cardiac surgery business.
So in total I’ve spent more than 20 years running and working in businesses that are focused on cardiac surgeons vascular surgeons interventional cardiology and electrophysiology which ideally suits me for the role here in CryoLife.
Given my strong cardiac and vascular background there were several things that attracted me to the company.
First the company has existing novel and innovative products like BioGlue the HeRO Graft and SynerGraft Technology.
Second they have a seasoned professional sales team that are focused on cardiac and vascular surgeons.
Third recently launched products like PerClot Topical and about to be launched ProCol and sooner after PhotoFix.
Four the prospects for longer term indication expansion of products like PerClot in the U.S.
surgical market as well as BioGlue in Japan.
Five a profitable and growing business to enable future acquisitions.
And sixth when taken altogether these factors have created a very strong CryoLife brand in the cardiac and vascular surgery markets.
I’m excited about combining my experience and knowledge of the cardiac and vascular customary markets with these strengths that I’ve mentioned.
While I’ve only been here for a part of the organization for a short time I’ve been impressed with the caliber of the team and the growth strategy they have established.
In addition I’ve meet with a number of customers around the world which has enhanced my conviction in the strength of our product offering and the entire organization.
At this point I’m still in the process of evaluating our businesses and do not anticipate significant changes to our operations until it completed a strategic reviewing plan with both the management team and the board.
Turning now to the third quarter results.
This morning we reported solid operating results for the third quarter.
Total revenues increased 2% year-over-year to a third quarter record of $37.1 million this was led by 8% growth in our product revenues which reached $20.4 million.
This was driven by strong revenue performance across several product categories including BioGlue and PerClot which were up 6% and 13% respectively.
And HeRO Graft which was up 45% from the same period last year.
We’ve generated $2.5 million in cash flow from operations and on the bottom line we delivered earnings per share of $0.08.
What I’ve concluded in my comments Ashley will provide a detailed review of the Q3 financial results.
As we work to prepare our five year strategic plan in the coming months I wanted to provide an overview of where my focus will be during this timeframe.
And we will provide updates on these key initiatives each quarter.
The three areas that I’ll be focusing on are as follows; number one improving our quality systems and resolving the FDA warning letter.
Number two launching three new products; PerClot Topical ProCol and PhotoFix.
And number three expanding indication of key products PerClot U.S.
Surgical IDE and BioGlue indication expansion in Japan.
First on the quality front the entire organization has been focused on completing all actions related to the following [ph] three observations with the goal being prepared for future FDA re-inspection and the lifting of the warning letter.
In addition we recently meet with the FDA’s Atlanta district office regarding our warning letter and confirmed to them that this is our number one priority and that we are working hard to improve our quality systems and prepare for the warning letter re-inspection.
We expect that the FDA will conduct a facility re-inspection in the next three to four months and in meantime we expect to continue to process our tissue products and distribute them as usual with no disruption to our operations or overall business.
Second I’d like to provide an update on our new products launches.
As discussed on our last conference call we began the initial launch of the PerClot Topical hemostatic powder in the U.S.
ENT market just before the Labor Day holiday.
We are pleased that we had numerous customers that are actively trying PerClot Topical throughout the U.S.
including many sites could have the product in front of their value analysis committee for we think we have an advantage versus the competition.
We’ve received very positive surgeon feedback on PerClot Topical’s performance confirming our confidence in its efficacy.
We expect to see further adoption in a niche reviews from PerClot Topical sales beginning in the fourth quarter this year and we look forward to updating you on the progress on our Q4 earnings call.
In the fourth quarter we also expect to benefit from the launch of ProCol.
In mid-October Hancock Jaffe received PMA approval for their new manufacturing facility which allowed them to restart ProCol manufacturing.
As a reminder ProCol is complimentary to the HeRO Graft and the treatment continuum of end-stage renal disease and the product is used after the failure of a synthetic graft.
There is currently one player in the market with a bovine carotid artery product that had $11 million business last year.
Our ProCol product is comprised of bovine mesenteric vein that has been through a proprietary process that we feel offer significant product differentiation advantage.
The vein has higher elastin content than artery and has shown higher pain rates in clinical trials of two years.
ProCol had a 73% two year pain fee whereas the competition was at 64%.
So we are confident that our strong vascular surgery sales team will take share with this novel and differentiated product.
We’ve just begun to receive initial shipments in ProCol inventory or are in the process of rolling out the product in Q4.
Additionally we expect to launch the PhotoFix bovine pericardial patch later in the fourth quarter or early next year.
We believed PhotoFix has the potential to become the product of choice of pediatric cardiac surgeons in the $30 million plus market for biological patches used in cardiac and vascular surgical procedures.
I recently spent time at a top pediatric cardiac center in the U.S.
all the surgeons had previous experience with the product they confirmed the differentiated benefits compared to other commercially available products.
The product is easy to use as it’s ready off the shelf and doesn’t require any processing it has unique channeling [ph] characteristics which are similar to anthologist tissue and it says there is no good aldehyde treatment required.
The surgeons we spoke were very excited that we will be sending the product and are looking forward to having it available again for their patients.
As for the third area of focus one of our biggest opportunities for growth is the expansion of the U.S.
indication of PerClot into general surgery cardiac surgery and urology surgery.
There is currently only one competitor in this products base the revenues for which are currently estimated at approximately $60 million annually.
In terms of our U.S.
IDE clinical trial for PerClot for using surgical procedures we now expect enrolment in the trial to begin in the first quarter of 2015.
As a reminder we have already received an approval from the FDA for the trial and we’re working to finalize the trial protocol and other design considerations.
We have a planned call with the FDA during the fourth quarter to address their study design considerations after which we intend to resubmit the IDE for approval.
Based on the current timelines this would position us for a potential FDA approval of PerClot surgical in 2017.
In addition on the near term indication expansion opportunity is BioGlue in Japan.
The current indication for BioGlue in Japan is for aortic dissections as indication that our distributors have done a very good job in penetrating.
This new expansion broadly use of BioGlue beyond the aortic dissections into all aortic cardiac and large additional procedures which would double the market opportunity.
We are working with our partner there as well as with MHLW in Japan and hope to see an approval in the first half of 2015.
With our focus on the PerClot Topical launches as well as U.S.
IDE I’d like to provide a brief update regarding our ongoing litigation with C.R.
Bard.
Following our filing of an action for declaratory judgment action Bard and certain of its subsidiaries requesting confirmation that our sales of PerClot will not infringe Bard’s patent.
Our entire claim for patent infringement and also filed for preliminary injunctioning as CryoLife aiming to prevent us from selling PerClot Topical in the U.S.
The preliminary injunction hearing date is set 1<sup>st</sup> January.
We believe that we have a strong case in merit to the infringement claims and feel confident in our ability to prevail in a preliminary injunction motion.
In any event we’ll continue our launch of PerClot topical and moving forward with our PerClot IDE clinical trial.
The final update is regarding the FDA circulatory systems device panel meeting that was held on October 9<sup>th</sup>.
This is for the classification or for CryoValve SG Pulmonary Human Heart Valve products which historically has been unclassified.
I attend to the panel meeting and our team presented the preliminary analysis of prospective and retrospective study covering 800 patient years of positive safety and efficacy data on these products.
While we are hoping for a recommendation to classify CryoValve SG as a Class II medical device the panel voted 12:4 to recommended classification as a Class III medical device which would require a PMA.
With the panel’s recommendation in hand the FDA will now make a decision on CryoValve SG’s classification.
We expect that the FDA will announce a preliminary decision by the end of this year or an early Q1 likely in favor of Class III.
Noting [ph] this decision has been released we plan to discuss with the FDA the requirements for approval of a PMA and we are hopeful that we’ll be able to utilize our existing data to support these efforts.
In addition usually a 30-month transition period for companies to become compliant with the new regulatory requirements related to reclassification.
So in the near term we expect that it will be business as usual with respect to our processing and sales of the SG CryoValve Heart Valve.
I will now turn the call over to Ashley for detailed review of our third quarter results and updated financial guidance.
Thanks Pat.
This morning we reported our results for the third quarter of 2014.
We continue to make progress on executing our strategy to leverage our established salesforce to drive growth from an expanding portfolio of high margin medical device products.
The following factors influenced our third quarter performance.
Total company revenues increased to $37.1 million for the third quarter driven by 8% year-over-year revenue growth from our higher margin product segment.
Our international revenues were up 4% for the third quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year period primarily driven by growth outside of Europe.
Our domestic revenues increased 2% for the third quarter of 2014 compared to the prior year period primarily driven by 35% increase in HeRO Graft revenues.
I have more on that later in my comments.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues in the third quarter were up 6% year-over-year.
International BioGlue revenues were up 11% on an 11% increase in volume.
Domestic BioGlue revenues were up 3% on a 1% increase in volume.
This was the fifth straight quarter that we’ve seen an increase in domestic volume year-over-year.
Total company HeRO Graft revenues increased 45% to $2 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared to $1.4 million in the third quarter of 2013.
This came on a 45% increase in volume.
This increase reflects the growing interest in the HeRO Graft as a long term solution for hemodialysis patients who are out of excess options.
Internationally we continue with our launch into European markets where we recorded $167 000 in revenue during the quarter.
Overall we remain very optimistic about the prospects of the HeRO Graft.
PerClot sales increased 13% for the third quarter of 2014 compared to the third quarter of 2013.
The increase is due to growth in both new geographies and new indications including neurology and neurosurgery.
The quarter included a nominal amount of revenue from the U.S.
where we launched PerClot Topical just before Labor Day.
We continue to actively trial the product and work our way through a new product in value analysis.
We continue to believe that this opportunity will have a meaningful impact on our sales in the future.
Although revenues from our TMR product line decreased 2% in the third quarter of 2014 compared to 2013 which resulted primarily from a decrease in console sales hand piece volume grew 12% year-over-year and 7% sequentially over to the third quarter of 2014.
Tissue processing revenues were down 4% for the quarter compared to the prior year.
The majority of this decrease resulted from a $600 000 decrease in tissue shipments into Europe.
Recall that we discontinued regular shipments in the EU earlier this year.
Our domestic tissue processing revenues decreased 1% year-over-year.
Our effective tax rate for the third quarter was 21%.
The tax rate benefited from favorable deductions taken on the company’s 2013 tax return which was filed in the third quarter of 2014.
We expect that our effective tax rate for the full year will be approximately 25% and we expect it to be even lower than that if the R&amp;D tax credit is renewed for 2014 before the end of the year.
As of June 30 2014 we had $35.7 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
We had several large cash outlays in the first nine months of 2014.
They included approximately $4.6 million for share repurchases $2.5 million for dividends $2.1 million for PerClot inventory purchases pursuant to minimum purchase requirements $2.1 million related to business development activities in particular for ProCol and $1 million for development milestone payments for PerClot.
Despite these uses of cash our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry no debt and expect to continue to generate operating cash flow.
Finally during the quarter we renewed our credit facility with GE Healthcare Finance.
Together with our strong balance sheet and cash flow generation our credit facility provides us the needed capacity and flexibility to execute our strategic plan going forward.
Please refer to our SEC filings for detailed discussions or factors affecting our results of operations including our Form 10-Q that we plan to file shortly.
Now I will update our guidance for 2014.
We are reiterating our revenue guidance and expect total revenues to be between $144 million and $146 million.
This represents annual total revenue growth between 2% and 4%.
We expect revenues from our higher margin product segment to increase in the mid to high single digits on a percentage basis for the full year of 2014.
We expect tissue processing revenues to be down slightly through full year of 2014 compared to 2013.
We now expect R&amp;D expenses to be between $9 million and $10 million in 2014 primarily reflecting our investments in our U.S.
clinical trials for PerClot.
We are raising our fully diluted earnings per share guidance with the full year 2014 to a range of $0.22 and $0.24 up from our previous range of between $0.17 and $0.20.
This includes the effects of the reduced R&amp;D expense guidance lower tax rate guidance and the additional compensation expense related till the appointment of the new company President and CEO and other executive personal changes.
It is important to note that our guidance does not reflect activities related to business development which are difficult to predict.
That concludes my comments and I’ll turn it back over to over Pat.
So at this point we’re going to go ahead and open up the lines for the Q&amp;A session.
Operator could you come back on.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Ashley and Pat thanks for taking our questions.
Hello Jeff.
How are you? I saw you jump around but I’m – for PhotoFix did you make an upfront payment and what was the amount and was that made in the third quarter? No.
We made an upfront payment to Genesee back in late first quarter early second quarter of this year and that was approximately $0.25 million.
Got it.
Can you talk about ProCol number of SKUs that you expect sizes diameters and lengths? We’re going to have four.
We’re going to have a – and they are all going to be 6 millimeters in diameter in various lengths 10 25 30 and 40 centimeter grafts.
10 25 30 and 40? Yes.
Okay.
You don’t expect longer than 40? No.
Okay.
So could you talk a little bit about the ProCol idea it looks like you had a slight delay could you talk about the protocol changes or the study design changes or reconsiderations that have been made? This is Pat.
So clearly the clinical trials and making sure you get your protocol whether the FDA is happy with what you’ve got we’ve actually had an IDE approval for quite a period of time however there has been some items that they’ve wanted to kind of refine to make sure that when this is all said and done we’ve meet the requirements and we’ve got a trial that we feel good about take it through the panel or through the PMA process.
So it’s really some final refinements around statistical plan and this is a – the fact we’ve got multiple indications inside of one trial creates a little bit of complexity so this trial is 324 patients they are going to be cardiac patients there is going to be urology patients and general surgery patients.
So I mean that’s really where this is all around the statistical plan and really making sure that we have buying from the FDA on what we’re going to perform with.
Okay.
Same number of centers expected? Yes.
Okay.
Could you talk about the CryoValve SG if there is a transition for a Class III and PMA? What’s the current sales revenue now of the product on an annual basis or quarterly basis that you could talk about? It’s about $10 million to $11 million on an annual basis.
Okay.
So theoretically you may have an R&amp;D done in roles over 20 or 30 months which should not affect the sales as it’s going on? Well that’s correct.
This is actually a pretty complicated I’ve been to 10 FDA panels I’ve never been to a classification panel.
I think the last classification panels were in the 70s.
So this is a fairly unique panel because typically you bring a product to a panel and they evaluate the merits of that product and decide to approve or not approve.
This is very unique in a fact that they were there – the panel was there to discuss a whole class of products which is more than minimally manipulated tissue valves and/or homograft’s and we just happen to have the only product that’s approved.
So it’s a little bit confusing I think.
Many of the panel members that voted said that they agreed that this category should move to a Class III but CryoLife you guys should work to get this product approved probably because we’ve got such great data.
So the steps of the process on this reclassification are threefold.
Number one the panel has made a recommendation of the FDA; they are purdue to decide what to do with that.
My sense was that they will move this to a Class III recommendation there will be a period of time for public comment and once that’s done that will be in the next probably six to nine months.
We will then go and meet with the FDA and see what they are looking forward from us to go through the PMA process.
As I commented in my comments CryoLife has undergone a pretty extensive clinical program as a post market requirement to the original 510-K that they got back in the 2003-2004 timeframe.
That included 800 patients years follow up that data is just being wrapped up we showed the preliminary results at the panel meeting and that will be finalized here by the end of the year.
So our hope is that we’ve actually shown that this product is safe and effective we’ve got 800 years of patient follow up.
My hope is that we can work with the agency to use our existing data to go forward with the PMA but we still have to have that conversation.
But no matter what happens this is going to be a three to four year process as we work through kind of working with the agency.
Got it.
Just a couple of more if I may any notable pricing changes for Q3 or Q4 expected? No we had our last increase right at the very beginning of Q3 and there are none that are currently contemplated for the balance of the year.
Okay one more.
Could you talk about the appetite for acquisitions pipeline out there that you’re seeing for acquisitions on the BD front? And thanks again.
Obviously one of the attractions to the company for me was as I commented earlier I’ve got a lot of experience in the cardiac and vascular space I know the customers I know the markets I think at some degree that CryoLife has got an abundance of opportunities in directions we could go.
So part of what I’m going to be doing I’m spending a lot of time in the field with customers with our cardiac customers our vascular customers.
But we also have unique technologies that are coming out in other spaces so that’s going to be a process that I’ll be going through with the management team over the next three to six months on what is our strategic direction and where do we want to kind of double down on the M&amp;A side because that’s one of the real appeals of the company is that we could really strong cardiac and vascular brand good sales forces and we’ve got cash flow and the opportunity with no debt to make acquisitions and there is a number of different things that I’m interested I’m obviously not going to comment on what they are but I think there is a lot of different opportunities and we just have to figure out given the market dynamics the competitive dynamics what’s available what’s in our price range what fits there is lots of things we have to go through and I’ve got a lot of experience I’ve done 50-60 deals in my career.
So we’ll be looking at that but I’m obviously not going to share much more than that because – I’m not going to show my cards.
Okay.
Guys thanks very much for taking the questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Munda with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Pat and Ashley thanks for taking my questions.
Hey Joe good morning.
As far as the – the last caller touched on the PerClot IDE I’m just wondering how should we look at the cost going forward is there any material change from your outlook prior to when we actually thought the trial would take place how should we look at it? I think Ashley can comment further but I think the biggest difference is going to be you see that our R&amp;D spend has been light primarily because of the PerClot IDE has been delayed again because of the working through the FDA.
So as soon as we get that trial the protocol agreed to with the FDA and we started enrolling those expenses are going to go back up to what we anticipated them being this year.
Yes I still think that we’re probably $5 million plus from fully completing the trial if we start enrolment in the first quarter as anticipated there is a good chance that a significant portion of that is going to be spend or incurred during 2015 in regards to our full R&amp;D spend for 2015 we’re going to have more to say about that and our year-end earnings conference call that’s typically when we get our first look on what the guidance is going to be for 2015.
Okay.
And then I guess on BioGlue Japan you touched on it a little bit here with the indication the hopes for approval can you give us some sense of what the actual market opportunity would be like in Japan.
I’m not sure if I caught that.
Yes I will give you some specifics.
The current indication gets a little bit technical but the current indication for BioGlue in Japan is for aortic dissections which is a very narrow application.
That is about $5 million opportunity and our partners there the distributors there have actually done a nice job penetrating that because it’s a real need it’s kind of life and death type product.
The other big applications for BioGlue in cardiac surgery in most of the markets around the world we also have – that product can be used in complex aortic surgery in cardiac surgery as well as great vessel surgery.
So it doubles the opportunity.
So the current $5 million market probably goes then to $10 million range.
Okay.
And then in terms of – I’m jumping around as well in terms of the case with C.R.
Bard when would you hope that this would be fully resolved? I know you can’t go into specific details but I know you said that January case date are we assuming some resolution in January or is this thing going to be pushed out a couple of months? Yes there is a date set for January – in the comments I made Bard is going for preliminary injunctioning in the U.S.
and that trial date is set for January.
So we will get obviously an early read.
My own opinion is that this is – I think we’ve got a very strong case but I think when you look at the financials of the cost of a patent battle for us and for them from a business standpoint I just don’t think it makes sense to take this thing to trial.
Their patent runs out in February of 2019 we’re not going to commercialize PerClot surgical until 2017.
So you can do the math it just doesn’t make a lot of sense so even if they won flat out and got a royalty it doesn’t pay for their legal bill.
So I’m not sure why they would want to take this thing forward but we feel like we have a good case and we’ll take it forward but I just think it makes a lot more sense to settle this thing than it does to fight it out.<i></i> Okay.
And then I guess my last question on the tissue processing side of the business I know you guys talked about that you had stopped shipments in EU earlier this year.
Any plans to reengage EU or is that segment you’re staying away from? Well we’ve had – I let Ashley comment because obviously just given my limited time here.
We had looked at turning tissues back on if you will in Germany and Austria and are going through the process to look at what that would entail.
So we’re kind of in the middle of that raid now but we’re not prepared to commit whether we’re going to do it or not we’re just in the planning stage.
I don’t know if Ashley you want to add anything? No I think that’s fair.
We’re just going through the analysis right now and when we make a determination we’ll let you know.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
I appreciate everybody joining the call this morning.
As I commented I’m very excited about what I see here from – we’ve got three nice product launches coming out of the gates we’ve got some mid-term things coming we’ve got some long term opportunities in the PerClot IDE trial we’ve got a good sales force and I think the ability to acquire into unique spaces that we can make a difference.
I’ve been here for two months and again I’m very excited about what I see here and I look forward to working with our team here to take the business forward.
So we look forward to giving you guys an update on the next call.
Thanks for joining.
This concludes today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.
Greetings and welcome to CryoLife Fourth Quarter and Year End 2014 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now pleasure to introduce your host Ashley Lee Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you you may begin.
Hi good morning.
This is Ashley Lee.
Before we begin I'd like to make the following statements to comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future including the guidance for 2015 that I will provide in a moment.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the company’s SEC filings including the Risk Factor section of our 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 our 10-Qs for 2014 the 10-K for 2014 which we expect to file shortly and in the press release that was issued this morning.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley and good morning.
Thank you for joining the call today.
On this call this morning we will cover several items I'll provide a high level summary of the fourth quarter and full year results.
I'll review the key takeaways from my first hundred days on the job with CryoLife and I will provide an update on our key initiatives for 2015.
Following my comments Ashley Lee our CFO will provide a detail review of our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results and 2015 guidance.
We will then open the lines for a Q&amp;A session.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter and full year results reported earlier this morning total revenues increased 5% in the fourth quarter to $37.2 million for the full year the revenues increased 3% to $144.6 million.
The positive trend in the fourth quarter was driven by a 12% increase in product revenues including strong performance from BioGlue up 11% for the quarter for HeRO up 10% for the quarter and for PerClot up 52% for the quarter.
Our tissue processing revenues decreased 4% in the quarter primarily due to the implementation of new and enhanced quality systems that reduced our production volumes of key tissue products.
Ashley will provide further details about our Q4 and full year financial results during his remarks.
I joined CryoLife in September of last year with a goal of leveraging my 20 years of experience in the cardiac and vascular markets to enhance the CryoLife business and strategy.
During my first hundred days on the job I dedicated a significant portion of my time to thoroughly learning and evaluating the state of the company to better understand what we're doing well where our biggest opportunities lie and what we can do better.
This includes field drives with 12 of our sales representatives visiting more than 75 physician’s customers into the operating rooms and major medical meetings attending investor conferences and meeting one-on-one with our top 50 employees of the company.
Coming out of this evaluation I was pleased with the positive feedback that I received from our customers on our team and our product portfolio.
Having been in this space for 20 years I was still surprised to learn just how unique our tissue products are in the minds of our surgeons and the access it provides our sales force.
My time spent with our sales representatives confirmed the high quality relationships and deep experience of our team.
I was also impressed with the engagement and quality interactions I had with top employees and the senior leadership team.
Overall I now have a better understanding of the company my colleagues and the opportunities and challenges that face the business.
We are now working to develop a 5 year strategic plan that will move CryoLife toward becoming a growth company.
In the meantime we continue to execute on the key initiatives that I laid out on our Q3 conference call with several opportunities for growth and value creation over the next few years.
The four key areas are number one improving our quality systems and resolving the FDA warning letter.
Number two building momentum for our three new product launches which are ProCol PhotoFix and PerClot Topical.
Number three increasing our global production and distribution footprint and number four expanding indications of key products particularly with PerClot Surgical IDE clinical trial in the US and BioGlue in Japan.
First I will begin with an update on the quality systems which has been my number one priority since I started with the company.
I have personally led weekly top leadership meetings focused on addressing all issues raised by the FDA.
In addition expert consultants that are assisting us as we improve our quality systems and processes have augmented those efforts.
We've also made personnel changes to ensure that we have the right leadership in place to drive the necessary improvements in our quality systems.
I am pleased to report that we made excellent progress and believe these changes put us in an improved position for the FDA’s re-inspection which we expect to occur in the near future.
While we are pleased that we are making meaningful progress with our quality systems the investments in our systems and processes are having a negative impact on our tissue processing business.
First they are decreasing our production capacity as we implement these procedures and second they are decreasing our gross margins in the near and mid term.
We are identifying efficiency opportunities to return our margins to historical levels and are working on other programs that should further enhance our margins.
However we do not expect to realize these positive benefits from these initiatives until late in 2015 due to the delay of the cost going through the P&amp;L that recycle through our inventory.
Second on the new product front the initial feedback is been excellent.
We launched ProCol during the fourth quarter and achieved over a hundred thousand of revenue.
For those who may not be aware ProCol is complementary to the HeRO Graft and its treatment continuum of end-stage renal disease after a failure of a synthetic graft.
There is one player in this market segment with a bovine carotid artery product.
We believe that our ProCol product which is comprised of bovine mesenteric vein that is processed using a proprietary method offers a significant advantage over this competitive product.
Recent clinical trials have demonstrated that ProCol has higher patency rates at 2 years.
ProCol was at 73% two year patency while the competitor was at 64%.
ProCol is a proven and effective technology and we expect continued surgeon adoption and sales growth in the coming quarters.
In January we launched the PhotoFix Bovine Pericardial Patch in the US and our team has already achieved key wins in the pediatric market as well receiving favorable surgeon feedback.
We continue to believe that PhotoFix has the potential to become the product of choice for pediatric cardiac surgeons in the $30 million plus market for biological patches used in cardiac and vascular surgical procedures.
Surgeon feedback during my site visits and at the FDS meeting have been extremely positive as surgeons were excited about the availability of PhotoFix for their patients.
Our teams are working to gain approval for PhotoFix in EU countries and we are in the process of evaluating the pathway to use PhotoFix in the US for carotid endarterectomy procedures.
Our third recent new product is PerClot Topical which we launched in late Q3.
During the fourth quarter we had significant trialing of the product and are currently working our way through the value analysis committees at the hospitals.
The initial feedback on the product has been positive and we continue to believe it is an excellent product for use in conjunction with best procedures.
We are still early in the launch of PerClot Topical and continue to evaluate potential distribution options beyond the CryoLife sales force to better target ENT physicians.
Our third key initiative is our global product and distribution footprint.
As we entered 2915 we plan to begin the pros of the transitioning a major country in Europe from a distributor to a direct sales model.
As Ashley will outline this will have a near term impact on our 2015 international revenue as our distributor works down their inventory before we launch direct operations in Q4.
However once we are direct we will benefit from the transition to direct sales pricing and margins with greater control over the sales strategy initiatives for the team and further product launch synergies.
At this time we have not identified or committed to transition any additional markets but there is something we will consider on a case-by-case basis in the future if we believe there was a strategic benefit.
The fourth initiative of our strategy is expanding indications for products in our portfolio.
Our biggest opportunity for mid term growth is the expansion of the US indication for PerClot into general surgery cardiac surgery and neurology surgery.
We've already received approval from the FDA for our trial and plan on enrolling our first patient in the IDE in the first quarter of 2015.
Given this first enrollment it would position us for an US FDA approval of PerClot surgical in the second half of 2017.
Our patent infringement lawsuit against C.R.
Bard which we discussed in the Q3 call is continuing.
Adhering on Bard's motion for a preliminary injunction to place in late January and we are currently awaiting our ruling on that motion.
We remain confident about our legal position both in respect with preliminary injunction motion in the broader case.
Another indication expansion opportunity is BioGlue in Japan.
The current indication for BioGlue in Japan is for aortic dissections while the new indication expansion with broadly use of BioGlue into all aortic cardiac and large vessel procedures essentially doubling the market opportunity.
We are continuing to work through our distributor partner with MHLW in Japan and exploring approval in the first half of this year.
I will now turn the call over to Ashley for a detailed review of the fourth quarter for full year results and 2015 financial guidance.
Thanks Pat.
This morning we reported our results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2014.
The following factors influenced our fourth quarter and full year performance.
Total company revenues increased 5% to $37.2 million for the fourth quarter driven by 12% year-over-year revenue growth from our higher margin product segment.
Our fourth quarter international revenues were $9.2 million up 20% compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the full year international revenues were $34.1 million an increase of 8% year-over-year.
International revenues accounted for 25% of our business in the fourth quarter and 24% for the full year.
The increase in international revenues were driven by strong sales of BioGlue PerClot and HeRO.
Our domestic revenues increased 1% for the fourth quarter of 2014 and full year of 2014 compared to the prior year periods.
The full year increases were driven primarily by an increase in BioGlue and HeRo revenues partially offset by a decrease in tissue processing revenues.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues in the fourth quarter were up 11% year-over-year.
International BioGlue revenues were up 19% on an 18% [ph] increase in volume.
Domestic BioGlue revenues were up 5% on a 2% increase in volume.
For the full year 44% of our BioGlue revenues were generated in international markets up from 43% in 2013.
HeRO Graft revenues increased 10% to $1.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $1.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase was primarily driven by increased adoption of the HeRO Graft in international markets where we are still in the early stages of the product rollout.
PerClot revenues increased 52% for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
The increase was due to continued growth in European markets where revenues increased 21% and the opening of new markets in South America and Asia Pacific.
The quarter included a nominal amount of revenue from the US where we launched PerClot Topical just before Labor Day.
Revenues from our TMR product line increased 1% for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to 2013 which resulted primarily from a 17% increase in hand piece volume mostly offset by a decrease in laser console sales.
Tissue processing revenues were down 4% for the quarter compared to the prior year while our tissue processing gross margin also decreased year-over-year for the fourth quarter.
Tissue processing revenues were down due to the processing changes resulting from our efforts to enhance our quality systems.
These changes have resulted in a temporary decrease in processing capacity and reduced availability of certain high demand tissues.
The net result is that our revenues decreased due to the lack of availability and our cost have increased which is reflected in our lower tissue processing margins in the fourth quarter of 2014 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2013.
However we have not seen any significant change in customer demand for our tissue products.
General administrative and marketing expenses were $18.6 million for the quarter and $73.8 million for the full year up from $16.7 million and $68.1 million for the comparable periods in the prior year.
The fourth quarter and full year increases were primarily due to the cost associated with executive management changes in our patent infringement lawsuit with Bard.
During the fourth quarter we wrote-off our $2 million note receivable from ValveXchange which was mostly offset by a reversals of a $1.4 million liability for contingent consideration related to our Hemosphere acquisition which we no longer expect to have to pay and a gain of $530 000 related to the sale of our investment in Medafor all of these items are reflected in other income and expenses.
The carrying value of the investment in ValveXchange the note receivable from ValveXchange and the contingent consideration payable to Hemosphere are now all zero.
We had a tax benefit for the fourth quarter of 2014 and our effective tax rate for the full year was 16%.
The tax rate for the fourth quarter and full year benefited from reductions in uncertain tax positions non-taxable gains related to the reversal of the contingent consideration labiality favorable deductions taken on the company’s 2013 tax return and R&amp;D tax credits recorded in the fourth quarter.
As of December 31 2014 we had $39.3 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
We had several large outlays of cash during the year.
These included $5.6 million for share repurchases $3.3 million for dividends $2.1 million for PerClot inventory purchases pursuant to minimum purchase requirements $2.1 million related to business development activities in particular for ProCol and $1 million for development milestone payments for PerClot.
Despite these uses of cash our balance sheet remains very strong.
We continue to carry no debt and expect to continue to generate operating cash flow.
Now for our initial guidance for 2015.
There were several items affecting 2015 guidance that are transient in nature and we believe will not recur in 2016 positioning the company for improved top and bottom line growth after 2015.
I'll discuss each of these items in detail as I talk about the 2015 guidance.
We expect total revenues to between $151 million and $153 million.
This represents annual total revenue growth of 4% to 6%.
We expect revenues from our higher margin product segment to increase in the mid single digits on a percentage basis for the full year of 2015.
This guidance includes the anticipated FX of the following factors.
One we estimate that FX will adversely affect our top line in our product segment by approximately $1 million.
Two as Pat mentioned we plan to move to a hand [ph] market beginning in October which we believe will adversely affect our top line by approximately $2 million in the first three quarters of 2015.
In 2014 we generated approximately $2.8 million in sales to our distributor in this market as our distributors sales down their existing inventory we expect to have no sales in 2015 in that country until we go direct in October.
However for 2016 we expect that our new direct sales force will generate significantly more end user revenue in 2016 than we did from our distributor model in 2014.
We expect tissue processing revenues to grow low single digits on a percentage basis for the full year of 2015 compared to 2014.
This reflects continued customer demand for our tissue products offset by lower processing capacity as we implement and refine new quality programs and processes.
We expect our gross margins in 2015 to be around 60% comparative with 63% in 2014.
There are a couple of factors contributing to the margin decrease for 2015.
First the cost associated with improving our quality systems including consulting fees and process changes have temporarily resulted in decrease capacity and other inefficiencies in our tissue processing operations.
As a result we expect the gross margins in our tissue processing operations to be in the upper 30% range versus the mid 40% range historically.
However we've already identified many opportunities for improvement and expect that barring any unforeseen issues tissue processing gross margins could return to historical levels in 2016.
Second recall that we have recently launched three new products both ProCol and PhotoFix which we are currently distributing have gross margins in the 50% range.
However we have the right to purchase both of these product lines in the next couple of years and bring the manufacturing to Atlanta.
If and when we do so we expect the gross margins on both of those businesses to be in the 70 plus percent range.
Additionally we recently launched PerClot Topical here in the US.
Unlike PerClot that we distribute in international markets which we source from our partner PerClot Topical is manufactured by CryoLife in Atlanta.
At low levels of production our gross margins are close to zero.
However once we receive PMA approval for the surgical version of PerClot in the US we have the right to begin manufacturing all PerClot both US and international in our facilities in Atlanta and we expect very attractive gross margins once we directly distribute these products.
Considering all of that we expect gross margins on our product business will be in the mid 70% range for the year.
We expect our G&amp;A expenses to be affected by few items in 2015.
We've included a significant amount in legal fees related to our patent case with Bard.
If we are able to conclude the case in 2015 a significant amount of legal fees won't be recurring in 2016 and depending upon the timing of any resolution the actual amount incurred in 2015 could change materially from our estimates.
Also we have the cost of additional sales reps related to our direct sales strategy in a major European market beginning in October 2015.
We think the annual cost of carrying this direct sales force is just over $1 million on an annual basis.
That I've talked a little already about the positive impact that we expect from going direct – to have on our business beginning in 2016.
We expect research and development expenses to between $13 million and $14 million in 2015 primarily reflecting our investment in our US clinical trial for PerClot which we estimate to be around $5 million in 2015.
Depending upon the rate of enrollment in the trial a substantial portion of that $5 million would not be repeated in 2016 although you should not assume that we won't be investing in another trial or other development activities in 2016.
The net effect of tissue processing European distribution elimination lower margin new products litigation expenses in the PerClot IDE trial is that we expect earnings for the full year of 2015 to be anywhere from a loss of $0.03 to breakeven.
It is important to note that our guidance is not reflective of any activities related to business development which are difficult to predict.
That concludes my comments and now I'll turn it back over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley.
We will now open the lines to take questions for the call.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
So I was going to ask about gross margin but you went through that in great detail so I appreciate that.
On the legal fees sometimes I know you don’t do it on a GAAP basis but sometimes on the investment side we look at extraordinary legal fees as a one time.
Can you put a dollar figure on that as far as incremental that you are expecting in 2015 for the Bard patent suit? Yes.
Hey Tom this is Pat.
Just a couple of things.
One on the just a straight pure straight cost year-over-year the differences from last because obviously that suit is being going on.
The difference is about $1.5 million from 2014 to 2015.
Obviously as Ashley commented in his remarks we're waiting for the feedback on this preliminary injunction hearing that happened on January 23rd.
If we – we felt like we did very well.
We'll wait to hear what the judge says.
But our goal is to come up with a reasonable settlement.
We feel like we had strong case but I don’t think taking this thing all the way to the [Med] [ph] is the smart economic decision for either company.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then on the R&amp;D front it’s a healthy increase in R&amp;D are you doing anything other than starting the PMA trial which is obviously a big deal.
But is there anything else in that R&amp;D that starts to set us up for future growth of new products? Yes.
There's a couple of things and clearly the PerClot trial is the big is actually coming it’s about $5 million investment this year and that’s a big part of the jump.
There are some other things that are embedded that we've talked about publicly that’s more a background work.
So for example in one of my comments we've got the new product PhotoFix which we’re being seeing really good progress as we launch that in pediatric surgery and adult surgery.
But we think there is a big opportunity in carotid endarterectomies and we'll be doing some animal clinical work which is necessary for the 510(k) extension.
The other thing is on the neuro front we mentioned neuro in many of our investor comment or investor presentations where 15% of our revenue in Europe is in neurosurgery.
We know we have a very strong product in that arena some – already some very good data published on that.
And we're going to be working with kind of KOL physicians who have been using this product around the world but also looking at doing some animal work to prepare for a potential IDE down the road.
So those are two things that are kind of – they are smaller but they are clearly increases from last year where we really didn’t spend any money on either of the carotid patch for endarterectomy for animal trials for – in the neuro surgery space.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then my last question Pat is on your number one focus and that is on the FDA.
Last we talked was beginning of December that’s two and half months ago almost three is any granularity any color you can give us on the discussions that have been going on with the FDA in the last three months? Yes.
I can give you some historical perspective in prior jobs.
I mean the fact of the matter is you really don’t have good visibility to when they are going to come.
And the discussions we've had a couple of discussions as I mentioned on my last call I met with a district officer September 29<sup>th</sup>.
We had – I think we've had one phone call with them since and it’s really kind of up to them when they come back.
I can tell you that they – one of the things they told us is they would not let the re-inspection which we're expecting kind of anytime now to lapse more than a year from the previous inspection and just to remind people the last time they were in was kind of February 20th to March 20th.
So I think - we're planning on a re-inspection here in the next 30 days.
I would also say just from a progress standpoint I mentioned this in my comments but this is really been a massive effort for the company myself personally the entire executive team we've had and this is one of the reason you're seeing the cost on the tissue jump in on us is the kind of the total overhaul of the quality systems.
We've seen massive improvements and our [capitals] [ph] have been reduced by 65% our backlog complaints have been reduced by 65% our NCRs have been reduced by 65%.
So we made great progress.
We're obviously waiting for the FDA to come in and we're going to continue to work extremely hard to prepare for that.
But ultimately they are the ones who decide when they come back.
Got it.
That’s it from me.
Thanks.
Thanks Tom.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Pat and Ashley.
How are you? Good morning Jeff.
Good morning Jeff.
Could you talk a little bit about the transition with a specific European country that you are talking about? So what you had said was that $2 million of their inventory would be pared down and that you would be offset and direct during this third quarter.
Could you talk also about the size of the team that you have anticipated for direct sales? Yes.
So I think you guys have all experienced this before with other companies that have gone direct.
And typically what you see is if you look at last year actually we did roughly $2.8 million in a specific country through using a distributor and our plans are to go direct.
But before you could actually benefit from the direct revenues you basically have to burn down the existing inventory that you distribute as a whole and that’s a very common practice Unfortunately we had a little more inventory than we would have liked and we're not going to be able to go live until October 1st but when we do go live October 1st if you go to – kind of jump forward as Ashley said we get a real big pop on the revenue and the margin side.
The team that we're taking about is in the five people range.
We've already been in discussions and it’s a very amicable transition.
So I think that things are progressing well and it’s a real opportunity for the company.
We've seen other markets when we've gone direct not only do you get the bump from distributor revenue and distributor margins to direct revenues and direct margins but you also see just an added bump in the productivity and the focus in the other things we could bring through those channels.
And it’s a significant country in Europe and I think strategically for the company it’s a very good move for the long-term.
I think last thing I would say is if you look over a 5 year period it is a significant improvement in revenue profit cash flow kind of on every metric with a very strong IRR.
Okay.
Got it.
And Ashley you made a little bit of commentary as far as FX effect talking about that $1 million top line effect for 2015 did you seen any effect during the fourth quarter of 2014? We did.
We actually had about a couple hundred thousand dollar negative effect on the top line related to FX.
Okay.
All right.
Just comment on any measures in place to mitigate any of the effect on 2015 and or 2016? No we don’t specifically hedge to protect our top line.
We kind of have a natural hedge and the fact that that we have 25 people on the ground over in Europe.
And so the expenses that we pay which are predominantly in pounds and euro kind of give us a natural hedge to our bottom line.
But again we don’t do anything specifically to hedge our top line exposure.
Okay.
And lastly if I thought you could discuss a little bit about acquisitions in some of the products that you're seeing out there that the company may have interest in? I've commented Jeffrey as we met – we've been publicly making comments about the kind of the fourth strategic vector of M&amp;A.
One of the things this company has done very well is the financial discipline Ashley commented earlier that we're sitting around $39 million of cash no debt and we expect a kind of transient issue in 2015 to move back to see a pretty good profitability going forward.
Given all that I mean we are well poised to acquire and as I've said we have these two really nice chassis; we have a cardiac surgery sale organization in entire business and a vascular surgery business.
There are a number of opportunities.
Every time I go to a new investor meeting or a new physician meeting I am coming back with more and more opportunities and in each one of those categories and I am not – what I am not referring to at least in the early days of what we're looking at this is not something where we're going to do a deal and have to – with no revenue no profit and we're going to have to invest too much money and then three years later you guys may see something.
I am talking about buying existing businesses with existing revenue existing profit and existing people that would be very synergistic with the company.
And again I think there is a tremendous amount of opportunities out there.
More than I actually thought there would be.
Because as I – I've been in the cardiology field for 20 years and I've been on a cardiac surgery for probably 12 and I've been on a vascular surgery for probably 8 to 10.
I've been kind of blown away by the amount of opportunities kind of which we fit with us that are in our kind of real house from a acquisition stand point.
It’s very exciting and again I think that I can't really get more specific then that for obvious reasons.
But we're very excited about that fourth vector of M&amp;A.
Appreciated it.
Thanks for the color.
That’s it from me.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.
Well I appreciate everybody dialing in this morning.
And we are – we try to put together our plan for 2015 that recognizes some of the challenges and opportunities that we talked about in the transcript.
And a lot of these kind headwinds in 2015 are very transient.
And if I go back to the list on the – on going direct in one of the European countries we're going to take a little bit of hit on the revenue line in 2015 but in 2016 its going to come back stronger than ever with a direct strategic operation there which is going to be good for us in the short term and then back to the M&amp;A question if we do any deals on that front its just going to accelerate that.
The tissue COGS [ph] we're disappointed where the tissue COGS I'll be honest and we – but we've said at the very beginning that quality is number one here and we've had to put some cost in here and as those costs flow through the P&amp;L you're going to see them in the margins.
But I can tell you that is a – once we get out of this FDA which I am hoping to do very quickly here as they will back into the next 30 to 40 days I am going to be shifting all of our efforts to this tissue cost and tissue supply.
Our goals to get our tissue cost back to where they were or even better by the end of this year.
The other thing is there is huge demand for this tissue folks.
We have million of dollars on backwater.
So its not like there is some the revenue short fall on the tissue side is a lack of customer demand it’s actually the opposite.
We've got more demand than we can handle and we need to do a better job of accessing that.
Ashley commented on the new product margin.
We're very excited about ProCol and PhotoFix and those margins are not where our normal product margins are those are in the 50s because of the distributed products versus where we are in the 70s on our direct products.
But we have the ability to take out both of those relationships and go direct if you will and manufacture those ourselves and take the margins up to our historical levels in the next 24 months.
We talked about the Bard litigation.
We obviously feel good about that case and we'll see what the judge says and we'll work to come up with a good solution there.
But that’s a transient item.
And the PerClot trial there is a huge opportunity for the country – for the company and it’s a $5 million investment this year and it tails off in Q1 of next year and then kind of goes away.
I just spent the weekend with a bunch of cardiac surgeons and they were kind of borne away by the products.
So lots of opportunities here but we're trying to be transparent and realistic about 2015 and kind of its all out there for you and we're very excited about where we'd be kind of this time next year.
So we appreciate you calling in and look forward to keeping you updated throughout the year.
Thanks very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to CryoLife First Quarter 2015 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the floor over to management.
Good morning.
This is Ashley Lee.
Before we begin I'd like to make the following statements to comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the Company's or management's intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the Company's SEC filings and in the Press Release that was issued this morning.
Now I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley and good morning to everybody.
And thanks for joining the call today.
This morning I will cover the following four topics.
First significant developments in quarter; second a high-level summary of our first quarter results; third an update on our key initiatives for 2015; and fourth the strengthening of our management team.
Following my comments D.
Ashley Lee our CFO will provide detailed review of our first quarter financial results and provide an updated 2015 guidance.
We will then open the line for Q&amp;A.
There were three significant developments for the company in the first four months of 2015.
First the FDA spent two weeks in early March conducting a re-inspection of our facility and reviewed all 483 observations from the previous inspection conducted in March of 2014.
I am very pleased to report that we passed the FDA re-inspection with no 483 observations and that the FDA has lifted our Warning Letter confirming that all items in the warning letter were closed.
I am very proud of our team for their commitment to the continued enhancement of our quality systems.
As you all know this has been my top priority since I joined the company eight months ago.
And this positive result illustrates our underletting focus on producing the highest quality products for our patients.
The second positive development was the enrollment of our first patient in the PerClot IDE pivotal trial.
This is an important milestone for CryoLife in our efforts to expand litigation for our products.
We enrolled the first patient in the trial earlier this week at Indiana University.
We continue to work to bring other trail sites online in the coming months and we estimate that we will complete enrollment in the trial in the first half of 2016.
With a three month follow-up period we are on track to gain U.S.
FDA approval for PerClot in cardiac general and urological surgery in the second half of 2017.
As we reported in March we were enjoying from selling PerClot Topical in the U.S.
by the District Court's ruling on the preliminary injunction motion filed by C.R.
Baird Subsidiary Medafor.
As required by the court's ruling we immediately see selling PerClot Topical in the U.S.
and we have adjusted our 2015 guidance to reflect this development.
Ashley will provide more details regarding the adjusted 2015 guidance later in the call.
While we were disappointed with the court's ruling we continue to believe that we have a strong case and we remained focused on securing the best long-term outcome in this litigation for our shareholders.
To that end we have appealed the court's decision regarding injunction and the appeals process is expected to take most of the rest of 2015 to run its course.
In the meantime we expect that activity and the resulting legal spend on the broader patent infringement lawsuit will decrease significantly while the appeal is pending.
Turning to the quarter this morning we reported revenues of $33.8 million for the first quarter down 5% year-over-year.
There were three factors that contributed to the decline.
First the anticipated impact of decreased tissue availability resulting from our recent quality initiatives; second our decision to go direct in a major European country; and third the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar in a change in the timing of distributed orders.
Ashley will provide further details about the quarter during his remarks.
On the positive note TMR revenues were up 27% for the quarter HeRO revenues were up 15% on the quarter and PerClot was up 7%.
Additionally our launches for ProCol and PhotoFix are going well.
So we continue to generate revenues or we generated revenues close to $200 000 in each of those product lines in the first quarter.
During the quarter we continue to make progress on the key initiatives that I laid out during our last conference call with several opportunities for growth and value creation over the next few years.
The four key areas that we are focusing on are one to improve our quality systems and resolving FDA Warning Letter; two building momentum for our recent product launches ProCol and PhotoFix; three increasing our global product and distribution footprint; and four expanding indications for key products particularly with PerClot Surgical IDE clinical trial as well as the BioGlue indication expansion in Japan.
First I'll begin with an update on the quality systems.
As I mentioned earlier in my comments the Warning Letter is now closed and we will now be focusing on our efforts to improve the efficiency of tissue processing operation while at the same time sustaining the major quality enhancement that we have made.
We've already identified several key initiatives in the tissue processing operation that will increase tissue supply as we move through 2015.
We expect that these initiatives will be completed during Q2 and Q3 and fully implemented as we enter Q4.
We believe that we should be able to realize significant positive benefits from these initiatives in the second half of 2015 and are committed to delivering the full-year tissue guidance that we provided on our last call.
Second on the new product front.
The initial feedback has been excellent.
We launched ProCol in late 2014 and during the first quarter we achieved approximately $200 000 of revenue.
For those of you who may not be aware ProCol is a complementary product to the HeRO Graft and the treatment continuum for end-stage renal disease after a failure of a synthetic graft.
We believe that our ProCol product which is comprised of bovine mesenteric vein is -- were also processed using a proprietary method offers a significant advantage over synthetic graft failure.
ProCol is proven and effective and we expect continued surgeon adoption and sales growth in the coming quarters.
In January we launched the PhotoFix Bovine Pericardial Patch in the U.S.
and our team has already achieved key wins in the pediatric market and received favorable surgeon feedback.
We recorded approximately $200 000 of sales of PhotoFix during the first quarter.
Surgeon feedback during my site visits at the FDS meetings have been extremely positive as surgeons are excited about the availability of PhotoFix for their patients.
Our teams are working to gain approval for PhotoFix in Europe and we are in the process of evaluating a pathway to use PhotoFix in the U.S.
carotid endarterectomy market.
Once the full product line is available we believe PhotoFix has the potential to become a leading product in $30 million market for biological patches using cardiac and vascular surgical applications.
Our third key initiative is increasing our global product and distribution footprint.
And we revealed in our last conference call our plans to transition a major country in Europe from distribution to a direct sales model.
As Ashley will outline this had a near-term impact on our 2015 international revenue as our distributor sell down their inventory before we launched direct operations in Q4.
However once we are operating under the direct distribution model there we will benefit from the transition to direct sales pricing in margins with greater control over the sales strategy initiatives for the team and further product launch synergies.
At this time we have not committed to transition any additional markets but it is something we consider on a case-by-case basis and in the future we believe there is a strategic benefit to doing so.
The fourth initiative of our strategy is expanding indications for products in our portfolio.
Our biggest opportunity for midterm growth is the expansion of the U.S.
indication for PerClot into general surgery cardiac surgery and neurology surgery.
Now that we have initiated enrolment in the trial we believe that we are well-positioned to receive FDA approval in the second half of 2017.
Another indication expansion opportunity is BioGlue in Japan.
The current indication for BioGlue in Japan is only for aortic dissections.
With the new expansion we would broadly use BioGlue to all cardiac and large vessel procedures essentially doubling the market opportunity.
We are continuing to work through our distribution partner and with MHLW in Japan exploring an approval for the second half of the year.
The final topic I want to cover is the strengthening of the CryoLife leadership team.
I've made two new additions to the leadership team since the beginning of the year.
As we've announced earlier this month I added Jean Holloway as our new General Counsel.
With her extensive legal experience and talent in the medical device industry Jean is an important addition to our leadership team as we continue to execute on our growth strategies.
Jean was previously the General Counsel for C.R.
Bard a Fortune 500 Company.
I also worked with Jean at Medtronic where she was a Deputy General Counsel.
In addition yesterday we announced the addition of a Seasoned Industry Executive Bill Matthews as our Senior Vice President of Operations Quality and Regulatory.
In his previous consulting role Bill worked very closely with CryoLife management team and me during the preparation for FDA re-inspection and was instrumental in achieving a no 483 observation and the lifting of the Warning Letter.
Bill brings over 30 years of senior level experience in quality regulatory and operational leadership for Major Corporation.
Bill's knowledge and unparalleled expertise in operational management integration new technology startups and the FDA will contribute significantly to our company during his transformative time.
I'm very confident both Jean and Bill will add to their capabilities.
I will now turn the call over to Ashley for a detailed overview of first quarter results and the updated 2015 financial guidance.
Thanks Pat.
This morning we reported our results for the first quarter of 2015.
The following factors influenced our first quarter performance.
Total company revenues decreased 5% to $33.8 million for the first quarter driven by an 11% year-over-year decrease in tissue processing revenues and an 8% decrease in BioGlue sales.
As Pat previously mentioned the primary contributing factors were decreased tissue availability the conversion of a distributor to a direct sales model in a major European market foreign exchange which has resulted in both currency translation issues and affected orders from our OUS distributors to order in U.S.
dollars and a change in the timing of distributor orders.
Focusing on geography revenues our first quarter international revenues were $6.8 million down 18% compared to the first quarter of 2014.
International revenues accounted for 20% of our business in the first quarter.
The decrease in the international revenues was driven by the transition to a direct sales model in a large European market and the effects of foreign currency which has affected our distributor ordering patterns and volumes in several large OUS markets.
Our domestic revenues decreased 1% for the first quarter of 2015 compared to the prior year.
The decrease was primarily driven by decreased availability of tissues mostly offset by the recent launches of ProCol and PhotoFix and increases in TMR HeRO and BioGlue revenues.
Focusing on individual product lines worldwide BioGlue revenues in the first quarter decreased to 8% year-over-year slightly more than expected driven primarily by a decrease in international revenues partially offset by an increase in domestic revenues.
HeRO Graft revenues increased 15% to $1.9 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $1.6 million in the first quarter of 2014.
The increase was driven by increased adoption of the HeRO Graft in both domestic and international markets.
PerClot sales increased 7% for the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
The increase was due primarily to sales of PerClot Topical in the U.S.
prior to the injunction.
Revenues from our TMR product line increased 27% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to 2014 which resulted primarily from a 28% increase in hand piece volume.
Tissue processing revenues were down 11% for the quarter compared to the prior year which is down slightly more than we expected while our tissue processing gross margin also decreased year-over-year for the first quarter.
Tissue processing revenues were down due to processing changes resulting from our efforts to enhance our quality systems.
These changes have resulted in a temporary decrease in processing capacity and reduced availability of certain high demand tissues.
The net result is that our revenues decreased due to the lack of availability and our cost have increased which is reflected in our lower tissue processing gross margins in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014.
However as Pat mentioned previously we have several key initiatives underway that we believe will begin to significantly improve availability of tissues in the third quarter.
Gross margins for the quarter were 58.1% compared to 62.9% last year.
We previously disclosed that we expected overall gross margins to be affected by lower margins in our tissue processing business and the effects of foreign currency.
In addition to those factors gross margins in the first quarter were adversely affected by a write-off of approximately $500 000 of PerClot Topical inventory which amounts to about 1.5% of quarterly revenue.
SG&amp;A expenses were $19 million for the quarter up from $18.3 million last year.
The first quarter included $443 000 in legal expenses associated with our patent infringement lawsuit a charge of $457 000 to write-off certain PerClot Topical intangibles assets and $468 000 charge related to a severance.
We had a tax benefit in the first quarter of 2015 of $1.5 million and we currently estimate our 2015 effective tax rate to be approximately 85%.
With our bottom-line guidance projected to be near breakeven it is difficult to accurately predict our 2015 effective tax rate which can change significantly during the year based on what may seem to be minor changes in projected 2015 pre-tax income.
We will continue to update our 2015 effective income tax rate as facts and circumstances change during the year.
As of March 31 2015 we had $38.2 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
We continue to carry no debt and expect to continue to generate operating cash flow.
And now for our updated guidance for 2015.
We expect total revenues to be between $148.50 million and $150.50 million which is down slightly compared to our previous guidance.
This reflects the removal of approximately $1.75 million in PerClot Topical revenues and the estimated effects of the continued strengthening of the U.S.
dollar.
We continue to expect revenues from our higher margin product segment to increase in the mid-single-digits on a percentage basis for the full-year of 2015 and we expect our tissue processing revenues to grow low-single-digits on a percentage basis for the full-year of 2015 as compared to 2014.
We still expect our gross margins in 2015 to be around 60% for the full-year.
We expect research and development expenses to be between $13 million and $14 million in 2015.
Earnings for the full-year of 2015 are expected to be near breakeven up from our previous guidance.
This guidance includes a charge of approximately $1.2 million in the second quarter for the recent retirement of our Executive Chairman.
Our guidance does not include the impact of any ongoing or future business development activities.
That concludes my comments and I'll turn it back over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley.
Now we open up the call for questions.
Operator? Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
A small question.
I understand it's pretty much standard operating procedure when you go from a distributor to direct that there's this lag period where they burn off inventory.
When -- did you say when you expect to be direct? Is that a third-quarter event or how long do we have this lag? Ash I don't know if we communicated when we expected its going to affect.
I think we have previously.
We're looking at October 1 right now to go direct in that major market.
Got it thanks.
And then Pat kind of a convoluted question; I apologize ahead of time.
But I was going to ask you about management but you went through that and obviously the FDA clearing the Warning Letter is good.
Can you tie in may be the hiring of Bill and I think you also got a regulatory guy.
I don't know if it was a promotion or an outside guy.
And talk about the ongoing quality system improvements that you've got going at CryoLife.
Yes.
Well it's not that convoluted because your question is a good one.
Bill Matthews who we just announced yesterday was our -- is going to be our new Head of Operations Quality and Regulatory.
He was brought in even before I joined the company back in the June timeframe.
And he has been a senior partner in a firm that kind of solely focuses on companies that are in a situation of a Warning Letter.
So he comes in brings a team of X -- typically X FDA employees and then we basically worked together over the last seven or eight months since I've been here going through every subsystem of the quality system.
And in that experience of working with Bill it was very clear to me that he is an expert in the field of quality.
If you look at his kind of background he has worked for major Fortune 500 companies in the areas of quality and regulatory as well as operations.
So I think we -- if you ask somebody a year ago the company got a 18 item 483 on the re-inspection for the Warning Letter.
And to go one year later and have no 483 observations at all is a major accomplishment.
And the whole team at CryoLife accomplished that and Bill was instrumental in that.
And I felt bringing him in would help us to one build upon what we already have.
But our quality systems are in very good shape and we're going to continue improving them.
And as you heard Ashley say we're now going to start working on getting the efficiency in the tissue processing area those have been a little bit bogged down since we've been still focused on the quality.
And that's very doable that we can actually improve efficiency and maintain and sustain the quality.
Got it.
And then thanks for that.
And then as long as you brought up tissue and initiatives you are improving the quality.
That was kind of a step back on availability for the customer and so you can now go forward.
But you mentioned some key initiatives that are planning.
In the past you have talked about may be increasing the yield by identifying the material that goes into the system as being approvable or not.
I'm not using the right word but I'm just curious -- are those initiatives that you thought originally as far as improving yield going forward? We look at -- we're actually looking at a number really across the whole continuum of kind of the supply chain for tissue processing.
I mean the first thing is we -- may be I surprised you but we haven't brought in a new organ procurement group in five or six years.
And the reason for that is the inefficiency in the tissue processing line.
We have now as I said once we got the quality established we're now shifting gears to focus on productivity and efficiency and there is a number of initiatives in getting the tissue processing lab more efficient.
That allows us to actually bring in more procurement from turning on new procurement organizations.
We're probably going to see a 30-plus-percent improvement in efficiency and productivity in the tissue processing lab.
The point you mentioned was really on the back-end after you process the tissue you trying to use some sophisticated statistical analysis to predict which tissues are going to be most likely to yield a higher outcome than not and that work is going on as we speak.
So there is initiatives going on at bringing in more procurement organizations there are issues going on improving the efficiency of the processing lab and there's initiatives going on on the back-end of the QA quality inspection to make sure that you yield as much tissues you possibly can.
And in totality when you combine all that together we feel pretty good that this will improve our situation going forward while at the same time maintaining or even improving the quality.
Got it.
Thanks.
That's it for me.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Could you talk about the PerClot trial and the timing a little bit? So you started enrolling; I guess the first center will pop up on clinical trials at some point.
But you said that you expect to be fully enrolled by first half of 2016.
Why do you anticipate it's going to take a full-year to enroll that out over 15 centers? Yes.
It's just -- I mean to me it's one of those things that -- I mean I've had a lot of experience with clinical trials and I always wonder why it takes so long.
But there is pretty significant process from going through the hospitals IRB system getting the contracts reviewed training the center screening the patients getting the patients in the queue.
I mean this is a pretty involved process.
So we've got one center obviously in the Indiana University is live they've gone through all the process and they're now starting to enroll and we're already -- patients are already lining up there.
We've got three centers that are kind of through the IRB process and are getting ready to enroll.
We've got another I think six that are in the process of moving through that cycle.
So they're kind of phased in over time.
Once you get all your centers up is when you obviously your enrollment picks up pretty significantly.
The good news is there is lots of procedures in each of these areas.
So that's not going to be a limiting factor.
The other piece that's good is there is only a three month follow-up.
So we don't have to wait a year like a lot of trials for the result.
So we're just going to be very focused on the getting centers through the process from IRB to contract approval to train to enrolling and the more we get those up and running the faster the trial will enroll.
So I think that's a pretty -- if you look at a clinical trial of this size with this number of patients that's a pretty aggressive timeline I think it's doable but it's not -- this is not kind of a sandbag timeline.
Got it okay.
As far as the country that you are transitioning from a distributor to direct can you give us a sense of the size of the market of your revenue that the country has played over the past couple of years? Yes.
So I would say that as a distributor this is a country that's probably been in the $3 million dollar range and when we go direct at the end user level that will go up by 70%.
So that will be more like a $5.50 million to $6 million country.
So as was asked earlier I mean the challenge when you do this is there is only a couple ways to address with the current existing inventory.
We obviously don't want the distributor dump inventory on the market.
So we made a decision to work with that distributor to kind of burn the inventory down and have a reasonable transition.
The good news there is we have already -- we are in the final stages of signing that agreement and also we basically got the entire sales team that was our distributor sales team is going to be -- is committed to be working with us.
So the transition should be almost like flipping a switch and we're going to move to get that.
As Ashley said October 1 is the date and we're hopefully -- we will be able to do that a little bit sooner if possible.
Got it okay.
Now a couple clarifications.
Ashley you were talking about $1.5 million tax benefit and then you said something about 85%.
That's correct Jeff.
And again we're currently projecting to be near breakeven on the bottom-line in 2015 and on -- at breakeven or very low levels of income considering permanent items and tax credit and so forth your effective tax rate can vary widely so.
Our best estimate at this point is 85% it's likely to change as circumstances change throughout the year.
And we'll just do our best to keep you updated on a quarterly basis at -- where we expect to be for the full-year.
Okay.
And as far as next quarter you talked about $1.2 million in severance.
That will come out of G&amp;A correct? SG&amp;A? That's correct.
Okay.
And then lastly if you could provide any commentary either of you on the M&amp;A front or any follow-on product developments or any new developments that are ancillary to your current portfolio.
Yes.
I think the one -- there is a couple things I would say.
One this -- I had mentioned this in my remarks.
I think this PhotoFix product is -- this is a bovine pericardial product we -- was a partnership that the team had struck before I got here but I think that has proven to be a very very unique product.
We have plans.
All we have now is one kind of one size in the U.S.
and its lot of very high interest in the pediatric world.
We are looking at bringing that as a Company -- and my comment and my remarks.
We're looking at getting that product in the Europe with a CE mark.
We're looking at getting larger sheets and we're also looking at the entry into the carotid endarterectomy market.
And I think the combination of those is going to be a nice -- that's going to be nice offering for us.
And those things are in our plans and I commented that on the last call.
On the M&amp;A front I mean we're obviously actively looking at things and we looked at a lot of things and we've got a pretty high bar as far as what we want to see when we look at an acquisition.
Some of the screens that we are using is we want a very high-end physician preference product.
I don't want to buy commodity type products.
So something that a physician actually cares about high margin typically higher margin that we have higher growth that we have and something that we think has got a future either it's a new market with a lot of growth or it's a product that has a competitive differentiating feature to allow share capture in a bigger market.
So if you apply that screen that's a pretty tall order.
And we've been looking at a lot of things.
And yes good news is there is lot of things out there but that's about as far as I can go with as what were the types of things we're going to be looking at.
And as soon as we -- if we have something down the road we will obviously let people know when we get to that point.
Okay.
Super.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Thank you.
It appears we have no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to management.
Yes well listen thanks for joining the Q1 call.
Obviously we are very pleased with the clearance of the Warning Letter we are very pleased with the first moment in our PerClot trial we are pleased with some of the new management additions.
We obviously got some work to do on the tissue front which we're committing to hit the year-end numbers.
And we're working hard to make sure we deliver the numbers that we put out there.
We've adjusted the guidance for the injection and we're going to appeal that.
And we've also had a little bit of headwinds on FX which should be news to anybody.
So on balance we put our new guidance out there.
We are committed to delivering it and look forward to the next call and updating you on our progress.
Thanks again for joining.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Greetings and welcome to CryoLife Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to CryoLife management team.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning.
This is Ashley Lee.
Before we begin I'd like to make the following statements to comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the Company's or management's intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the Company's SEC filings and in the Press Release that was issued this morning.
Now I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley and good morning.
Thanks everyone for joining the call today.
This morning I'll cover the following two topics.
First the high level summary of our second quarter results and second an update on our growth factors that we've been communicating for the past year.
Following my comments Ashley Lee our CFO will provide a detailed review of our second quarter 2015 financial results and our updated 2015 guidance.
We'll then open the lines for Q&amp;A.
This morning we reported total revenues of $35.5 million for the second quarter a 2% increase year-over-year.
We are pleased with the improvement in tissue processing revenues which were up 9%.
Product revenues were down 2% and reflect mix results for the quarter.
On the one hand we continue to see very strong performance in our recently launched products of ProCol PhotoFix.
While on the other hand we were disappointed with the lower growth rate for HeRo and the negative impact of foreign currency in markets like Europe and Brazil.
Finally as we have been communicating all year we had planned on revenue reductions of BioGlue in France as our distributors sell down our inventory in preparation for us going direct on October 1st.
Ashley will provide further details about the quarter during his remarks.
We also continue to make good progress on the four growth factors that we've been communicating for the past year.
Number one; building momentum for our new products ProCol PhotoFix.
Number two; increasing our global distribution footprint by going direct in France on October 1st.
Number three; expanding indications for our key products which include the enrollment of the PerClot surgical IDE clinical trial in US as well as BioGlue in Japan.
And number four; assessing business development opportunities.
In addition we've added one growth factor to the lift number five; improving efficiency and result of our tissue processing operation.
I am confident that these five growth factors will enhance our ability to drive growth and build value over the next few years.
I'll now provide more color on the five growth factors in the orders that I listed them.
First I will discuss the momentum for our new products.
The customers' feedback on PhotoFix continues to be excellent and we've achieved $343 000 of revenue in the second quarter.
We are also working on rounding out the PhotoFix product portfolio with new sizes as well as working on getting a CE mark which provide access to the European market.
We continue to believe that PhotoFix has a potential to become a leading product in a $30 million plus market for biological patches using cardiac surgery.
As ProCol we achieved $333 000 in revenue during the second quarter and expect to expand surgeon adoption and sales growth in the coming quarters.
Our second growth factor is focused on expanding our global distribution footprint.
Transitioning to a direct sales model in select international markets is a key strategic initiative for CryoLife because it enhances our revenue and gross margin mix.
It also allows us to implement a more focused sales and marketing strategy and also provides a platform for future new product introductions.
We've recently announced plans to transition to a direct sales model in France effective October 1st.
It is part of this transition certain members of French distributors' sales team will become members of CryoLife.
These reps are currently responsible for executing sales of CryoLife's products in France and have an established footprint and strong relationships with their surgeon customers.
These transitions provide a direct channel and distribution for our growing product portfolio in an important European market.
And we expect to see positive impact to revenue and gross margin in 2016.
We are working very closely with our distributors to ensure a smooth transition as we prepare for October 1st.
Our third growth factor is expanding indications on key products.
I'll begin with an update on the PerClot IDE pivotal trial.
Today we've enrolled four patients in a trial as it has been taking us longer than anticipated to bring sites through the IRB and contracting process.
We currently only have 4 out of 15 sites fully qualified for enrollment.
We are working diligently to bring additional trial sites to the enrollment phase as soon as possible.
And we are targeting have all 15 sites up and running by the 1st of January 2016.
Once we get all 15 centers qualified for enrollment we believe that we remain on track to complete enrollment and trial in the second half of 2016 with a three months follow up period we could potentially gain US FDA approval for cardiac general and urological surgery for PerClot in 2018.
In addition earlier this month we received Japanese regulatory approval of an expanding indication for BioGlue.
Doubling the market opportunity in Japan to over $10 million.
This essentially allows us to leverage our existing surgeon customer relationships to broadly use a BioGlue in all aortic cardiac and large vessel procedures.
We are very proud of the commercial success of BioGlue that our Japanese distributors have achieved to date.
And we will continue to work together to train their sales team on the expanded indication.
We are on track for distributor to begin selling BioGlue for the expanded indication in the third quarter.
The fourth quarter factor is our focus on growing the company through business development transactions.
While I will not make specific comments in this area we continue to assess opportunities and can leverage our global footprint in cardiac and vascular surgery.
As you hear in Ashley's portion of the call we did have significant spending in this area in the quarter.
So I wanted to remind everyone that we've been very open that this is a key growth factor for our strategy.
Our fifth and newest growth factor is our focus on improving the efficiency and result of our tissue processing.
Following the resolution of the FDA warning letter quarter we put in place several important initiatives to enhance the tissue processing operation and increase tissue supplies we move through 2015.
We began to see those efforts payoff in the second quarter.
As our revenues increased sequentially from $14.4 million to $15.6 million.
We continue to make significant progress on these initiatives and believe that our tissue processing revenues will meaningfully increase in the second half of the year as compared to the first half of this year.
Overall we continue to make great positive stride in a second quarter and while we still have lot of work to do we believe we have significantly improved our position with the upcoming transition to a direct sales in France expanded BioGlue indications in Japan.
And other new product launches provided another growth factor and we are working hard to improve yields on our tissue business and drive growth for other medical device products.
Together we expect that this improved top line performance -- will improve top line performance in late 2015 and into 2016.
I'll now turn the call over to Ashley for detailed review of our second quarter results and updated 2015 financial guidance.
Ashley? Thanks Pat.
This morning we reported our results for the second quarter of 2015.
The following factors influenced our second quarter performance.
Compared to the prior year total company revenues increased 2% to $35.5 million for the second quarter driven by 9% year-over-year increase in tissue processing revenues driven primarily by price increases.
Product revenues decreased 2% in the quarter primarily as a result of the conversion to a direct sales model in France and FX which is resulted in both the currency translation issues and effective orders from our a US distributors who order in US dollar.
On the bottom line we reported the loss of $0.02 however excluding $1.4 million in severance related charges $857 000 in business development expenses and an $891 000 gain on the sale of investment we reported non-GAAP EPS of $0.03 per share.
Focusing on geographic revenues.
Our domestic revenues increased 5% for the second quarter of 2015 compared to the prior year period.
This increase was driven primarily by price increases for tissue processing and the recent launches of ProCol PhotoFix.
Our second quarter international revenues were $7.7 million down 7% compared to the second quarter of 2014.
International revenues accounted for 22% of our business in the second quarter.
The decrease in international revenues was driven by lack of revenues from our French distributor as we transition to a direct distribution model in France and the effects of foreign currency which has affected our distributor ordering patterns and volumes in several large o-US markets including Russia and Brazil.
Focusing on individual product lines.
Tissue processing revenues increased 9% for the quarter compared to the prior year primarily due to price increases.
As Pat mentioned we are also seeing positive effects of the processing improvement initiatives that we implemented earlier this year.
Our tissue processing yield increased dramatically and we expect that to have a positive effect on the top line in the second half of this year and on gross margins beginning late this year and into 2016.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues in the second quarter decreased 6% year-over-year slightly more than expected driven primarily by decrease in international revenues.
HeRO Graft revenues increased 2% to $1.7 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of 2014.
The increase was driven by increased adoption of the HeRO Graft in international markets.
PerClot sales decreased 9% for the second quarter of 2015 compared to the second quarter of 2014.
The decrease was due primarily to the effects in competition from other powdered hemostats in the European market.
Revenues from our TMR product line decreased 7% in the second quarter of 2015 compared to 2014 which resulted primarily from a 6% decrease in handpiece volume.
Gross margins for the second quarter was 60.7% up from 58.1% in the first quarter.
Gross margins were pretty much in line with their expectations.
As I stated earlier we expect tissue processing gross margin should begin to improve in the fourth quarter and we expect meaningful improvement in 2016.
SG&amp;A expenses were $19.3 million for the second quarter from $18 million last year.
The second quarter included $1.4 million in severance related benefits and $857 000 in business development expenses.
As Pat mentioned we continue to seek out evaluate and pursue business development opportunities that would align with our business strategies and priorities and enhance our prospects for future growth.
With our bottom line guidance projected to be near breakeven it is difficult to accurately predict our 2015 effective tax rate which can change significantly during the year based on minor changes and projected 2015 income and anticipated tax benefits in the second half of the year.
We will continue to update our 2015 effective income tax rate as facts and circumstances change during the year.
As of June 30 2015 we had $40.9 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
We continue to carry no debt and expect to continue to generate operating cash flow.
And now for our updated guidance for 2015.
We are reiterating our previously issued financial guidance with the exception of our guidance for product revenues which we now expect to grow in low single digits on a percentage basis versus our previous guidance of mid single digits on a percentage basis.
That concludes my comments.
And I'll turn it back over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley.
We will now open the lines for questions.
Rob? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeff Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi Pat and Ashley good morning.
How are you? So few questions.
You said the uptick in the tissue business was primarily as a result of pricing.
Could you talk about the pricing and specific to what's pricing affected in the percentage of that or could you also talk about the number of units that were sold? Was that in line with expectations an increase or decrease from Q1? Thanks.
If you look at a year-over-year basis our cardiac units were flat and our vascular units were actually up about 1% on sequential basis we saw volumes increase for both cardiac and vascular tissues.
On a year-over-year basis the non percent increase in revenues was almost exclusively driven by price increases.
Now with that being said as Pat mentioned and I alluded to in my comments we are seeing some meaningful improvements in both our processing yields and volumes following the work that we did to fix the issues with the FDA late last year and early this year.
And we expect going into the third quarter and especially in the fourth quarter that our volumes should increase significantly.
I'll add one other thing too over the last couple of years we've had a mid year price increases for tissues in each of the last two to three years that was -- so those were affected on July 1st and you are seeing the impact of some of those price increases on our business.
Okay.
But the non percent you referenced was price increases prior to a mid year price increase? That's correct.
Okay.
And when was that from? Price increase from last year's 9%? Yes pretty much.
Okay.
So you expect another beginning July 1st.
Yes.
And they might not be as significant as we've had in the last two to three years but we will be having a small price increase in the middle part of this year too.
Okay.
Could you talk a little bit about the total sales force now that you have out there in the marketplace and the composition of it in net delta over the past couple quarters please.
Yes.
We got two different channels in the US.
We got a cardiac -- a channel that focuses on cardiac surgery and got a channel that focuses on vascular surgery.
So the vascular surgery channel is with reps and managers as roughly at number of -- roughly 30 and the cardiac sales force is at roughly 20 in that in typical gyration we got a pretty stable field organization but you do have turnover from time to time.
So I'd say it has been kind of on par with what we've seen historically.
Okay.
And couple more for me.
Could you comment thus far on what are you seeing in Q3? I know that historically you have a bit of seasonality effect for the third quarter and also could you talk about any anticipated headwinds going forward as far as currencies.
And if there is any hedge and program and plan or what are you seen at least thus far? Maybe the hedging front we don't hedge as of a way and trying to predict currencies as we found out at the beginning of this year was fairly difficult to do.
That has been a big challenge for us particularly in what we've seen in the Euro as well as what we saw in Brazil.
That's been -- that the Brazil the performance of the Real and the economy down there.
That's a pretty good side of business for us in the international markets and we've kind of seen that dry up and that's been a big challenge frequently on the international vague number.
I don't know if Ashley do you want to talk about this seasonality I mean it is pretty early into the quarter.
Yes.
I mean it is relatively early.
I think typically in the past you've seen our cardiac business kind of spike a little bit in the third quarter just due to the number of pediatric surgeries that occur.
What I'll say right now in regards to July and again we are one month into the quarter but so far we seemed to be tracking the plan.
Our next question comes from Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi this is actually Kyle on for Tom.
So I'll start with the ProCol and the reason its reduction as you talked about in the prepared remarks the strategy will be to increase surgeon adoption to drive growth and to do this driving share from the competing product will be particularly important.
I know it is early but what have your interactions been like with the practitioners if you -- as you rolled out the product and have the clinical data supporting higher patency rates over the competing product played a significant role and the usage by the docs.
Yes.
I mean it is -- I think it is an interesting product and that it's pretty narrow segment in this kind of biological grafts for dialysis but it is a very tough environment.
In fact we think there is a lots of future applications in dialysis where it actually could potentially compete head to head in certain patient population versus for example [indiscernible].
I think it is too early to tell I mean we just launched this product at the beginning of the year.
So if patients were inferred on January 1st they are only six months into their kind of time with the graft so try to figure out with their one year PAPC [ph] rates are I think it is pretty difficult.
I think I mean it could safe to say that we've -- there have been a number of different clinical papers published on that technology and I think we are seeing similar performance in the marketplace.
And I think this is -- I think one of the thing is if you look at the dialysis marketplace these patients are in really significantly need and they are really looking for products that can be more durable and this graft has some very unique characteristics that make it I think a very interesting options for physicians as we see get more and more data.
So I think to date it has been pretty good.
I think a lot of these -- a lot of physicians will trial the product and see how it works in their patients and so probably seeing good feedback.
Great thanks.
And then looking at R&amp;D for the quarter as you mentioned enrollment was maybe little bit slower were you expecting a little bit more R&amp;D given the IDE ramp.
I know you reiterated R&amp;D guidance for the year but could you comment Ashley maybe a bit more Q3 and Q4 cadence and sort of how we should think about that.
Yes.
I mean if you look at the -- where we are currently stand with having sites fully qualified for enrollment I think that would kind of indicate that the spend in 4Q we are expecting to be little more than 3Q.
And then for the full year we guided to between $13 million and $14 million and so that's our current guidance.
But again 4Q is probably maybe little heavier than 3Q.
Okay thanks.
And then lastly what was the actual top line impact for FX for the quarter? I think that it's probably close to around $300 000 it is roughly around 1% ballpark.
I won't confirm that and if it is different I will switch in -- I think it is rough $400 000 About $400 000 Our next question is from Joe Munda from First Analysis.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Can you hear me okay? Thanks for taking the question.
Real quick just talked about the trial for 15 locations seems to be moving slower than you had originally anticipated.
Can you give some color there as far as perhaps some of the reasons there as why is this taking little bit longer just a little bit more granularity will be great.
Yes I know and I tried to address it up front and I mean just give you some high level the process to get a site up and running in 2015 it's become much more difficult for any IDE type clinical trial.
So there is the whole IRB process where you have to go through the Internal Review Board of the hospital to get the kind of the regulatory approval on the hospital side.
And once that's done then you have to get the contract approved and that's goes into all the different stipulations on who is responsible for what and also kind of legal type topics like indemnification different types of things so I mean some institutions have become very difficult to order and this is through my experience over the last 15 years.
I had previously I have seen hospital take a year to get their contract negotiated.
Now we try to avoid places like that.
But I think the fact of the matter is just the time to get the IRB up the time to get the contract signed and then you got to train the center so there is a lot of work and predicting that is always -- it is always difficult.
I mean we feel pretty good that the kind of things are moving along through the phase and as we see now we've got 4 out of 15 centers up.
The remaining centers are in the -- either the IRB contracting or training phase.
And we feel that by the end of this year we should have all 15 centers up and running.
And once you have that this trial is actually should be fairly easy to enroll.
It is only three months follow up and we are doing a module or PMA so I think there are other things at the backend of this that give us some confidence that 2018 day is very realistic.
But as each quarter goes by we will give you guys update on how we are progressing on the getting these centers up and running.
Okay and thank you.
I appreciate it.
I mean the timeline you provided us is that basically a worse case scenario or could it be expedited in any way I mean you just said you provided us an update but is there -- I think I actually it would be -- it is hard to say we have been conservative when we are missing our enrollment.
But at the same time I mean if you look at -- if we have all the sites up and ready to go by January 1st and we can enroll this trial and just make it say in 2016 there is a three months follow up in a module PMA is a six months the final approval be a six months window assuming everything solid.
They get you still well within 2018 even if you kind of stretch out your enrollment phase.
So I think that -- I think there is a possibility we could get into 2017 we are just trying to be conservative on the dates we are showing out there.
Okay.
And then my other question regards to what's going on with Medafor back and forth between you guys any updates there as far as resolution or we still -- is it still like a wait and see type a situation? Yes.
I mean I think at this point in time I mean the more -- it is kind of ironic situation like the longer the trial takes to enroll the less exposure we have on the length of their patent.
Their patent expires and I have mentioned this previously their patent expires in February of 2019.
So let's to say we say early 2018 approval you got a one year window when you are still -- you are in junction still in effect.
So again to some degree this kind of legal overhang in the trial enrollment kind of go hand-in-hand and I don't want to drag the trial out but at the same time if bar going to be unreasonable about trying to settle something then we'll this take longer enroll to trial and will launch when their patent expires.
So I think there is a potentially way we could get resolution.
I mean we still have the legal case open.
And we will provide updates on that.
There is really nothing new there.
The case is still in effect and we are going to look at our options and if we feel like we have one then we will pursue it.
And but again I think for the investors on a phone the patent expires February 2019 we are saying that based on the time that we just talked about on the trial we could potentially have approval by February of 2018 that's 12 months difference.
And whether we push the cash forward or try to get some financial resolution with bar we will see as time goes by.
Okay.
As far as the tissue business is concerned talked about some efficiencies there it was nice to see this quarter obviously nice reversal here after four three quarters obviously the FDA playing its part there but I mean can you give us some more -- you talked about improving yields some of the stuff that you put in place but can you give us some examples some concrete examples of why we are seeing improvements in that business.
Was there pent-up order demand as well because of the FDA? Anything would be -- I know you said that the price increase is but you are expecting further volume increases at the end of the year to 2016 so I mean any color there would be helpful.
Yes.
No and so I think Ashley mentioned this in his and I mentioned as well in my comments.
In my first six-seven months here we really did like data the student body writes on quality and getting the FDA warning letter result.
And through that time we actually had significant backorders on tissue both for SG pulmonary and aortic valves.
But frankly it really -- we really couldn't focus on that because our number one priority here and still is today is quality.
And once we got that result the FDA warning letter got lifted in March we literally then did -- we feel like we got a underpinning here of quality and then we just student body write on tissue so we've been meeting with our top leaders kind of on a biweekly basis and have a number of key initiatives going on tissue.
And we've been able to through -- a probably dozen different initiatives including increasing our procurement increasing our hiring in the lab beefing up the training coming up with different programs to improve our yield and efficiencies.
Again as a dozen different projects that are underway and we've been able to kind of forecast out as Ashley mentioned meaningful increases to come on tissue volumes as well as improvements in costs and that what we said at the end of last quarter.
So it is going to take us some time and you got to remember that the day we put tissue in the freezer it takes a quarter for it to come out.
So all the initiatives we've been working on starting in March haven't event hit the freezers yet or haven't hit the commercial market yet.
And today we still -- I just looked at the numbers yesterday we still probably have $7 million and $8 million of tissue on back order primarily in the pediatric pulmonary valve adult aortic valves and SG.
And we expect to be out of that good chunk of those back orders as we go into 2016.
So we think the picture is going to get much better for tissue on the top line and on the bottom line as we move through the rest of 2015 and go into 2016.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
Thanks Pat.
Ashley some housekeeping items here.
Can you just rundown operating cash flow CapEx and depreciation and amortization for the quarter? Yes.
Operating cash flow was a little over $5 million for the quarter.
Depreciation amortization was probably close to around $2 million and then CapEx was right at about $2 million give or take for the quarter.
Then Ashley I guess my final question business development expense is $857 000 based on Pat's comments that you are continuing to look at opportunities is that an expense we could expect or is that expense we can model out going forward and then coming quarters or was this quarter just a one timer any color there that would be great.
Yes.
Only thing that when Joe I mean this is one that I mean there is obviously a sensitive area because we clearly aren't getting into specifics around what it was and obviously is a tough position for us because there is nothing really to announce here and but we've been very active in every financial conference -- that I have been too over the last nine months we've talked about our four growth factors.
We talked about our new products we talked about expanding globally we talked about expanding indications and we talked about expanding the company through M&amp;A.
And this is the first time you've seen it show up in the P&amp;L and it is pretty sizable chunk.
But I would not say here and tell you that you should model out of $857 000 for the next four quarters.
And it is hard to predict what those are going to be because frankly we are always looking at different opportunities and so until we can say more on it I have a hard time giving you guides on how to model it.
I don't know if you want to add anything Ashley.
No.
That the spent on evaluating the opportunities just depends on what the opportunities are.
So it is very difficult amount to let out Okay.
And severance expense I mean is that were off next quarter or we expecting another million -- $1.4 million towards -- No.
That was an item that was specific to the second quarter.
There are no further questions.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Yes.
Look I want to thank everybody for joining us.
And as I mentioned we have some -- we've got some work to do on the tissue side.
I think the tissue; I am actually very pleased that tissue is going to be improving over the rest of 2015 and into 2016.
And I think it is a very positive sign and I will be pleased to share those numbers with you as those come out.
We had some good news in the quarter.
The fact that we got the BioGlue indication in Japan is a significant upside doubling that market opportunity in one of the highest priced highest margin markets in the world.
And we are getting ready launch that in the third quarter.
We also have been kind of taken our loans through the first couple of quarters and we will do the same in Q3 on going direct in France.
And we are up front about that not necessarily the country but we are doing it now you know the country.
But we have been not selling anything in France for the first two quarters.
And starting October 1st we are going to start selling BioGlue end user prices end user margin with the same direct team that was doing it under our distributors.
So that's a nice positive upside.
So I feel good about the -- the tissue business is going to look better.
I think our BioGlue franchise will look stronger with what we are doing in Japan what we are doing in France.
We've a great product momentum on the ProCol and PhotoFix.
And we continue to believe that will go strong.
We got some work to do on the trial and we've been very open about that.
We've also got some work to do on HeRO I am not real happy about the growth rate in HeRO at this point.
But we are working to get that back in line.
So as we go -- as we exit 2015 and going to 2016 I think we are going to start seeing an improving top line and improving bottom line.
We are always going to keep working and every quarter tries to get better.
So thank you guys all for your interest and attention to CryoLife.
And have a great day.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may disconnect your line at this time.
Greetings and welcome to the CryoLife Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Financial Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to CryoLife management.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Good morning.
This is Ashley Lee.
Before we begin I'd like to make the following statements to comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risk and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the Company's or management's intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future.
Additional information concerning risk and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the Company's SEC filings and in the press release that was issued this morning.
Now I'll turn it over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley and good morning.
Thanks everyone for joining the call today.
I am pleased to report that we had a very productive quarter.
Today I will detail considerable progress we have made in advancing the future growth prospects for our business that were not readily visible in our reported numbers for the quarter but which we believe will become more evident in the coming quarters.
I will provide you with some highlights from our third quarter results and update you on the progress of our growth drivers that we’ve been communicating for the past year.
Following my initial comments Ashley Lee our CFO will provide a detailed review of our third quarter 2015 financial results and our updated 2015 guidance.
I will conclude with an outline of why we believe the business is setting up for a solid 2016 performance and we will then open the line for questions.
This morning we reported total revenues of $36.7 million for the third quarter a 1% decrease year-over-year.
We had our second consecutive quarter of growth in tissue processing revenues which were up 1% year-over-year and 8% sequentially.
Product revenues were down 3% reflecting the transition to a direct sales force in France the negative impact of foreign currency in certain markets such as Europe and Brazil and weaker performance from HeRo than we expected.
These items were partially offset by the continued growth of ProCol and PhotoFix.
During the quarter we made meaningful progress on the growth drivers that we’ve been communicating over the past year.
This is important as that they are in central components that will drive our future growth.
As a reminder we seek to one maximize the opportunity of our new products in ProCol and PhotoFix; two further increase our global distribution footprint as we did by going direct in France in October 1; three expand indications of our key products which include the enrollment of the PerClot Surgical IDE clinical trial in the US and approval for Japan’s new expanded indication for BioGlue; four to enhance our growth profile through business development opportunities; five further improve our efficiency and results of the tissue processing operation; and six to strengthen our leadership team.
We believe when we execute on these growth drivers we will transform CryoLife into a higher growth and more profitable company.
In the quarter we made considerable progress towards delivering on these objectives and I’ll take a few minutes to update you on each.
First we continue to enhance CryoLife’s executive leadership team with the appointment of John Davis as Senior Vice President Global Sales and Marketing in early September.
I had the privilege of working directly with John at Medtronic and can attest to his exceptional track record of driving revenue growth developing high-performance sales teams and building strong customer relationships.
Second our new product launches are off to a strong start.
Customer feedback on PhotoFix continues to be excellent and sales are tracking towards our expectations.
We achieved 444 000 of PhotoFix revenue in the third quarter a 29% sequential increase.
We are also working on rounding out the PhotoFix product line with new sizes as well as working on obtaining a CE mark for PhotoFix which will wed access to the European market.
We continue to believe that PhotoFix has the potential of becoming a leading product in the $30 million plus market for biological patches using cardiac surgery.
As to ProCol we achieved $371 000 in revenue during the quarter and 11% sequential increase.
We continue efforts to maximize the opportunity for ProCol in the coming quarters.
Our effort to expand our global distribution footprint is also going well.
The transition into a direct sales model inflect international markets is a key strategic initiative for CryoLife because it enhances our revenue and gross margin mix.
It also allows us to implement a more focused sales and marketing strategy and provide a platform for future new product introductions.
Earlier this year we announced plans to transition to a direct sales model in France which became effective on October 1.
As part of this transition four members of our former French distributor sales team joined CryoLife giving us an established footprint with strong existing customer relationship.
This team’s responsibility is unchanged and they have continued their role of executing sales of CryoLife’s products in France.
In addition we also hired an experienced leader from a major medical device company that will service the country manager for France.
I am pleased to report the transition has gone well and our revenue is tracking to our expectations.
Looking forward we plan to add another territory manager to the team further enhancing our direct channel and ability to sell our growing product portfolio in this important European market.
Accordingly we expect to see positive impact to revenue and gross margin beginning this quarter and into 2016.
Another key strategy is expanding indications on select products.
I will begin with an update on PerClot pivotal trial.
To-date enrollment has been fore than expected as it continues to take longer than anticipated to bring sites to the IRB and contracting process.
We currently have only 5 of our 15 sites fully qualified for enrollment.
We are working diligently increase the pace of enrollment and are submitting a protocol amendment to the FDA that we believe could be helpful at enrollment.
Among other things it would allow us to increase the number of trial sites from 15 to 25 which should help bring additional trial sites to the enrollment phase as soon as possible.
For now we are targeting to have 15 sites up and running by January 1 2016.
Once we get all of our centers qualified for enrollment we believe that the trial enrollment will be completed in 2016.
With the three month follow-up period we could potentially gain USFDA approval for cardiac general and neurological surgery for PerClot in 2018.
Also on the new indication front we recently received regulatory approval for an expanded indication for BioGlue in Japan.
We’ve been working closely with our Japanese distribution partner to prepare for the launch which doubles the BioGlue market opportunity in Japan to over $10 million.
During the quarter we collaborated to train their sales team on the expanded indications which allows BioGlue to be used in all aortic cardiac and large vessel procedures.
The launch began on August 1 and in September our partners secured reimbursement coverage which further supports their sales efforts.
Another future growth driver is our focus on growing the company through business development transactions.
We see this as a highly important area of focus.
Our sales platform is highly experienced and poised to drive growth of additional products.
We seek products that leverage our well-established customer relationships in cardiac and vascular surgery.
We have identified several interesting opportunities that said we have a disciplined process and criteria for any investment.
We will wait to find the right opportunity if necessary.
Moving on one of the first areas I addressed when I came to the company was to improve the efficiency and results of our tissue processing operations.
I am pleased to report that we have made great strides in this area.
Following the resolution of the FDA warning letter in the first quarter we’ve put in place several important initiatives to enhance our tissue processing operations and increased tissue supplies as we have moved through 2015.
These efforts began to pay-off in the second quarter and have continued to pay-off in the third quarter.
Tissue processing revenues have increased sequentially from $14.4 million in the first quarter to $15.6 million in the second quarter to $16.8 million in the third quarter.
The improved efficiency has also benefited tissue processing gross margins which rebounded in the third quarter and which has positioned us for additional improvements in 2016.
We continue to make significant progress on these initiatives and believe that our tissue processing revenues will meaningfully increase in the future.
I will now turn the call over to Ashley for a detailed review of our third quarter results and updated 2015 financial guidance.
Thanks Pat.
This morning we reported our results for the third quarter of 2015.
The following factors influenced our performance.
Compared to the prior year total company revenues decreased 1% to $36.7 million for the third quarter.
Foreign currency unfavorably affected revenues by 1% compared to the prior year quarter.
Tissue processing revenues increased 1% compared to the prior year while product revenues decreased 3% in the quarter.
The main factors affecting the product results were the conversion to a direct sales model in France and FX which has resulted in currency translation issues as well as affected orders from our OUS distributors who order in US dollars.
On the bottom-line we reported income of $0.07 per fully diluted share.
However excluding $1.1 million in severance-related charges and $817 000 in business development expenses we reported non-GAAP EPS of $0.10.
Focusing on geographic revenues our domestic revenues increased 2% for the third quarter of 2015 compared to the prior year period.
This increase was driven primarily by price increases for tissue processing services and the recent launches of ProCol PhotoFix.
Our third quarter international revenues were $7.3 million down 11% compared to the third quarter of 2014.
International revenues accounted for 20% of our business in the third quarter.
The decrease in international revenues was driven by lack of revenues from our French distributor as we moved to a direct distribution model in France and the effects of foreign currency which has affected our distributor ordering patterns and volumes in several large o-US markets including Brazil.
Focusing on individual product lines tissue processing revenues increased 1% for the quarter compared to the prior year primarily due to price increases.
As Pat mentioned we are seeing positive effects of the processing improvement initiatives that we implemented earlier this year.
Our tissue processing yields have increased significantly and that has had a positive effect on the top-line and on gross margins which improved to 44% in the third quarter.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues in the third quarter decreased 6% year-over-year slightly more than expected driven primarily by decrease in international revenues especially in France and Brazil.
HeRO Graft revenues decreased 3% to $1.9 million in the third quarter of 2015 compared to $2 million in the third quarter of 2014.
Year-to-date the HeRO business is up 4%.
PerClot sales decreased 2% for the third quarter of 2015 compared to the third quarter of 2014.
The decrease was primarily due to the competition from other powdered hemostats in the European market and FX.
Revenues from our TMR product line decreased 20% in the third quarter of 2015 compared to 2014 which resulted primarily from a decrease in handpiece volume year-to-date our TMR business is down 2%.
We are pleased to report that gross margins were ahead of our expectations and improved to 62.6% in the third quarter up from 60.7% in the second quarter and 58.1% in the first quarter.
This primarily results from the increased throughput and productivity and the tissue processing operations and product mix.
SG&amp;A expenses were $17.5 million for the third quarter down from $18.9 million last year.
The third quarter included $1.1 million in severance-related benefits and $817 000 in business development expenses.
As Pat mentioned we continue to seek out evaluate and pursue business development opportunities that would align with our business strategies and priorities and enhance our prospects for future growth.
As of September 30 2015 we had $44.3 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
We continue to carry no debt and expect to continue to generate operating cash flow.
And now for the updated guidance for 2015.
We are lowering our range of revenue guidance to between $146 million and $148 million.
We still expect tissue processing revenues to be at low single-digits on a percentage basis year-over-year and expect that product revenues will be flat compared to the prior year.
We have lowered product revenue guidance due to the continuing challenges we’ve seen in the international markets as well as the trends we’ve seen in the HeRO and TMR businesses.
We are raising our estimates for gross margins and now expect that the full year – for the full year gross margins will be approximately 61%.
We now forecast R&amp;D expenses to be between $11 million and $12 million due principally to slower than expected enrollment in the PerClot clinical trial.
And finally we are increasing our earnings guidance and believe that GAAP earnings per share will be in the range of $0.09 to $0.11 excluding any future business development charges if any.
That concludes my comments.
And I'll turn it back over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley.
Before we open up the call to your questions I wanted to detail our thinking on the potential we see for our business in 2016.
As I outlined earlier the initiatives we believe are essential to our future growth are taking hold and beginning to manifest themselves in our operating results.
We’ve seen sequential improvements in our operating results over the first three quarters of the year and expect that fourth quarter will be a record quarter for CryoLife and launches into 2016 with strong momentum.
I’d like to highlight on the following items demonstrating the progress we’ve made this year and paint a picture for what 2016 could be.
First if you look at our quarterly revenue progression from the first quarter through the third quarter we posted $33.8 million $35.5 million and $36.7 million in revenues.
Going forward we believe that revenues will be favorably affected by the initiatives we’ve undertaken in our tissue processing business direct sales in France and the recently received expanded indication for BioGlue in Japan.
This is evident and that our 2015 full year guidance implies fourth quarter revenues would be 7% to 13% above fourth quarter of last year that’s comparable to a 1% decrease in 2015 year-to-date third quarter revenues as compared to 2014.
Second we’ve discussed the impact of our previous quality issues have had on our gross margin.
Fortunately we’ve seen significant improvement.
Our quarterly tissue processing gross margins have demonstrated steady improvement from the first quarter through the third quarter going from 37% in the first quarter to 38% in the second quarter to 44% in the third quarter and we expect to see another sequential improvement in the fourth quarter and we’ll be able to continue into 2016.
We also believe that the transition to the direct sales force in France will enhance our gross margins in the fourth quarter of 2015.
Finally on the expense side there were several unusual costs and expenses in 2015 including the $2.9 million year-to-date severance charges $1.8 million in business development charges and approximately $1 million in charges resulting from the injunction regarding PerClot in the US.
Some of these items will likely not occur in 2016.
Taking together we believe that these factors will lead to meaningful improvement in our financial results in the fourth quarter and into 2016.
So in closing we are very excited about the future prospects for the company and believe our team of proven leaders is well suited to deliver on our goals.
I would like to thank all those at the company for their contributions this quarter.
Although you may never know or hear from the people you help on a daily basis your work is critical to the well-being of many.
With that we will now open up the lines for questions.
Operator can we please open the line? [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Good morning.
Good morning Jeff.
Could you walk me through and help me out on Q4 as far as guidance and annual guidance I know you are having a tough time getting through the range you are talking about unless revenues on the tissue side you are talking close to $40 million if nothing else changes dramatically on the device side.
Could you discuss that a little bit? Yes so if you do the – if you take the first three quarter actual and then take the guidance that’s what I talked about you are going to see at the low-end of our guidance you are going to see a 7% increase over Q4 of last year and a high-end of 13% increase over the last year.
That’s a combination of a number of things.
It’s the going direct in France so we are going to get end-user revenue and profit as well as the – all the initiatives we put in place for tissue processing.
We basically started that work after the warning letter was lifted back in March and we started that initiative and took a couple of months to get things kind of turning and that takes about a 90 days because of the way the tissues are processed and the way it flows through your inventory.
So all the work that we did kind of in the spring and the summer is going to really come to roost in the fourth quarter on the tissue side of the business.
Okay thanks.
Could you talk a little bit about the margins on the tissue side there are fairly strong for the quarter.
Do you expect that they are going to hold up in the – call it 43% 44% range? And could you also talk more specifically about why it looks like the cardiac side was a bit lighter on revenue and why the vascular side was a bit heavy in revenues? Yes as we’ve said we were disappointed when we gave out guidance in the beginning of 2015 that our tissue margins really took a hit and as Ashley have said in his comments I mean a lot of that was due to the all the quality things we had to put in place the consultants we’ve brought in some of the things that we changed really drove up our cost.
So we try to maintain our very high focus on quality but the improvements we’ve seen in these initiatives we kind of kicked off in the March timeframe.
So again I will just go back on the margins right.
So we saw a 37% margin in Q1 this is on tissue 38% in Q2 44% in Q3.
Our forecast for Q4 is probably in the 47% range.
So we continue to seek – a 1000 basis point improvement over four quarters and we expect to see that kind of throughout 2016 as well.
So you are saying gross margin on tissue could be in the mid to high 40% range? Yes.
Going forward okay interesting and one more if I may could you talk a little bit more about PerClot geographies what you saw the last quarter and what you may see over the next few quarters? Yes so I mean as Ashley mentioned in his comments I mean we are seeing I mean there is actually very good unit growth on PerClot primarily in the European market.
The challenge we are seeing in that market is really multiple competitors and prices coming down.
So t he unit growth is being offset by the ASP declines from some of these aggressive small players which frankly we don’t longer-term I mean the bigger market is the US and they are never going to show up in the US because of the barriers to entry from a clinical and intellectual property standpoint.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Thanks Jeff.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi good morning guys.
So just so I can understand the ramp a little bit better on PhotoFix and ProCol up 29% and 11% sequentially.
Are we still in a mode of adding new institutions buying the products or is some of that growth coming from re-orders from Q2 and earlier? I would say both.
I mean particularly on the PhotoFix side I just came back from the Pediatric Surgery Meeting over the weekend and I received a lots of favorable comments on this product.
So we are getting hospitals to re-order were also opening new hospitals also the story on PhotoFix is going to evolve over the next 18 months I would say which is – as I said in the comments we are going to be bringing on larger product a larger sheet so it can be used in LVADS.
We are going to be getting the CE mark so we can launch the product in Europe.
We are also expecting a couple of papers very positive clinical papers to come out in the next three to six months.
So that continued kind of flow of new iterations is really going to have PhotoFix on a – I think a nice nice trajectory going forward.
So I don’t think you’ve even see in the beginning of PhotoFix yet.
ProCol I think is similar in that there is not as many kind of drivers coming behind it.
But we continue to open new centers as we continue to get re-orders from centers and part of this is just getting the product done.
I think you know very well Tom and in 2015 these value analysis committees you can’t do a show up with a product and have a bath next day.
These things sometimes take a quarter to go through their committee before you can actually get the product on the shelves.
So we’ll again continue to see these new accounts come on board as well on ProCol.
A quarter would be fast to it.
On SG&amp;A I just want to make sure we come close on Q4.
I am expecting that if France comes on board and adds to your gross margin and to your revenues it’s also going to have a pop as you have these new employees in Europe on the SG&amp;A line.
Can you give us any guidance on how much that might be? Yes so we are going to be adding all of sudden doing about five to six sales reps in total and on a quarterly basis you are probably looking about $300 000 to $400 000 in incremental SG&amp;A expenses.
Okay thank you for that.
And then if we look to 2016 kind of continuing on this SG&amp;A theme you just hired a new sales guy are you looking – I’m sorry a new head of global sales and marketing.
Are you looking to expand the US sales force to contract somehow make it more productive above and beyond the new products? What should we look for in 2016 as far as sales force and maybe jazzing top-line a little bit more? I think on of the things you get with John and obviously with my background as well I mean we both have a lot of experience with big organizations.
I don’t think that I think our sales force if you look at the US we’ve got probably 50 positions.
We are not looking at contracting that at all in fact I think there is opportunity.
As we talked about is one of the growth initiatives being M&amp;A anything that we acquire we may or may not pick up reps along the way.
So we will definitely be looking at ways that we can increase the efficiency and the kind of throughout of our sales organization.
That’s something we are going to undertake and as it becomes something we want to share publicly we will do that.
But at this time I think you can just suffice it to say that we are always looking at things like that.
Got it.
Okay that’s it for me guys.
Thank you.
Thanks Tom.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Joe Munda with First Analysis.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning Pat and Ashley.
Thanks for taking the question.
Hey Joe.
Hey Joe.
Real quick Pat can you give us a little bit more color on what’s going on with the enrollment for PerClot? 5 to 15 sites you had hoped it to be a little bit – the progress there would be a little bit better going forward.
Can you give us some color on some of the issues maybe that you are dealing with as far as the trial is concerned? Yes so there is a couple of points I’d bring up from – that were in my comments.
We’ve talked about over the last couple quarters that the contracting IRB that just the process by which to get a site fully up and running.
It’s pretty daunting again in 2015.
So we’ve got five of the 15 up.
They are at various stages of the process.
I think the other thing that we kind of – we are a bit surprised by some of the protocol requirements that as we discussed the protocol with the FDA and then once you put it into practice there were a number of things regarding blood test and imaging where once we gotten into the kind of the close of the trial several clinicians just said I am not going to put my patients through a CT scan.
At this point I would contrast particularly when they’ve got – you are having an operation on their kidney and then you want to have subject it to contrast that was an example of one.
The other one would be blood test that you need in certain number of days in advance that just doesn’t fit with their kind of flow of the patients.
So we are going back to the FDA with some protocol adjustments and we think that those kind of if you will those kind of blocking points would tend to open up the flow as well as we are asking for 10 more centers.
So I think the combination of all those things I think together taken together would put us in a good position to enroll this trial in 2016.
So again we’ve got the benefit of time on our side regarding given the current injunction on PerClot we certainly have a window of opportunity here to I don’t want to take my time with the trial but it’s not like we got a gun to our head on the enrollment speed here.
Sure.
And to that point I mean every quarter we are consistently looking for a ramp in R&amp;D.
I guess to that point how should we look at R&amp;D spending fourth quarter going out into 2016 as the trial starts to really get underway? Yes so we actually basically gave you the full year R&amp;D number.
So you can take the first three quarters for 2015 and look at what he gave you for guidance and you can pretty much figure what Q4 is going to be.
No I know I understand that but is that a number we can normalize out? No I don’t think so because if you follow my comments about the trial we would see a significant ramp in 2016 on the actual enrollment of the trial.
So you are going to see the R&amp;D.
If you look at this year’s number we expected heavy enrollment this year and we’ve backed that number down because of the reasons I just said and so you are going to basically see that that heavier enrollment in expense in R&amp;D going into 2016.
Okay.
And then as far as the shake up to the sales team now Bruce Anderson is out John Davis is in just ascertain the timing of it can you give us some sense of why now why not a quarter now or before a quarter later why all of a sudden now this decision to shake up the sales force? Yes I mean again there is never a – it’s not like we kind of sit down and plan these types of things.
I think there was a number of factors that went into that decision.
Frankly I wasn’t real thrilled with the sales performance for the first half of the year and that basically was one of the catalyst and I wanted to get more seasoned and experienced leadership on the commercial side.
So part of it is when we are ready and part of it’s when your candidates ready.
So I think when those two lines crossed is when we made the move.
Okay.
And then one other I guess question on that front.
David Frank him leaving the company can we – any issues there? I mean I saw the 8-K but anytime you see somebody like that probably insurance some of the issues you had in the past.
Is there any read-through there or? No I think look I am not going to get into comment about specific employees on our earnings call.
I mean Dave was a long-term loyal employee of the company and we just made a decision to go in a different direction.
So that’s it.
Okay.
And then as far as sales reps are concerned 50 reps I mean wit the changeover and John Davis coming in has there been any attrition for the sales force? Not really.
I don’t think we’ve really had any we had some over the last before John got here we had some attrition but I don’t think we really had any.
And again John is a very very seasoned strong leader a very seasoned well respected.
So I would expect to see the sales team kind of railing behind him as he kind of gets to know the folks and lead that group.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Joe.
Thank you.
Our next question is a follow-up from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey just a couple more if I may.
Could you talk a little bit about SG&amp;A it looks like it’s coming off a fair amount.
Has there been any change in the structure as far as compensation? No I think I’ll let Ashley comment but I think on a big picture I mean 2015 there were a number of things and I made the comments in my closing remarks.
There were a number of things that happened in 2015 that we don’t expect to repeat in 2016.
So there were a bunch of severance.
There has been a number of changes at the senior executive level at the Executive Chairman level and we don’t expect those to repeat in 2016.
We also had the injunction in some of the litigation that again it was a big number in the first part of the year.
We don’t expect to repeat itself.
So again there is a lot of – and those were in the comments there is a lot of kind of one-time things this year that we don’t expect to repeat themselves so I don’t know Ashley? Just one other comment I’ll make to that we’ve had several open positions over the last couple of quarters for a variety of reasons that we’ll probably talk about in the future.
We’ve just been delaying in filling a lot of these positions.
So we have had the benefit of that too in the long-lived not filling those positions.
We have reduced travel and support expenses too.
So there are lot of factors that are going on that are causing G&amp;A to be not as smooth as you would expect to see on a quarterly basis.
I think the other thing Jeff I would comment I’ve been here a year and you never know kind of when you come into a new company what the culture is from a financial discipline and how strong the controls are around people budgets and these types of things.
I can tell you that the finance organization here is very strong.
They’ve got excellent budgeting and tracking mechanisms.
I know on a monthly basis every one of my direct reports and their entire organization how they are tracking everyone of my people are below their spending.
So it’s a very disciplined culture around spending and I don’t want to be like say penny wise and pound foolish.
We need to spend the money to drive the growth of the business but we’ve got very strong controls and financial discipline in place.
Got it and one more if I may.
Any further commentary as far as the BD expense for the second quarter in a row.
You are up to now 1.88 for the year.
I guess what we are looking for is any color as far as number of opportunities or specific expenses or is there any one opportunity or two opportunities that’s kind of getting further down the path or what should we expect to hear or how should we expect those special charges to go on in the future? Yes Jeff you’ve been around this a long time and there is no the soup making is sometimes a messy business and we’ve obviously looked at a number of different opportunities and I think the most I could say on that topic is that we are encouraged because there are lots of opportunities but we are being very disciplined and we are doing our homework.
We don’t want to get into a situation where we acquire something and which we hadn’t.
So when we decide to acquire we are going to have very strong conviction around what it’s going to mean for our business and we will be able to share with you what it will do for us and why we are doing the deal and again I think once again shows that the discipline and we are not just going to go off and do acquisitions because we’ve got the financial wherewithal to do it.
We are going to do smart acquisitions and you guys will be the first to know when we do one.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that marks the end of our question session.
I would like to turn the floor back to management for final remarks.
Yes thanks.
Well again I appreciate everybody for joining this morning and while I said in the beginning I wasn’t real pleased with the top-line.
I think this is a inflection point for the company.
We’ve been kind of eating the French revenue with kind of a zero for the first three quarters.
Now we’ve got a direct team in place.
We’ll be driving top-line revenue and margin improvement in that geography going forward.
I just got back from Japan where we launched the new indication for BioGlue there at our most profitable market.
We’ve also got I think some very encouraging data coming out on PhotoFix and that will continue to ramp.
And I think the other the kind of the – hopefully the surprise story here fore everyone is kind of the turnaround of a tissue business.
We told you after the warning letter got lifted that we are going to back in and do a lot of work on tissue and improve supply as well as improve margin and we are doing it.
So to get a 1000 basis point improvement in margin from Q1 to Q4 I think is a pretty impressive accomplishment and we think that will continue into 2016.
So 2016 is set up to be pretty good and at the tail-end of it we are working overtime here on the M&amp;A side and we see lots of things we like and like I said we expense some money but you should feel good about it because we are being disciplined about it and we are going to try to get the right things for the company going forward.
So I am encouraged about 2016 and look forward to speaking with you guys all at the next quarter call.
Thanks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Greetings.
Welcome to the CryoLife Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Pat Mackin President and CEO for CryoLife.
Thank you Mr.
Mackin.
You may now begin.
Good morning everyone.
This is Ashley Lee.
Before we begin I’d like to make the following statements to comply with the Safe Harbor requirements of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Comments made in this call that look forward in time involve risks and uncertainties and are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The forward-looking statements include statements made as to the Company’s or management’s intentions hopes beliefs expectations or predictions of the future.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks uncertainties estimates and assumptions that may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations.
Additional information concerning risks and uncertainties that may impact these forward-looking statements is contained from time-to-time in the Company’s SEC filings and in the press release that was issued last night.
Now I’ll turn it over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley and good morning everyone.
We’re very pleased to report record revenue in the fourth quarter of 2015 capping off what we think was a very productive year for the Company.
I will begin today’s call with a brief review of our fourth quarter results followed by a recap of our significant accomplishments over the course of 2015 which have positioned the Company for improved growth and margin expansion in 2016 and beyond.
Following my initial comments Ashley Lee our CFO will provide a detailed review of our fourth quarter financial results and our 2016 financial guidance.
I will conclude with a review of our key strategic initiatives for 2016 and then we’ll open the line for questions.
This morning we reported record revenue of $39.8 million for the fourth quarter a 7% increase year-over-year.
This includes our third consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth in tissue processing revenues which were up 3% year-over-year.
Product revenues were up 10% year-over-year driven by continued growth of ProCol and PhotoFix and good results from CardioGenesis.
Gross margin for the quarter was 67% which is several hundred basis points better than our historical results in recent years.
The main drivers of gross margin of fourth quarter are product mix and the efficiency and throughput initiatives we’ve implemented over the course of 2015 in our tissue processing businesses much of which we expect to continue into 2016 and support improved overall gross margin.
In addition to these positive financial results we also announced the acquisition of On-X Life Technologies in late December and the divestiture of the HeRo product line to Merit Medical in early February.
I will cover these developments in more detail in my later remarks.
Turning now to an operational update 2015 was a year of significant progress for the Company.
When I joined CryoLife in September 2014 I spent my first 100 days taking a deep dive into our businesses meeting our customers our employees and reviewing the state of our operations.
Following this review we entered 2015 with a set of strategic initiatives designed to reposition CryoLife for improved growth and margin expansion.
Over the course of the year we delivered on those initiatives and as a result we are entering 2016 in a stronger position with significant new growth drivers for our high margin medical device products segment along with improved opportunities for our tissue processing business.
Our key accomplishments for the year include the following: First we made significant progress enhancing the quality systems and efficiency of our tissue processing operations which positions this business for mid-single-digit growth and improved margins in 2016.
This major accomplishment involved a closeout of the FDA warning with no additional observations in March followed by the continued investment in new protocols to improve the efficiency of our procurement processing and customer service operations.
As a result we were able to improve tissue gross margins from 37% in the first quarter to 48% in the fourth quarter that’s an 1100 basis-point improvement in just one year.
Tissue revenue was lower than we forecasted in the fourth quarter caused by inventory constraints on certain tissue products and high demand from our customers.
So the good news is that demand for our tissue remains high and we have the potential in 2016 to leverage the efficiency improvements we implemented in 2015 to increase availability and drive meaningful increase in tissue processing revenue in the future.
Second over the course of the year we strengthened our executive team with the appointment of several highly experienced leaders.
This was highlighted by the appointment of Jean Holloway as Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Bill Matthews as Senior Vice President of Operations Quality and Regulatory; and John Davis Senior Vice President of Global Sales and Marketing.
These executives have broader understanding of the healthcare industry from their work at much larger medical device companies.
As a result our team is well-positioned to manage the business as we grow CryoLife.
Third we had several important developments regarding new products in 2015; this includes the January launch of PhotoFix which delivered $1.4 million in sales in 2015.
PhotoFix continues to represent a near and midterm opportunity for growth.
In 2016 we expect sales will continue to ramp with additional growth potential driven by the significant increase in our cardiac surgery sales force that’s calling on cardiac surgeons as a result of the acquisition of On-X.
We continue to believe that PhotoFix has the potential to become a leading product in the $30 million plus market for biological patches using cardiac surgery.
Fourth we also made important progress in the area of expanding the indications of some key products.
In July we received an expanded indication of approval in BioGlue in Japan and we are now able to sell that product to a much broader cardiac surgery patient population.
Since the approval we have seen very strong increases and adoption in the expanded patient population.
Also in the expanded indication product segment in November we reached a resolution on our patent dispute with Medafor regarding PerClot which removes an ongoing legal dispute that could have taken years and million dollars to resolve.
The resolution had minimal impact on our commercial timeline delaying our U.S.
commercial launch to February of 2019.
This shift in the timeline also allows us to take a pause with our PerClot clinical trial to work with the FDA to attempt to amend the PerClot pivotal trial protocol which we believe would support a more rapid enrollment and more robust data collection of the clinical results.
We have a meeting with the FDA later this month to discuss these amendments and we’re hopeful of restarting the trial in the second half of 2016.
Fifth we took yet another important step in our international expansion plans by going direct in France on October 1st and expanding our French direct sales team with the addition of our country manager to lead our six-person direct sales team.
Transitioning to a direct sales model in selective international markets is a strategic initiative for CryoLife because it carries the potential to enhance our revenue and gross margin and also allows us to implement a more focused sales and marketing strategy and provides a platform for future new product introduction such as our On-X valves.
Our results in the fourth quarter in France were in line with our expectations.
And as we look to 2016 we expect to see a positive impact on revenue and gross margin as we benefit from the ability to sell expanded product portfolio directly to our hospital customers.
Sixth and the final area of key accomplishments in 2015 is in the area of strategy and supporting business development activities.
Over the course of the year we looked at a number of potential transactions while maintaining a strong financial discipline and focusing on deals with the greatest strategic benefit.
As a result in late December we announced the acquisition of On-X Life Technologies which significantly enhances the size of our addressable market and growth potential.
This was followed by the announcement earlier this month of the sale of the HeRo Graft product line further strengthening our focus on the Cardiac surgery market.
This primary focus on the cardiac surgery market will pay off in many ways.
This will concentrate our sales and marketing resources as well as our R&amp;D and clinical programs.
The cardiac surgery market is a very large market with lots of opportunity to create a unique company that has a novel differentiated technology that carries the potential to improve patient outcomes and reduce cost.
We are very excited about the On-X -- of adding the On-X portfolio to CryoLife given the significant growth opportunities and synergies of the combined company.
We closed the On-X acquisition on January 20th and since then we’ve become even more encouraged by what we’ve seen about the potential benefits of the acquisition.
First it allows us to enter a $220 million mechanical valve market with a differentiated high margin product.
On a strategic level the mechanical valve market is highly synergistic with CryoLife’s cardiac surgery business.
We believe the transaction will strengthen our focus and critical mass in the aortic and mitral valve repair and replacement segment creating a more robust platform that we can leverage with additional products in the future.
Second the combination of our direct sales organization and On-X team of direct reps more than double the size of our previous cardiac surgery sale force in the U.S.
This combined team is highly experienced and has a broader product portfolio to cross-sell.
We see tremendous upside potential for the On-X valves given the limited sales support these products have received previously.
We further strengthened the focus of our commercial organizations in cardiac surgery with the sale of the HeRo Graft business in early February.
Outside the U.S.
we will introduce On-X products into our direct markets over the course of 2016.
As a reminder these include markets like the United Kingdom Ireland Germany Australia and France.
Third we have learned even more about the robust clinical data supporting the On-X valve and discussed the product with more physicians.
In turn we’ve become increasingly more confident in its potential to take market share.
As a reminder On-X has the only FDA approved mechanical aortic valve that is approved for an INR range of 1.5 to 2.0.
As we’ve discussed a lower INR range is more optimal as it lowers the risk of patients of having complications from bleeding without at the same time increasing the risk of stroke which is a major concern of doctors in patients.
We believe this is a significant differentiator and will provide us with a distinct competitive selling advantage.
Last the addition of On-X diversifies our business mix provides additional margin expansion opportunity and reduces our reliance on the tissue business.
Since closing the acquisition the integration of our On-X team is off to a great start.
We have had a meaningful progress combining and training the sales force optimizing their respective territories.
Given the shift in some territories in addition of new products our sales force is in the process of updating existing relationships and making introductory calls on their new accounts.
We have a robust integration plan for both the U.S.
and international segments of the business.
And once the newly combined teams have had time to further establish themselves in their territories we anticipate our On-X valve business will grow at a double-digit growth rate between 2016 and 2020 with gross margins in the U.S.
close to 90%.
Internationally we expect to drive margin higher as we transition from distributor model to a direct sales model in select geographies over the next few years.
Overall by executing our strategic initiatives for 2015 we have taken a strong first step in repositioning CryoLife into a higher growth and more profitable company.
The On-X acquisition is a transformative event for us that we expect will immediately benefit revenue mix and growth trajectory which should in turn drive gross margin expansion in double-digit compounded growth in adjusted earnings from 2016 to 2020.
I will now turn the call over to Ashley for a detailed review of our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results and 2016 financial guidance.
Thanks Pat.
This morning we’ve reported our results for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2015.
The following factors influenced our performance: Compared to the prior year total company revenues increased 7% to $39.8 million for the fourth quarter which represented an all-time quarterly record for the Company.
Foreign currency unfavorably affected revenues by $379 000 or approximately 1% compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year.
Tissue processing revenues increased 3% compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year while product revenues increased 10% over the fourth quarter of last year.
The main factors affecting those results were the continuing success from our newest product introductions PhotoFix and ProCol and better than expected results in our TMR product line.
On the bottom-line we reported $0.09 per fully diluted share for the quarter.
However excluding $1.1 million in business development expenses and $615 000 in amortization non-GAAP adjusted EPS was $0.13.
Focusing on geographic revenues compared to the prior year our domestic revenues increased 10% to $30.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2015.
This increase was driven primarily by improved results in the TMR business price increases and improved tissue mix for tissue processing services and the recent launches of ProCol and PhotoFix.
Our fourth quarter international revenues were $9 million down 2% compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
International revenues accounted for 23% of our business in the fourth quarter.
The decrease in international revenues was driven by the effects of foreign currency which adversely affected 4Q revenues by $379 000.
The strong dollar has also affected our U.S.
dollar based foreign business particularly in Brazil.
Focusing on individual product lines tissue processing revenues increased 3% for the quarter compared to the prior year primarily due to price increases and improved tissue mix.
As Pat mentioned we are seeing positive effects of the processing improvement initiatives that we implemented earlier this year.
Our tissue processing yields have increased dramatically and that has had a positive effect on the top-line and on gross margins which improved to 48% in the fourth quarter.
Worldwide BioGlue revenues in the fourth quarter increased 1% year-over-year driven primarily by the commencement of direct sales in France partially offset by a decrease in international revenues due to FX.
PerClot revenues decrease 11% for the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
The decrease was primarily due to competition from other powdered hemostats in the European market and FX.
Revenues from our TMR product line increased 62% in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to 2014 which resulted primarily from a 29% increase in handpiece volume and from the sale of $1.1 million in capital equipment during the quarter.
We’re pleased to report that gross margins were ahead of our expectations and improved to 67% in the fourth quarter up from 63% in the third quarter 61% in the second quarter and 58% in the first quarter.
This primarily reflects results from the increased throughput and productivity in the tissue processing operations the sale of $1.1 million in TMR capital equipment during the quarter and product mix.
As of February 12 2016 we had approximately $40 million in cash cash equivalents and restricted cash and securities.
This reflects cash used in the acquisition of On-X along with net proceeds from the recent sale of the HeRo product line.
And now for our 2016 financial guidance we expense revenues to be between $178 million and $180 million which represents a mid-single-digits percentage pro forma increase compared to 2015 when adjusting 2015 revenue to include On-X and exclude the HeRO Graft.
We expect tissue processing and product revenues to be up mid-single-digits on a percentage basis year-over-year.
We estimate gross margins will be approximately 63% for 2016; this includes the effects of an estimated $3.3 million write-up of acquired On-X inventory.
Excluding the effects of that write-up we expect gross margins to be approximately 65% in 2016.
We forecast R&amp;D expenses to be between $13 million and $15 million.
And finally we expected adjusted net income per share to be between $0.29 and $0.32.
Adjusted net income is defined as pre-tax income plus amortization business development which includes transaction and integration related costs and adjustments for any other unusual items.
The formula for calculating adjusted net income differs from the methodology that we have previously utilized and that we are now adding back amortization.
We feel that this is important as we move into 2016 as we expect amortization to increase significantly with the On-X acquisition.
And adding back amortization to 2016 ‘15 and ‘14 results will provide a better comparison of operating performance of the Company.
We will continue to report GAAP results as required.
That concludes my comments and I’ll turn it back over to Pat.
Thanks Ashley.
Before we open up the call to your questions I’ll provide an overview of our key initiatives for 2016.
First we’re highly focused on achieving the financial guidance for revenue growth and adjusted EPS that Ashley just outlined.
Second is realizing the potential of the On-X business.
We anticipate in 2016 the combined team can deliver high-single-digit percentage or even greater revenue growth on the On-X portfolio.
Third we will continue to drive efficiency in our tissue processing businesses both in terms of increasing our supply of our key in demand tissue and supporting gross margin expansion.
Fourth we will continue to grow BioGlue through our increased cardiac surgery sales force our direct operations in France and our new indication adoption in Japan.
Fifth we will prepare future growth drivers for the Company through our clinical programs which include enrolling patients in the PerClot U.S.
IDE as well as BioGlue China.
Six we will continue to evaluate potential business development opportunities to enhance our focus in critical mass and cardiac surgery.
If we accomplish these goals CryoLife will enhance its position as a leader in the cardiac surgery market with continued upside potential for revenue growth and margin expansion.
So in closing we are very excited about the future prospects of the Company and believe our experienced leadership team is well-suited to deliver on our goals.
I’d like to thank you -- I’d like to thank all that are at the Company for their contributions in 2015.
You should never forget how important your work is to the wellbeing of so many lives around the globe.
With that we will now open up the lines for questions.
Operator please take us through that process.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Firstly could you walk me through what your anticipated balance sheet looks like currently with post the closing of On-X? Well I think the key changes are going to be the $75 million term loan that we entered into in January of this year as well as the issuance of the common stock that was used in the transaction.
So the sum total of all of that was approximately $128 million.
The majority of that amount is going to be allocated to long-term assets including goodwill and other intangibles the amounts allocated to current assets including receivables and inventory.
I think preliminarily we’re looking at around $15 million to $17 million but again that’s preliminary we have not finished the purchase price allocation yet.
Okay got it.
And could you talk about the timing of the close and also the timing of the close on HeRo as far as inventories and precise timing as far as closing revenues to you? Yes.
So we closed the sale of the HeRo product line to Merit Medical on February the 3rd.
And just to give you a little bit of perspective and this is actually included in the press release that went out this morning.
We recorded about $7.5 million in revenues in 2015.
And the gross margins were in the mid 50% range.
Going forward we did continue to sell the HeRo product line up through February the 3rd so you will see a small amount of revenue in the 2016 results related to that.
In addition to that we will continue to manufacture the HeRo Graft for Merit for a period of up to six months.
It could be less than that.
It just depends on the progress that they make in transferring the manufacturing to one of their facilities.
So you will see some contract revenue related to HeRo could be up to six months after close.
And we will recognize just a very small margin on that transition supply agreement with Merit.
Okay so what would you anticipate would be the revenue for On-X in the first quarter based on the close and how that might look relative to its $33 million run rate historically? Yes.
So this is Pat.
Good morning Jeff.
I think this is one we’re not going to start breaking out On-X revenues for the first quarter.
I think as I made remark in my comments we’ve got a lot of moving parts.
I mean we announced the deal on the 23rd of December; we closed it on the 20th of January.
Since the announcement of the deal we’ve had a sales training meeting here in the U.S.; we had a global meeting so we’ve had a couple of weeks of sales training; we’ve merged three sales forces; we’re going direct in six countries.
So we’ve got a lot of kind of moving parts here.
And I’m very confident in this product line growing at a double digit rate over the five-year period.
I think breaking out the quarterly revenues for the first 90 days is not really what we’re looking at here.
We’re looking at more of a long term -- we feel very confident this asset can grow.
We want to get it off to the right start.
Okay got it.
The TMR revenue for Q4 seemed tremendously strong.
So you said you had $1.1 million from capital equipment.
Could you talk about number of placements and general trends as far as utilization that you saw into the fourth quarter…? I think one of the challenges with that -- when you have a capital component I mean this is -- I think this is the only product at CryoLife that has a capital component to it.
And these consoles can cost up to up in the $300 000 $400 000 range.
And those are put through hospital capital budgets and those can take a long time.
And so you can never really predict when they’re going to come out.
And we obviously have had a number of consoles in the work so that was I believe I think four consoles to four different centers.
And a lot of time hospitals will look at their yearend budgets and if they’ve been budgeted from a capital standpoint.
So that’s what we saw which is great news we’ve got the placement and then the placements -- that will start the kind of the handpiece usage.
So it’s hard to predict that.
And that’s one of the challenges of that product line -- this could be somewhat lumpy because it’s got that big capital component.
Okay one more if I may.
Could you talk a little bit about the vascular market and your outlook as far as the Company’s focus in hemodialysis and also talk about ProCol? Yes.
So I mean when we did it I made some remarks around the strategy and the M&amp;A work that we did and we clearly looked at -- CryoLife had some good assets in both the cardiac surgery field with BioGlue and the valves the tissue valves and then likewise in the vascular space.
We had a nice product offering on vascular tissue as well as HeRo and ProCol.
Our -- my view in looking at this was that we were in too many things for a small company and we really needed to focus.
So we actually looked at both markets pretty heavily.
And our determination is there was a lot more assets as well as the size of the market as well as the kind of the synergy with the Company given that how important BioGlue is how important cardiac tissue is.
We just felt like the cardiac path was a much better path to go down.
So we still have a very healthy business in the vascular tissue area; that’s not going to change.
Our 51 reps are calling on cardiovascular centers.
So that is not a big stretch for them to continue to sell the vascular tissue.
ProCol has actually done fairly well this year this past year.
And that’s something that as we sold HeRo defocusing on the dialysis space but we still have a good product in that area.
Again I think it’s all -- it’s relative.
We’re clearly shifting to a much more focus in the kind of cardiovascular technology space away from the vascular -- pure vascular dialysis space.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gunderson with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead with your question.
So on the On-X Pat you said in the prepared remarks growth rate strong double-digits 2016 to 2020 but -- and I understand there is a lot of immediate -- a lot of varying things that are going on to integrate the business this year.
But is it fair to assume as we build our models that that 13% compounded annual growth that you showed in the chart back in December from 2010 to 2014 continued into 2015 and will continue into 2016 or does the disruption in change of ownership and the things that you outlined mean that there is a step back in ‘16 and then things start going forward either later this year or into ‘17? Yes.
So a couple of comments.
We did see in 2015 for On-X their growth kind of stalled overseas but they were still seeing double-digit growth in the U.S.
So that was kind of a change from the previous kind of five years if you will.
And there is some reasons for it.
Number one we were in negotiation with On-X throughout the period and we had actually asked them to not sign up certain distributors in certain markets because it would make us more complicated for us to unwind.
We’d asked them to actually terminate certain distributors.
I try to -- on something like this I try to go up to 100 000 feet.
Number one I am highly convinced that this is a differentiated technology that’s going to take market share.
I will give you just a snippet from -- I was at a cardiac surgery meeting this weekend with 45 heart surgeons and I showed them the PROACT results.
And I asked them do you think this data is compelling enough to get somebody to switch from their mechanical valve that they are using? And 83% of them yes.
So my job and this organization’s job over the next five years is to convince every heart surgeon on the planet that they should be using On-X valve over any other valve.
So that’s why I start -- and so I believe that.
That’s very exciting.
Now I am focused on in the first quarter and the second quarter of this acquisition integration is just put the pieces in place to make sure we can actually deliver the message right.
So merging three sales forces training those sales forces getting them to meet their new customers going direct in six geographies.
So again I am hopeful that we will actually beat the numbers that we are putting out there but I want to give ourselves a little bit of cushion given all the choppiness that we’ve got.
But the long term view of this is that we are expecting a double-digit growth rate over the five-year period.
So you can kind of figure out what to put in your model.
But I think for 2016 there is a lot of moving parts.
And we are hoping to exit at a higher growth rate than we’re starting out at.
Got it.
Thanks.
And then on the service side on tissue good job obviously on increasing the quality which gave you more to sell and also better margins is going -- marching from 37% to 48% over the course of the year was part of that strength in Q4 just because you got a Q4 effect or should we take this 48% and hold it through ‘16 or maybe even increase it? Yes.
I think Q4 there was some kind of end of year one timer thing that kind of made Q4 look a little better.
We think the mid-40s is -- we’re guiding to the mid-40s.
We are going to be working -- continuing to work to try to push that even higher.
But again we want to -- there are things we think we can do to improve the gross margin.
But we feel like we are modeling kind of the 45%-46% range for 2016.
And again we are aggressively moving to get that better.
But I don’t want to set ourselves up for some we can’t deliver.
So that’s a huge improvement over where we started a year ago.
Our next question is from the line Joe Munda with First Analysis.
Please proceed with your question.
First of all Ashley I guess on -- in your prepared remarks you mentioned an inventory write-down related to On-X products; is that correct? No actually it’s a write-up.
Whenever you buy a company like this one of the things that you have to do is write-up their inventory; it’s standard practice.
And I think the thought is that in inventory that you acquire in an acquisition you really not allow to make a normal profit on that inventory.
So you have to write that inventory up.
So we think that that $3.3 million is going essentially run through our P&amp;L over the balance of 2016 and then as you enter into 2017 you are going to see much higher margins on the On-X business.
Okay.
So it is going to run through for the course of the year; we’re not going to see one-time in the first quarter or the second quarter… No you’re not going to see a one-time thing.
It will kind of like bleed out readably over the course of 2016 as consistent with our revenues.
But it is an amount that we will report on on a quarterly basis.
So you’ll know what it is at the end of each quarter.
And I think the other way to look at it Joe -- I mean this again this is just kind of how you have to account for the acquired inventory.
But the gross margin we’re guiding to is in the 63% range.
And if we didn’t have to write that inventory up it’d be at 65%.
So once it flows through you get about 2-point margin bump and that will be coming we think at the end of the year.
Okay that makes sense.
Pat as far as PerClot is concerned you gave us some color here on trial as well as the R&amp;D and guidance.
I guess what are we looking at? You mentioned mid-point of the year.
Can you give us some sense what it’s going to look like as far as R&amp;D is concerned or the cost related to the trial possibly in 2016 and going into 2017; what are your thoughts there? Yes.
So I think I mean the good news about it -- so we got enjoined.
So we talked about the injunction; the good news is we settled with bar and we’re not spending more legal bills.
And all we’ve really done is aligned our timelines for the clinical program with the legal situation.
The patent just to remind people the patent expires in February of 2019.
So my view was why kind of load-up my P&amp;L with a bunch of clinical expense in ‘16 and ‘17 heavy to wait around for a year to get the approval.
So we’re basically -- we’re going back to meet with the FDA later this month and we’re looking at one getting to a point what we’re very confident with the data collections we’re going to have some discussions with them about that as well as we’re going to have some discussions about streamlining the trial and so we get more rapid enrollment.
And our goal here is really spread out the trial and the spending because it really gets to your question over kind of ‘16 and ‘17 and then have ‘18 for the approval year and then be ready to go at the beginning of ‘19.
So that’s the plan.
I mean I think we think there is probably $6 million to $7 million left on the PerClot trial and we’re going to try to spread that.
There won’t be much by way of R&amp;D in the first half of this year particularly on that -- I mean on that program.
And as I said in my comments we expect to start back up in the middle of ‘16.
And then so you would spread that over kind of back half of ‘16 all of ‘17 and maybe the front half of ‘18.
So just to give you a sense; and I’m just telling you what I think right now part of -- we’ll get more details after we have our meeting with the FDA.
Okay.
Thank you.
That’s very helpful.
I’ve got two more here.
You mentioned France in your prepared remarks.
Can you give us some idea of what France represented as a percentage of total revenue in Q4? Yes.
Off the top of my head it’d be hard to do.
I can tell you kind of what we talk -- we spoke about publicly.
So we were doing $3 million in France in BioGlue when we went through our distributor.
And we feel again -- so the part of the challenge here is the currency has been moving all through that period.
But we saw our revenue or projected our revenue would go up from $3 million to roughly $4.5 million -- between 4$.5 million and $5 million when we went direct because that just basically eliminates the middleman and go in straight to the end user.
So your revenue goes up your margin goes up and that’s consistent with the whole idea of going direct.
So it’s about 3%; I just had somebody calculated for us so about 3%.
But I think the more important point is we had 3 just by going direct; we take that business up to 4.5 to 5.
And then exactly the reason we’ve been telling you guys all along which is it’s a strategic initiative because now we’re direct in France.
And when we acquire a company like On-X by the way that was the same distributor those reps were selling the On-X out.
So that group’s now going to be selling BioGlue and On-X for us straight to the end user increase revenue increase margin.
And then when we bring our next product on they can do the same thing.
So again that’s part of the overall strategy here was to get that foundation and be able to leverage it going forward.
Okay thank you.
And then Ashley just some housekeeping items here.
Depreciation for the quarter operating cash flow and I guess CapEx for the full year? CapEx for the full year was around $3.5 million.
I think going forward into 2016 we’re anticipating that CapEx is going to be around $7 million and that includes some money to expand our capacity down at On-X.
Operating cash flow for the full year of 2015 was around $11.5 million; and in the fourth quarter it was I think about $1.5 million roughly.
Okay.
And then I’m sorry depreciation? Depreciation for the full year runs between $4 million and $5 million.
Okay.
And I think for 2016 we’re anticipating that the number is going to be around $5 million including On-X.
Thank you.
There are no additional questions at this time.
I’d like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.
Well I want to thank everybody for joining this morning.
And as we talked about throughout the call we had a good fourth quarter.
We accomplished a lot in ‘15 that set ourselves up for ‘16.
I think one of the key takeaways here is that we are very bullish on the On-X valve.
We are going to positioning our channels both in the U.S.
and overseas in our direct markets to deliver this message because we think it’s a very strong message.
And having that many reps selling the On-X valve as well as selling our product line we think is going to provide some significant opportunity on the cross-selling.
So our goal here this year is to deliver our numbers integrate the On-X transaction and deliver really the platform for the future growth.
And as Ashley talked about in the financials as this inventory write-up kind of flows through the P&amp;L our margins are going to improve as we go direct in the direct markets.
Our margins are going to improve as we sell more business in the U.S.
with On-X the margins are going to improve.
So again I think we’ve got a lot of nice opportunities here to improve our topline growth as well as our profitability to Company.
So we’re looking forward to it.
And I look forward to keeping you guys posted throughout the year.
Thanks for calling in.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect your lines at this time.