Good morning.
My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the CVS Caremark First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn today's call over to Ms.
Nancy Christal.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Celeste.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm here with Larry Merlo President and CEO; Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO; and Per Lofberg President of our PBM business.
[Operator Instructions] I want to make sure you're all aware that we posted slides on our website this morning that summarize the information on this call.
The slides also include some key facts and figures that you may find helpful which we won't have time to review on the call.
I also want to announce the date for our 2011 Analyst Day.
It will be held on the morning of Friday October 7 in New York City.
More details will be forthcoming but please hold the date.
This morning we'll discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our company's performance namely free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
As always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call.
Please note that we expect to file our Form 10-Q by the end of today and it will be available through our website at that time.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this call we'll make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and that you review the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements in our most recently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Thanks Nancy and good morning everyone.
I'm very pleased to report that 2011 is off to a good start with results slightly above guidance for both our Retail and PBM businesses.
We reported adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.57 for the first quarter just above the high end of our guidance range.
And we generated $1.6 billion in free cash flow more than double what we generated in last year's first quarter.
As you know last week we announced that we completed the acquisition of the Universal American's Part D business a bit earlier than expected.
The addition of the Universal book to our own Med D business makes us a very strong #2 player in this fast growing space and we continue to expect the acquisition to be approximately $0.08 accretive to our adjusted earnings per share this year.
So with our solid results for the quarter I am pleased to reaffirm the guidance we provided on our last call for the full year '11.
We continue to expect to deliver adjusted EPS from continuing operations of between $2.72 and $2.82 while generating between $4 billion and $4.2 billion of free cash and Dave Denton will talk more on guidance during his financial review.
Now before getting into the business review let me address the speculation with regards to the future direction of our company speculation that has been publicized in both the press and the investment community.
I want to hit this topic head on to clarify any misperceptions in the marketplace and set our story and our focus straight.
Now despite conjecture in the marketplace there are no plans to split up the company.
We strongly believe that we have the right assets in place to ensure our long-term success in this changing health care environment.
Our world-class Retail business that makes up about 2/3 of our company's operating profit is expected to achieve continued healthy growth for years to come.
We are shifting the role of our 20 000 Retail pharmacists from primarily dispensing prescriptions to also providing services and our integrative Pharmacy Services model enables us to enhance access to care while lowering overall health care costs and improving health outcomes which fits extremely well with the goals of health reform along with the goals of payers.
Over the past few years we have introduced breakthrough products that capitalize on the benefits of our integrated model which continue to gain traction in the marketplace.
These unique products and services cannot be easily replicated through a partnership or an alliance.
Products such as Maintenance Choice Pharmacy Advisor the Patient Care Initiative are already improving the health of our members while reducing costs.
Additionally we have achieved more than $700 million in annual purchasing synergies and overhead savings from the Retail PBM combination and we've made the necessary investments to facilitate future growth.
At the same time we know that growth in our PBM segment has been disappointing and we are keenly focused on returning to healthy operating profit growth.
As we've stated in the past the decline in our PBM's operating profit performance has had nothing to do with our integrated model and we have taken several steps to address outstanding issues.
In short there are 5 key elements of our plan.
First achieve continued momentum in new business wins and strong client retention.
Second continue to develop and upsell our unique clinical offerings.
Third drive growth in 90-day mail choice and generic dispensing rates.
Fourth focus on high-growth areas especially Medicare Part D specialty Pharmacy and Aetna.
And fifth execute successfully on the PBM streamlining initiative and I'll provide an update on each of these 5 important points in a few minutes.
That said I believe we have the right plan being executed by the right people supported with the right processes and technology to deliver on the full potential of this business over the long term.
In addition to the anticipated benefits from this plan 2012 begins the generic wave a generic wave that will carry through the next few years with over $90 billion of branded products coming off patent.
So I am confident that 2012 will be the year that our PBM breaks trend and demonstrate healthy operating profit growth.
We believe that improving the performance of our PBM is the most effective and fastest way to increase shareholder value.
And that breaking up the company would be a step in the wrong direction for plan members Retail customers and certainly our payers.
Now I'd also like to address the recent press reports detailing some accusations by some special interest groups of anti-competitive behavior.
The reality is that we have a business model that is challenging the status quo and some competitors are threatened by our innovative solutions.
For more than 2 years certain well-funded special interest groups with specific agendas agendas unrelated to the protection of consumers have been making false unfounded and misleading accusations regarding CVS Caremark to the media and to government officials.
Their goal is to pressure us to change certain elements of our business practices and service offerings and I can unequivocally say that these changes would not benefit consumers.
They would instead result in reduced choice and increased prices for payers and consumers.
Our offerings such as Maintenance Choice afford consumers greater choice and improved health outcomes while reducing costs in a highly competitive Retail and PBM marketplace.
And we do this without improperly steering members to CVS Retail pharmacies a false accusation that remains unfounded.
These accusations continue to be repackaged and repeated by special interest groups in the media and in letters to regulators.
But none of the accusations have ever been substantiated and we remain highly confident in the integrity of our business practices.
So with that said let me turn to our business update and I'll start with the PBM.
And I'll begin by addressing our progress on each of the 5 key elements of our PBM plan for growth that I just referenced.
The first key element of our plan is to achieve continued momentum on new business wins and client retention.
As you know we had a terrific 2011 selling season including the landmark long-term contract with Aetna.
We won $8.9 billion in net new business for '11 slightly less than our previous report primarily due to Aetna having fewer logs under management.
And from a retention perspective we've completed more than 90% of the renewals for '11 and our retention rate remains at 97%.
The 2012 selling season is off to a good start including some significant renewals.
Industry pricing remains competitive but rational and we'll have a lot more to say about renewals as well as new business as we get further along in the selling season.
But I can tell you that our sales team is highly enthusiastic.
They're engaged.
They're optimistic about our prospects and so am I.
The second key element of our plan is to continue to develop and upsell our unique clinical offerings.
Our latest breakthrough offering Pharmacy Advisor launched in January and our pharmacists welcome the opportunity to consultations.
And early results point to nearly 80% of the people who received a gap in care intervention subsequently filling their gap medications.
We find that members are responding quite favorably to the opportunities to improve their health and that doctors are also responding favorably because we're helping them make more informed decisions about the care of their patients.
Approximately 10 million patients are active in the program today with another 2.5 million more members committed for 2011 implementations.
So the program has been extremely well received and it's continuing to grow.
In 2012 we expect to take our learnings and launch Pharmacy Advisor for 4 key cardiovascular conditions and we'll continue to expand to other conditions over time.
The third key element of the plan: aggressively drive growth in mail choice and generics.
Our Maintenance Choice population now totals 630 clients representing 7.8 million lives and we continue to see a shift toward more new clients as well as more former voluntary mail programs adopting Maintenance Choice.
In fact 54% of the lives adopting Maintenance Choice in 2011 came from voluntary mail plans compared to less than 16% in 2009.
Savings on the total drugs spent for these clients range anywhere from 2% to 4% and our data shows that 30% more members stay on therapy with Maintenance Choice versus a traditional mandatory mail program.
In addition our members save approximately 33% in out-of-pocket costs on an annual basis and we're beginning to see the stickiness of clients who were early adopters of Maintenance Choice which speaks volumes to the value that clients see in our integrated offerings.
Now recognizing the upcoming generic wave we continue to encourage the adoption of plan designs to improve generic dispensing rates.
More than 200 of our clients representing about 5.7 million lives have adopted generic Step Therapy plans.
Clients with high performance generic plan designs have seen a 360 basis point improvement in their GDR.
Through this program many clients have seen overall Pharmacy savings in the range of 4% to 6%.
Now given our strong alignment these generic Step Therapy programs translate into significant savings for clients and enhanced profitability for us.
So what you're seeing here is increasing evidence that all of these programs together are yielding superior results.
It's about getting the medicine right and getting the behavior right and both are needed to improve health and reduce total costs.
The fourth key element of our plan is a focus on the high-growth areas especially Med D Specialty and Aetna.
I already noted that we closed on the acquisition of Universal American's Med D business and our integration work now begins.
Another area of significant growth is the rapidly growing Specialty Pharmacy sector.
In order to help our clients appropriately manage utilization in high-cost areas we recently announced a new medical benefit drug management service that will be available to clients beginning in January of 2012.
The offering provides a comprehensive solution for oncology patients and providers.
Today more than 50% of Specialty spend flows through the medical benefit and is largely unmanaged.
Through this effort we can provide our clients with an opportunity to better manage these expensive drugs while also improving the quality of care for their members.
And then the third high-growth area is capitalizing on the long-term upside potential of the Aetna contract.
We're currently in the implementation phase and it is proceeding according to our plan.
We recently began dispensing Aetna Specialty prescriptions and the mail service transition will begin early in the third quarter.
We are also working closely with Aetna on their sales strategy and value proposition for 2012 and beyond.
We've leveraged our analytic and enterprise expertise to build an Aetna-specific personalized opportunity analysis so they can present savings to their clients to support expansion of our unique CVS Caremark products as part of their 2012 value proposition.
Our goal is to help them service their clients and build their client base by providing innovative solutions that deliver low-cost high-quality care for their members.
And then the fifth key element of our plan: successfully execute on the PBM streamlining initiative and I'm happy to report that it's moving forward nicely.
We recently announced the closing of one of our 7 call centers.
And as you know we are also upgrading our technology platforms enabling rapid implementation of new and unique product offerings while eliminating redundancies within our IT environment and that allows us to reduce costs over time.
Now some investors have expressed concern about potential client disruption as we migrate to a more efficient environment.
So let me put that concern to rest.
We recently concluded the first wave of platform migrations with 0 disruption to our clients and members.
Our team has a process in place to test the accuracy of the adjudication process prior to the switchover which dramatically minimizes the opportunity for human error.
This process has worked as designed during the first wave which bodes well for seamless transition of future client conversions.
And keep in mind that more than 50% of our client volume is already on the destination platform.
So I'm confident that the platform migration will be a win-win for both us and for our clients.
Now let me turn to the Retail business.
Our same-store sales increased 2.6% in the quarter well within our 1% to 3% guidance range and we continued to gain share.
Pharmacy comps increased 3.7% with script comps up 3.9% and that's reflecting 90-day prescriptions equaling one script.
When you convert 90-day scripts into 3 scripts our script unit comps increase to 6.0%.
Front store comps increased 0.4% in the quarter and as expected front-end comps were negatively impacted by approximately 45 basis points due to the Easter shift along with an additional 65 basis points related to the absence of sales associated with the grand reopening of the Longs stores in the prior year.
Now given these tougher comparisons front store traffic has been somewhat flat with the average front store ticket increasing to about $13 in the quarter.
We saw a strength in the number of categories especially cough and cold consumables the Valentine season as well as store brands.
In fact store-branded proprietary products now account for 17.5% of front-end sales up 100 basis points from the prior year as we see consumers remaining value conscious.
We launched more than 500 new items in the quarter including our new value brand Just the Basics which has price points geared to consumers seeking deeper savings.
Turning to the Pharmacy.
Our Pharmacy comps were negatively impacted by approximately 260 basis points from new generics in the quarter and positively impacted by the stronger flu season in January and February versus the prior year.
In addition Pharmacy comps benefited from the continued growth of Maintenance Choice which added about 170 basis points on a net basis.
As you'll recall we completed the Pharmacy technology rollout in the fall of last year.
And our RxConnect system coupled with the Consumer Engagement Engine builds important information into our Pharmacy workflow enabling our Pharmacy teams to provide higher levels of patient care.
And this is certainly evident in our recent customer service scores which are better than ever.
Now let me give you a brief update on our store clustering initiatives which helped fuel the top and bottom line.
We are now into the second year for the urban rollout.
We have plans to complete another 220 stores this year on top of the 200 that we completed last year.
And we continue to see strong sales and margin growth in the urban remodeled stores.
As for the Pharmacy dominant cluster we are focused on re-merchandising stores that are shopped primarily for pharmacy and related products.
And we've seen exciting results from our first wave of test stores that we completed late last year demonstrating that it is possible to significantly reduce SKU comp inventory while growing sales and margin.
We are being very careful and deliberate to find the right balance.
We're conducting lots of customer research so we'll test this format longer than others.
We're going to be expanding the tests to an additional group of stores in the second half of this year and we hope to scale the model beginning in 2012.
And as you know across our Retail chain we have targeted $1 billion inventory reduction for 2011.
And our efforts are gaining traction but I would also note it is not at the expense of customer service.
We've already achieved a $225 million reduction in inventory in Q1 putting us well on track to achieve our $1 billion goal for the year.
As for our real estate program we opened 106 new relocated stores and one specialty store.
We also closed 13 Retail pharmacies resulting in 44 net new stores in the quarter.
We are on track to open approximately 150 net stores for the year and deliver Retail square footage growth of 2% to 3%.
Now before turning it over to Dave I want to touch on MinuteClinic for a minute.
Since its inception our MinuteClinic nurse practitioners have now provided care to more than 9.4 million patients and we continue to see healthy growth in the business.
With the higher levels of flu-related illness this year patient visits were up 24% on a comp basis in the quarter.
We've made progress on reducing our dependency on seasonal-related acute illness by providing a variety of non-acute care services including convenient health condition monitoring for patients with diabetes high cholesterol and hypertension.
We're also developing a wellness model with a focus on chronic disease management.
And during the quarter we launched our sports physicals campaign our Facebook page and added 2 new services vitamin B12 injections and HPV vaccinations.
We opened 8 new clinics in the quarter and we're on track to add about 100 clinics annually over the next 5 years which will position us well to play an important role in providing care to the 32 million newly insured beginning in 2014.
So with that I'll turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide a detailed review of our first quarter financial results.
I'll also review our 2011 guidance for the full year and provide guidance for the second quarter.
Let me first begin by talking briefly about our capital allocation.
Enhancing shareholder returns remains a high priority for us and our strong cash flow outlook should enable healthy growth in dividends and value enhancing share repurchases.
In the fall of last year I laid out the significant cash generation capabilities of the company over the next 5 years and the discipline we will utilize when deploying the substantial cash we generate to achieve the highest cost return for our shareholders.
Based on achieving our 5-year growth targets there could be approximately $30 billion available to enhance shareholder returns over that time frame.
Recall that we set a targeted dividend payout ratio of approximately 25% to 30% by 2015.
Early this year we took the first step towards this goal by raising our quarterly dividend by 43%.
Based on our expectations this year this implies a payout ratio for 2011 of between 19% and 20% so we have taken a big first step but there's still plenty of room to continue to grow the dividend.
We'll continue to use the additional cash to invest in high ROIC efforts and apps in internal projects perhaps $3 billion to $4 billion on average of annual value enhancing share repurchases could be executed under normal conditions.
Of course the amount of free cash we will generate annually is expected to accelerate with our earnings in 2012 coupled with continued improvements in working capital management.
We are targeting an adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio of approximately 2.7x and this year at a minimum we expect to complete a $2 billion buyback authorization the financing of the Universal American Med D acquisition and the refinancing of our upcoming 2011 debt maturities all while maintaining our target capital structure.
So let me summarize our capital allocation for the first quarter.
First we paid a dividend of more than $170 million to our shareholders.
Additionally we repurchased 14.2 million shares at a cost of approximately $467 million for a little less than $33 per share.
So we are well on our way to completing the $2 billion buyback authorization this year.
Between dividends and share repurchases we returned over $638 million to our shareholders in the first quarter.
Given our strong free cash flow outlook our ability to return significant value to our shareholders should continue.
As Larry said we expect to generate between $4 billion and $4.2 billion of free cash flow this year.
And in the first quarter alone we generated $1.6 billion a $900 million increase over the same period last year.
We've made great progress on our inventory initiative and you can see the results and improvements we've made in accounts payable and inventory on the balance sheet and in our strong cash flow.
Both DPO and inventory days within the Retail segment were approximately one day better than the end of the year last year.
Gross capital spending during the quarter was $309 million down from $401 million last year mostly due to the timing of store construction costs which will be more back-end loaded this year.
Given sale-leaseback activity of $11 million in the first quarter our net capital spending was $298 million.
Turning to the income statement.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.57 for the quarter $0.01 above the top end of our guidance range.
GAAP diluted EPS came in at $0.52 per share.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the first quarter increased by 9% to $25.9 billion.
Drilling down by segment.
Net revenues grew by 18% in the PBM to $14 billion.
The majority of the increase from last year was driven by the addition of the Aetna business to our book.
PBM Pharmacy network revenues in the quarter increased 22% from 2010 levels to $9.4 billion while Pharmacy network claims grew by 19%.
Total mail choice revenues increased by 11% to $4.5 billion while mail choice claims expanded by 13%.
Our overall mail choice penetration rate decreased by approximately 75 basis points versus last year to 24.1%.
This is also largely driven by the addition of Aetna.
Aetna had a significantly lower mail penetration rate so it had a dilutive effect on our overall mail choice penetration.
In our Retail business we saw revenues increased by 4.4% to $14.6 billion in the quarter within our guidance range.
This increase was primarily driven by our same store sales increase of 2.6% as well as net revenue from new stores and relocations which accounted for approximately 190 basis points of the increase.
Pharmacy revenues continue to benefit from the incremental prescription volume associated with our Maintenance Choice product.
Maintenance Choice had a net positive impact of 170 basis points on our Pharmacy comps this quarter.
A higher generic dispensing rate negatively impacted pharmacy revenue growth.
Turning to gross margin.
Compared to the first quarter of 2010 we saw enterprise-wide margins shrink by approximately 160 basis points to 18.4% slightly better than our expectations.
Within the PBM segment gross margin was down about 205 basis points.
This mainly reflects the price compression associated with contract renewals including the one-year extension of the FEP contract which became effective in September of last year.
It also reflects the impact of the addition of the Aetna business.
Partially offsetting this was the positive margin impact from the 340 basis point increase in the PBM's generic dispensing rate which grew from 70.4% to 73.8%.
Gross margin in the Retail segment was 28.4% down only 10 basis points from last year.
It was negatively impacted by continued pressure on Pharmacy reimbursement rates.
The growth in Maintenance Choice was compressed as Retail gross margin that helps the overall enterprise and the continued shift in our mix of business towards Pharmacy.
These negative factors were mostly offset by increased generic dispensing rate with Retail GDR increasing by 310 basis points to 75.2% the benefits we are seeing from various front-store initiatives and increased store brand penetration.
Overall operating expense improved by approximately 75 basis points as a percentage of revenues versus last year's first quarter again in line with expectations.
The PBM segments SG&amp;A rate improved by approximately 35 basis points to 1.7%.
This is primarily due to expense leverage gain by the addition of the large Aetna contract which was partially offset by the cost related to the streamlining initiatives of about $0.01.
The Retail segment also saw improvement in SG&amp;A leverage.
Its ratio improved by approximately 25 basis points to 20.9% more or less in line with our expectations.
Within the Corporate segment expenses were $147 million or less than 1% of consolidated revenues in line with last year.
The increase in expenses primarily related to higher payroll and benefit-related costs increases in depreciation and legal costs.
With the change in gross margin more than offsetting the improvements in SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales operating margin for the total enterprise declined by about 85 basis points to 5.1% better than expected.
Operating margin in the PBM was 2.8% down about 170 basis points while operating margin in the Retail business was 7.5% up about 15 basis points.
Our EBITDA per adjusted claim was $2.39 in the quarter.
The decline was primarily driven by the addition of a large Aetna contract as well as the impact of contract renewals including the FEP extension.
Retail operating profit which makes up about 2/3 of the company's overall profits achieved continued healthy growth increasing approximately 7% and exceeding our guidance range.
PBM profits decreased 26% but were slightly better than our guidance range.
This decline includes the streamlining expense as well as the pricing compression associated with FEP and other renewals.
Going below the line on the consolidated income statement.
We saw net interest expense in the quarter increase by approximately $7 million to $134 million again in line with our expectation while our effective income tax rate was 39.4%.
Our weighted average share count was just over 1.37 billion shares.
As I mentioned earlier we did repurchase approximately 14.2 million shares during the quarter.
Now let me touch upon our guidance for the full year 2011.
We are reaffirming our guidance for the year.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $2.72 to $2.82 while GAAP diluted EPS is anticipated to be between $2.52 and $2.62.
These estimates assume the completion of the $2 billion share repurchase authorization this year as well as the inclusion of the Universal American Med D business.
Consistent with our previous statements we expect PBM revenue growth of 23% to 26% and operating profit to decline by 5% to 9% for the year.
For the Retail segment we expect revenue growth of 4% to 6% same store sales growth of 2.5% to 4.5% and operating profit growth of 6% to 8%.
So our world-class Retail drugstore chain which makes up again about 2/3 of the company's overall operating profit and EBITDA is expected to achieve strong growth this year and continued healthy growth for many years to come.
I won't go into the rest of the details underlying the high level EPS ranges as our full year guidance was laid out on our last earnings call.
Those details are reaffirmed here with only a couple of minor exceptions.
With the closing of the Universal American transaction that had taken place 2 months earlier than planned we'll incur additional interest expense to fund the deal.
I'm not changing the interest guidance but I'll point out that our expectation is for the interest expense to come in closer to the top of the $560 million to $570 million range.
This will be offset to some degree within adjusted EPS by an expected increase in amortization for this field.
Our expectation now is that consolidated amortization will be approximately $460 million for the full year.
And of course we also expect to see an increased amount of adjusted claims due to the earlier timing.
Turning to the second quarter.
We expect to deliver adjusted EPS from continuing operations in the range of $0.63 to $0.65.
GAAP diluted EPS is anticipated to be between $0.58 and $0.60.
Growth in enterprise-wide revenues is expected to be between 10% and 12%.
For the PBM segment we expect operating profit to decline by 23% to 26% and revenue growth of 23% to 26%.
Like the first quarter gross margin in the second quarter is expected to decline significantly due to the impact of the renewal pricing on FEP and other contracts and the addition of the Aetna contract and the streamlining initiatives.
We expect the performance in the PBM to steadily improve as we continue to move throughout the year for several reasons.
First we'll cycle the impact of the FEP renewal pricing by the end of August resulting in easier comparisons in September through December.
The profitability of our Med D business is generally back-end loaded and the Universal American Med D business will also be additive.
The net impact of the streamlining costs and benefit will improve as the year progresses.
As a result the first quarter was the weakest quarter of the year for the PBM and we expect the fourth quarter to be the strongest quarter of the year.
In fact the improvement from the third to the fourth quarter is expected to be the most dramatic sequential improvement in the year for the PBM.
For the Retail segment we expect another great year and another great quarter with our operating profit improving 9% to 11% for the quarter revenue growth of 3.5% to 5.5% and same store sales growth of 2% to 4%.
And with that let me turn it back to Larry Merlo.
Great.
Thanks Dave.
Well as I said we're pleased with our start to the year and we are certainly very focused on ensuring that we execute well on our operating plan and achieve our financial targets.
So why don't we go ahead and open it up for your questions? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
Thanks very much for taking my question.
I was wondering whether it's really too early to talk at all about the selling season? Is there anything you can give us? I mean you talked about momentum and that the customers are responding very favorably to your combined offering.
Maybe you can talk a little bit more about that? Yes let me start Meredith and I'm sure Per will jump in here.
We just had our client formed I guess about 2 weeks ago.
We had about 800 of our clients there and I was very excited in terms of the level of interest in our products and equally important the level of satisfaction that our clients have in the services that we're providing to them.
So it was great to be able to hear that firsthand in an unfiltered way from our clients.
And I walked away very encouraged that they're looking for us to provide solutions for them and fill a void that no one is out there filling.
So there was lot of enthusiasm and a lot of engagement for what we're doing.
And at this time of the year as you guys probably know is sort of the real kind of high season for a lot of the contract negotiations that are going on out there.
So we have a number of important successful renewals under our belt already.
And we're kind of in the final stages of negotiations with a substantial number of customers both existing customers and potential new customers.
So that should play out over the next month or 2 to kind of to get to the finish line.
The dialogue is actually very positive.
Our team is doing a great job and the response we get from our customers from just both the PBM offering as well as the broader set of capabilities that CVS Caremark brings to the table is also very encouraging.
So I think we're off to a great start and I hope we can report more specific details to you later on in the year.
Right.
And then I just have one more question about upselling.
And I know that the incentive have changed a little bit for some of the account reps at the PBM.
Just maybe talk about what the process is to take an existing customer and upsell them? Is that something that can be done? Yes absolutely.
I mean we kind of instituted a management tool in the tail end of last year which basically kind of allows us to manage each account at the P&amp;L level.
So it gives us a good mechanism to really develop client-specific strategies in terms of the specific programs that are sort of applicable to all the customers out there.
And the sales organization has an incentive program to really kind of drive those results and that process is well underway and we have significant set of milestones in the course of the year to deliver incremental results as a result of that.
And Meredith from my perspective there are some analogies to be made in terms of what was done in the Retail business some years ago when the P&amp;Ls were introduced for field managers.
And being able to outline for any individual whether on the Retail side or the PBM side in terms of where there are opportunities to create a win-win because those opportunities identify savings for the clients for the payers and at the same time they see the benefits to the business and how that flows through to the P&amp;L.
So I think we're all very encouraged in terms of the level of reception that is being received by the sales teams.
Your next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
Just follow-up with Meredith.
I'd like to ask about Part D.
I think Larry mentioned second-largest provider and really the biggest share gain in the country this year behind Humana.
Now Per you talked about this being a fast growth market through 2020.
How do you think about share gain and going forward and how do you compare that to your own EGWP growth? I guess and how do you think about confidence in margins given your acquired dual eligible population? Yes there are several subsegments that you alluded to Larry the existing Caremark business as well as the Universal American business is very much focused on the auto signed business where you basically bid against the benchmark and you get assigned a low-income subsidy numbers as a result of that.
We believe with the combination of UAM and our distinct capabilities that we're in a good position to be very competitive and continue that process for the next several years.
The EGWP transition that you talked about is really sort of gathering steam over the next couple of years.
We had a couple of significant EGWP transitions at the beginning of this year and a number of big ones that are sort of in negotiation right now.
And we really kind of expect 2013 to be the real tidal wave of EGWP transitions from our existing customer base.
So those are major sort of transitions going on in our book but we are very much focused on that as both a transition aspect of our business as well as growth opportunity for the company.
Right.
And Larry I mean keep in mind also that this is a first big step with UA and as Per mentioned it's a growing segment.
And the fact that we just closed the transaction last week while we've had some meetings leading up to the closing and now it's all hands on deck with a focus on 2012 recognizing that the bids are due in another 30 40 days.
So that's the focus right now is.
It sounds like you're hoping to continue to gain market share there.
And I guess a follow-up on FEP there I know in February mentioned 3 contracts along with an integrated bid option we would hear sometime in the spring.
It seems like to me most likely here in early June.
Is that still a reasonable expectation? And then can you confirm that you would anticipate to be the sole vendor now in CalPERS given what's happened? I can tell you that with FEP the process is essentially concluded.
But as you alluded to I think we'll hear the final disposition of that before the end of the second quarter.
And then Larry in terms of CalPERS we can't comment beyond confirming that we were one of the other finalists during the initial selection process.
When do you hope to hear Larry? They haven't given us sort of a definitive timetable in terms of how they're going to wrap up this year's process.
Okay.
Very good.
Your next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> Larry a couple things.
Can you talk about pricing both in the PBM and Retail? On the PBM side do you think that you're trying to establish a new model obviously your French competitors are really trying to prevent it from getting established.
Do you think -- has that created that dynamic created more price competition in the last couple of years? And as the model is established and even though it's clear it's not going anywhere does that then lead to more rationality with regard to pricing? And then on the Retail side how happy are you with where your pricing is there specifically HBA OTC? John I'll start with the PBM question first.
I mean as we said pricing remains competitive but we believe rational.
And as I also mentioned there is a lot of excitement in terms of the unique products that we're bringing to market.
And as we move forward I believe that we'll see some stickiness with clients as a result of those unique offerings.
On the Retail side John I think there's a lot of noise out in the marketplace in terms of some cost increases that you're hearing from CPG companies.
We started the year probably comparable to what we've seen in the last couple of years in the way of cost increases.
But that has ramped up over the last few weeks in terms of both the number of cost increases that we're seeing as well as the magnitude of that.
And we will be looking to pass those on at Retail at the same time making sure that we stay true to our pricing strategies.
And as you know we do a lot of price shops in those core categories that you mentioned.
OTC HBA beauty and our goal is to always to make sure that we are pricing our products so that we maintain our strategy.
LLC</strong> Going back to the Med D.
Do you think that because you're introducing a new model that you had to be a little more aggressive than you'd like to either to retain business or in some cases to get new business and that becomes less of a need as the model is clearly established and very attractive to your existing base? There's no realtime about -- the Maintenance Choice offering is basically being [ph] by consultants that's a mail order offering.
And it doesn't really kind of change the trend in terms of the nature of the competition.
LLC</strong> All right by the order of magnitude Specialty growth in the quarter top and/or bottom line is there any general sense of how fast that business grew? Yes John.
We don't break that out other than to say that it's acknowledged that it's the fastest-growing component within Pharmacy.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
I guess my first question was on the PBM side of the business sort of the Retail and the mail script trends versus what we are looking for.
Retail was a little lighter mail was fairly stronger and I saw you pointed out in the press release that mail choice claim volume was driven by Aetna.
So just curious where the mail and the Retail script volume came in versus your expectations if it was lower or higher in either side what you're seeing there? I think one thing that you said I don't think there's no specific effect on Maintenance Choice driven by the Aetna contract.
Okay so I think in the press release you said mail claim choice volume was driven by Aetna contract.
There's nothing unusual about the Aetna trend though is what you're saying.
No there's not.
This is Dave.
The volume within the PBM segment both from a network perspective as well as a mail perspective was very much in line with our expectations for the quarter.
And going forward with respect to Aetna we certainly expect Maintenance Choice to be one of the growth drivers of the Aetna relationship long term but that's not something that's in the numbers right now.
Okay good.
Larry I think you mentioned seeing some stickiness as a result of Maintenance Choice is becoming apparent.
Can you expand on sort of what you're alluding to there? Well I think what -- and it goes back to the client conference that I alluded to that an awful lot of comments from those clients that have the Maintenance Choice benefit that they are extremely satisfied with the product that their members or employees are very happy with the service that it provides and they're seeing the savings as a result of it.
So we remain optimistic that we're going to see some stickiness from those clients that have adopted Maintenance Choice as we move down the path when their contract comes up for renewal.
Okay and then just last one Larry also in your prepared remarks you came out pretty strongly in defense of some of the things that have been said about the company relative to anti-competitive that are alleged.
Any update on when we might get some resolution on the FTC inquiry that's been going on? No.
You know what Tom we don't have a timetable on that and we have cooperated in every fashion in terms of providing written information documents as well as face-to-face interviews.
And we can't estimate the time frame or outcome of that other than the fact that we remain very confident in our business processes.
Tom let me just cycle back a little bit your question around mail choice and the penetration rate.
What we saw was contraction a bit in the mail penetration rate -- in mail choice penetration rate and that was only due because Aetna was now part of our book and it carries a lower mail penetration rate in total so it blends down the average.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Two questions.
The first relates to your Retail guidance.
So this quarter your sales were up 4.4% in total and EBIT grew up 6.4%.
So I guess I'm wondering what do you see improving within the P&amp;L that gets you to a higher profit growth rate in the second quarter on a similar rate of sales growth? Yes Matt I think we've got a couple of things going on.
First the Easter shift from Q1 to Q2 that's a higher margin business for us as you know.
And the second thing is we continue to see the traction of many of our initiatives that will support or maximizing our margin performance and at the same time reducing costs.
So is it feasible that gross margin turns as move through the year? Yes I mean I think the comments that Dave alluded to in terms of we saw in the first quarter margin down only 10 basis points.
There's a lot of things that supported that that we expect to continue as we go through the remaining quarters.
And my second question relates to the PBM business.
Can you talk about progress in your analytical processes and framework just to improve the predictability of that business if you would? Thank you so much.
Yes.
Let me start with that Matt and I think probably Per and Dave will want to tag onto that.
But we have done a number of things around it.
I'd put them under the heading of process related that allows us to have a more holistic view of the business in realtime versus managing components of the business and then looking at it on a quarterly or even in some cases on an annual basis for a more consolidated roll-off.
So we're doing a lot of those things in realtime that allows us to stay much more closer to the trends that exist in the business.
Yes this is Dave.
Matt late in last quarter in Q4 of last year and early this year we implemented some new tools that Per alluded to earlier that allows us to more deeply and specifically trend and understand the components of client profitability.
And additionally the added benefit from that tool is we now have -- that tool allows us to assign accountability deeper in the organization from a sales and account management perspective.
So those professionals are very aligned to managing their clients and offering opportunities to both save money for the client but also generate additional profit for us.
And just one follow-up question if I could.
Your expense performance to PBM was obviously excellent as your expense dollars were actually down on the revenue increases that you saw.
Was there anything unusual about the cost experience that you had or would you actually expect that momentum to build in the PBM? Well we did go through one phase of the streamlining work late last year which had to do with basically a reorganization where we took out some layers of management.
We made the organization flatter with greater sort of accountability and so on and that was a very good sort of reorientation both to save money but also to create just a much more efficient decision-making process in the business.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
The PBM revenues came in at the high end of the guidance range.
It sounds like that was driven more by the base business as opposed to the Aetna so I just want to confirm that.
And then on the Aetna contract even though it's early stages just curious if the $0.01 to $0.03 EPS accretion you originally expected still seems like the right range for 2011.
I'm not going to -- I can speak a little bit to the kind of transition we're in.
I mean we're going through a sort of staged transition of the whole Aetna relationship where in January we moved them over to our Retail contracts.
And just actually at the beginning of this month we turned on the Specialty mail dispensing for the Aetna contract.
And in August we will take on the mail order dispensing and then the risk indication [ph] will happen in 2012.
So it's following kind of the plan that we have to go through this staged transition processes.
As you probably know consistent with Aetna's own disclosures we ended up with slightly lower volume at the beginning of the year than we had anticipated and that Aetna had anticipated.
In part that's the result in the Med D business and that's obviously lowering the outlook a little bit but it's not to limit here as far as the year is concerned.
Okay so you're still on track for the accretion you expected at the bottom line? Okay.
All right.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Morgan Stanley.
Per on the PBM if you're looking at the Maintenance Choice offering you're saying it's offering about 2% to 4% savings for payers is that versus straight mail? And I'm just curious what are the clients saying who are not adopting Maintenance Choice right now? Well Maintenance Choice -- I'll just start with the latter part of your question Maintenance Choice works obviously very nicely for plans where there is a significant penetration of the CVS Retail stores.
So that's sort of the -- that's kind of the core target for us where we can give the members the added flexibility of using CVS Retail for the members as a complement to the mail order pharmacies.
And whether customers adopt Maintenance Choice or not in a given year is in part driven by the savings.
And the savings are obviously determined by the plan design they already have but it's also determined by the other priorities that they're working on in terms of their overall benefit programs.
So many times they are interested in it but they have so much going on that they can't do it this year.
They will defer it to the next year and that sort of things.
So it's an ongoing process to really explore the appropriate timing and the economic benefits of the client.
It isn't just one sales call that leads in a yey or ney.
It's a process and sometimes they go fast sometimes they take a little longer.
But overall their reception and the interest level continues to be very very high in the Maintenance Choice offering.
And Mark I think as we go forward and we shared some numbers this morning in terms of not just client savings but consumer savings in terms of their out-of-pocket expense as well as what it's doing for adherence and there is a downstream benefit to improving the health of the members or the employees.
So we have an opportunity as we move further and have more and more data that demonstrates the value that we're bringing through lowering costs and improving health.
I think that we have an opportunity to make it even a more compelling product.
And 630 clients what percentage of your book is that right now? We are just shy of 8 million members in our books approximately with that and they're around 6 million to 8 million [ph].
So 40%.
So Mark we've said over time if you look at the addressable population where we think Maintenance Choice is a great opportunity for clients that we could double the client base that adopts that product.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Kemp Dolliver with Avondale Partners.
LLC</strong> My question relates to the new product you're going to roll out for Specialty the Specialty medical benefit next year and could you just talk briefly about how it solves that problem of the claims that go through the medical benefit because that 50% statistic I think has been around for a decade despite everyone's efforts to penetrate it.
So that's my first question.
Yes it's a good topic Kemp.
So there are basically -- kind of 2 important components to what we're trying to do there.
One is to create a sort of a decision support tool for the oncologist to really help them understand and navigate through the different pathway alternatives that are available to treat a particular type of cancer.
So that's the kind of -- that's the computer-based application that allows the physician to basically find the appropriate treatment options for a given patient.
The second component has to do with the financial incentives for the physician.
And part of the problem in that area as you may know is that this decision's basically buy the drug they inject them in the clinic and then they bill the medical plan.
Many times that creates sort of an incentive for the physicians to go to the more expensive drugs when there are less expensive drugs that could be just as appropriate from a clinical standpoint.
So we have set up a sort of an incentive compensation system that really rewards the physicians for picking the most cost-effective solutions.
And that is a true up at the end of each quarter where we look at how the physicians really kind of followed the cost-effective guidelines that are really proposed by the decision support system.
And then we provide essentially an incentive compensation arrangement to reward them if they have followed the more cost-effective choices to better align the payer incentives with the physician incentives.
LLC</strong> Great.
The second question relates to your progress on inventory reduction this quarter.
What actions specifically resulted in that progress? Yes.
Kemp it really goes back to the plan that we outlined at the beginning of this year that part of it is leveraging some technology that we implemented or completed last year that would allow us to reduce our dependency on safety stock as well as better visibility into the business that allows us to make some process changes.
And so we're off to a great start and everything is working as we planned it.
Your next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking my questions.
Larry I was really glad to hear your spirited defense of I guess both the business as combined and also against your detractors.
I guess I wanted to know as we get into the heart of the selling season what we've seen traditionally is some of these special interests.
We see a lot of stories and news.
I've been down to Florida last year and I think they ran a whole expose on your bad practices.
So I guess Wal-Mart faced this type of pressure back 2 years and hired a guy named Leslie Dach and really kind of nipped it.
Now what are you going to do as you get into the selling season to make sure what I think is -- it looks like it could be a good one that these people don't do what they've done the last couple of selling seasons and really up the pressure? Well Scott I'll answer that question in 2 parts.
First is as we've alluded to a couple of times we had an opportunity to talk with our clients get the clients informed about this.
I think that there was some intrigue.
I can tell you talking to a lot of the clients firsthand they were absolutely focused on -- we have some of those same things that go on in our businesses.
We know how that works and we're focused on the solutions that you're bringing for me as a health planner or as an employer.
So I did not sense a great concern among clients as long as we're doing the things that are helping them manage costs and improve health outcomes.
Part 2 to that is I do think we can do a better job of telling our story to the various stakeholders about the products and services that we are bringing to market.
And as we've mentioned many times how they're improving the health of those we serve and lowering costs.
So I'm sure you saw the announcement that we made a few weeks ago that we've made some organization changes that bring corporate communications government affairs health care strategy under one umbrella that is being led by Helena Foulkes.
And I believe that she will lead a renewed focus in terms of how we'd be a little more proactive in terms of telling our story recognizing that we are now getting tremendous data about the value that we're bringing.
And we don't have to talk about it in a qualitative fashion.
We can go out and talk about it in a very quantitative fashion and you're going to see us do more of that as we go forward.
Inc.</strong> That's great color Larry and I look forward to seeing those changes over the next 6 months.
I mean anyway second question is to the front end on Retail.
I think there was obviously an Easter calendar shift that took that down a little bit.
But I wanted to explore the idea that maybe inventories in the first half of the quarter were not exactly where you wanted it to be and maybe you corrected it at the end.
Any comments on that? And do you feel like the inventory positions you have at Retail are correct? Yes Scott.
Let me comment on that because that is an important metric that we're tracking as part of our inventory plan.
And I can tell you that our metrics are on target in terms of our service levels to the customer.
If we look at it compared to last year it is a few basis points less than it was a year ago.
However if we adjust for some of the supplier issues that are out in the marketplace in the form of recalls and some product availability issues we would actually be in a better position than we were a year ago.
Inc.</strong> And do you feel like that was consistent through the whole quarter or do you think it improved at the end? No I think that was pretty consistent throughout the quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Larry I agree your PBM results should be much better in 2012 but the growth rate will still lag that of your competitors by what should be a considerable margin and that may continue to weigh on the valuation here.
I guess is the message here that the board is okay with the valuation discrepancy relative to the group? Or is there some breaking point you can point to that shows the board is sensitive to this? Well Bob let me reiterate that the board certainly supports the operating plan that we have and that we have been transparent in terms of outlining our priorities and how we're going to get there.
And we'll continue to report on how we're doing against that.
And we are confident that that will deliver the financial results that everyone is looking for.
And as long as we continue to execute against that plan there's really no reason to consider any alternatives.
Well I guess given that level of optimism and the cash flow numbers you've thrown out there I mean how is it possible the buybacks are not more material today versus 5 years from now? Well I think -- this is Dave.
I guess if you look over the next 5 years what we have from a cash flow perspective a significant opportunity to both increase the dividend and do what we consider value enhancing share buybacks at very significant levels.
I would say that if you look through 2011 we're in the process of doing several things.
One is we had completed the $2 billion authorization.
We've just now funded the acquisition of the Universal American Med D acquisition and then finally we have some debt maturities coming available later in the year that we're going to address.
So all in the spirit of also being very focused to our adjusted debt-to-EBITDA ratio our target capital structure of 2.7x.
That's very important that we maintain that level such that it gives us nice access to both the commercial paper market and to the sale-leaseback market.
That's also a source of funds for us to finance the company.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
The front end Retail front end comp in the quarter and just it looks like you're gaining some share in the pharmacy.
I'm just interested on what your thoughts are on the front end growth and the front end share performance and any initiatives you have to improve the front-end sales growth of the business.
Well Eric I mean as we mentioned we continue to pick up share in the front end.
We acknowledged some of the headwinds that we saw in the first quarter with the shift in Easter as well as the comparison to the grand reopening events of Longs last year.
We're continuing as we've talked many times and we touched a little bit on the clustering initiative that's underway.
But we've also talked about how we continue to use ExtraCare in a way in which we can drive profitable growth acknowledging that the customers continue to look for value.
We don't see that changing.
And we're not going to chase sales that don't have a flow through and we continue to look for ExtraCare to be the driver to do that.
And so the kind of core 1.5 front end comp in the quarter that's kind of in line with what you're looking for.
Is that sort of what we should expect to see sustained through the year? Is that kind of what the front end should do in this type of environment? Well I think there'll be some ebbs and flows Eric within that based on seasonality and comparisons to last year.
And then the second question in that area is I just wanted to be clear as a question earlier on the subject but with the inflation coming from your suppliers how do you expect that to play out relative to your gross margin as you go through the year? Well Eric as I mentioned we expect to pass those increases on at Retail.
We will make sure that through our price shops and in the tools that we use to manage pricing in the front end that we stay true to our strategy.
But we believe that it will have a neutral impact to our gross margin for the year.
Okay.
Perfect.
And your final question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
I guess just a couple of quick follow-on questions.
Larry or Per can you talk about the upsell can you maybe talk about how you get paid for that? Are you seeing any of your customers now asking for you to take any kind of risk metrics in the marketplace where you're perhaps sharing in some level of the savings? Or is it a direct increase in the amount or willingness of them to increase the profitably? Maybe just help me to understand that.
And then secondly Larry I know you commented that '12 obviously is going to be a better year for everyone.
But I would think that with CVS Caremark being the largest purchaser of generics in the United States today you should have some kind of advantage versus both your Retail and PBM counterparts around any products that maybe there will be limited availability or even using some of your pricing power.
So can you maybe talk a little bit about how you anticipate generics and generic pricing and whatnot as we start thinking about '12.
So Lisa let me take the generic question and then Per will take your first question.
So as you think about generics I think everybody knows the variables that come into play in terms of the exclusivity periods that the number of suppliers in terms of when we've really hit the sweet spot acknowledging that generics are good for our business are good for the consumer they're good for the payer.
And from an acquisition cost point of view we believe that we maximize our leverage when there are 3 suppliers at the marketplace.
So Lisa on the risk question I do think that that's going to be a growing dimension in terms of how we work with customers going forward.
As we gather more and more outcomes data from a number of these programs that we now have in place and we have sort of a strength and confidence in the actual results that we can deliver to customers and the health care savings that they will result in we do have the opportunity to enter into interesting share gain type of arrangements that can both help the client and benefit ourselves.
So I would expect that to be an expanding part of our repertoire even though today it's not a major percentage of our business.
Okay and then just going back your comment Larry of around 3 suppliers around the product.
So that's your sweet spot.
If there's more is that still okay or if there's less I mean is there any kind of equation we can think about if 3 is the best is there a time when if there's 10 suppliers that the product the profitability would be the same or less than the branded? Is it ever less than the branded? We just want to try to get our head around this as we think about this going into next year.
Lisa this is Dave.
Just in general once you hit the 3-supplier mark that's typically the best.
I don't think -- expanding it maybe improves it marginally but it doesn't impact it greatly after that.
Okay.
Well this is it.
Thank you for your time this morning.
We appreciate your interest as well as your questions and that concludes the call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's CVS Caremark first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CVS Caremark Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday August 4 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Nancy Christal.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm here with Larry Merlo President and CEO; Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO; and Per Lofberg President of our PBM business.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder we posted slides and supplemental financial schedules on our website this morning and summarized the information on this call as well as some key facts and figures around our operating performance.
This morning we'll also discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our company's performance namely free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
As always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call.
Please note that we expect to file our Form 10-Q by the end of day today and it will be available through our website at that time.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation we'll make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly through these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and that you review the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements in our recently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Nancy and good morning everyone.
I am very pleased with our second quarter results which came in at the high end of our guidance.
We reported adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.65 with the PBM segment in line with our expectations and the Retail segment exceeding our expectations benefiting from solid expense control and higher-than-expected generic utilization positively impacting our gross margin.
Additionally we generated more than $800 million in free cash flow this quarter and $2.4 billion year-to-date.
So we are very confident that we will generate between $4 billion and $4.2 billion for the full year.
Now taking into account our solid year-to-date results and our confidence in the remainder of the year we are narrowing the 2011 guidance range.
We now expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of between $2.75 and $2.81 compared to our previous guidance of $2.72 to $2.82 and Dave will provide full details on our guidance during his financial review.
Now before getting into the business update I want to give you our perspective on the recent PBM industry news.
Many of you have been asking about the implications of 2 of our largest peers combining into one company what this might mean for CVS Caremark and the competitive landscape in the prospects of that transaction obtaining FTC approval.
Now I'm not going to comment on the regulatory implications of other company's acquisition announcements.
We'll certainly leave that up to the regulatory agencies.
But assuming the proposed transaction is completed I am more confident than ever that CVS Caremark can and will effectively compete in this vibrant industry.
That's because we believe that our suite of assets uniquely positions us to assist payers in controlling costs while enhancing member access and improving health outcomes.
And with the evolution of U.S.
health care to more consumer-directed care our multiple consumer touch points make us best positioned to promote cost-effective and healthy behaviors.
And the success that we're having in both the 2011 and '12 selling seasons clearly demonstrates that our model is resonating with payers.
So I'm confident that we can continue to gain share add value for our clients and their members and deliver healthy long-term returns to our shareholders.
So with that let me turn to our business update and I'll start with the PBM and address our progress on each of the 5 key elements of our PBM plan for growth that we outlined earlier this year.
The first key element of that plan is to achieve continued momentum on new business wins and client retention.
As you know we had a terrific 2011 selling season highlighted by the landmark long-term contract with Aetna and we also had solid retention at more than 96%.
And the 2012 selling season has also been very successful to date.
More than 50% of the contracts scheduled for renewal for '12 has been completed which is right in line with where we were last year at this time and our retention rate stands at 98%.
Our renewals include the $4 billion FEP Retail contract AT&amp;T and General Electric among others.
Now we've also had some significant wins.
As of mid-July on a 2012 impact basis we've won $4.8 billion in net new business including the FEP mail and specialty contracts CalPERS in the state of Hawaii.
Now in addition to the $4.8 billion in net new wins the PBM contracts associated with our Universal American business that we just acquired plus Universal American's MAPD business are expected to contribute about $5.5 billion in incremental revenue in 2012.
So as we sit today we'll see net new '12 revenues in excess of $10 billion.
And while many of the largest contracts out for bid in 2012 have been decided there are still opportunities for new business and we will certainly keep you posted on our progress.
So obviously we're all very pleased with the progress that we've made in both the '11 and '12 selling seasons and our significantly improved client retention rate.
And as we said on our last Analyst Day we're focused on retaining and adding lives while maintaining a rational pricing strategy.
That's because we believe that driving the top line will offset the usual margin compression associated with renewals in this sector and will be an important component of successfully driving our operating profit growth over time.
Now the second key element of our PBM growth plan is to continue to develop and upsell our unique clinical offerings and we've made a lot of progress in this area.
For example our Pharmacy Advisor program for diabetes that was launched in January now has 11.2 million active members with another 1.3 million members committed for 2011 implementations.
So we'll have approximately 12.5 million active members by year end and we have an additional 700 000 members already committed for next year.
We're also excited about our ability to offer Pharmacy Advisor to Aetna's 8 million commercial lives as they begin the migration to our systems in 2012.
Since the launch we have delivered over 370 000 live counseling messages to members and these messages are having an impact with positive trends emerging in key adherence and gaps in care measures.
We expect to build on our experience in '11 and launch Pharmacy Advisor for 4 key cardiovascular conditions in 2012 and we'll continue to expand to other conditions over time.
The third key element of our plan to aggressively drive growth in mail choice and generics.
Our Maintenance Choice population now totals 655 clients representing 8.2 million lives committed to implement by January 12.
And this number includes recent contract wins opting for Maintenance Choice including CalPERS along with other employer segment wins.
We continue to see a shift toward new clients as well as former voluntary mail programs adopting Maintenance Choice.
In fact 54% of the lives adopting Maintenance Choice in 2011 came from voluntary mail plans compared to only 16% in 2009 and let me provide some additional interesting statistics.
For former mandatory mail clients adopting Maintenance Choice back in 2009 when the program was first initiated 90-day utilization has increased more than 250 basis points.
While mail to retail migration continues to grow in the second year of the program.
And I think that speaks to how members value this choice.
For former voluntary mail clients adopting Maintenance Choice again back in 2009 we have seen 90-day utilization grow from the mid-30s to more than 65%.
So there's no question that the Maintenance Choice product has been successful in broadening access while reducing costs and improving prescription adherence.
Now let me move on to generic utilization because we continue to encourage the adoption of plan designs to improve generic dispensing rates.
Approximately 230 clients representing about 6 million lives have adopted generic Step Therapy plans.
And clients with high-performance generic plan designs have seen a 360 basis point improvement in their GDR nearly 4x the increase across our book of business over the same time frame.
And given our strong alignment these generic Step Therapy programs translate into significant savings for clients and enhanced profitability for our business.
And we continue to enhance our Step Therapy offerings adding 6 new drug classes last month again helping to differentiate us in the marketplace and drive even more adoption.
The fourth key element of our plan is to focus on the high-growth areas Medicare Part D Specialty and Aetna.
Now as you know we completed the acquisition of Universal American's Med D business during the second quarter and the integration is well underway and the results this quarter met expectations.
Yesterday afternoon CMS released the low-income benchmark results for the 2012 Medicare Part D competitive bidding process.
And based on the bids we submitted we were below or within de minimis in all 33 of the 34 regions where we qualified for 2011.
And obviously we're very pleased with these results.
Now the total number of beneficiaries that will ultimately be enrolled in our PDP plans during the 2012 year will not be known until we find out specifically how many low-income subsidy members we are assigned for the '12 plan year along with learning the results of the open enrollment period at the end of the fourth quarter.
So more to come there.
But as we've discussed we view the Med D business as a significant growth opportunity over the next several years especially in light of the number of employers who may decide to shift their retirees to an EGWP program or simply into the open PDP marketplace.
Another area of significant opportunity is the rapidly growing Specialty Pharmacy sector.
And during the second quarter our Specialty revenues grew a very healthy 19.9% driven by healthy underlying growth as well as the addition of the Aetna Specialty business.
Now on our last earnings call I spoke about our new medical pharmacy management program that will be available to clients beginning in January of next year.
And the offering provides a comprehensive solution for oncology patients and providers in an area that typically falls under the medical benefit and has been largely unmanaged.
So we're fully engaged with our partner New Century Health along with a few candidates for pilot launches this year.
And we have seen significant interest from our broader client base for potential launches beginning in 2012.
The third high-growth area is capitalizing on the long-term potential of the Aetna contract.
Now the implementation phase is ongoing and we expect the systems migration to begin in 2012 and continue through Q1 of 2013.
We began dispensing specialty prescriptions from CVS Caremark pharmacies in April and that transition is essentially complete at this point.
And we recently began dispensing Aetna mail prescriptions through CVS Caremark facilities a transition that we expect to complete by year end.
Importantly the sanctions on Aetna's Med D business were lifted.
So they are once again free to market and grow their Medicare business and we are excited about the opportunities to support them in that regard.
Furthermore we continue to work closely with Aetna to build their messaging around their value proposition for 2012 and beyond.
Our goal is to help them service their clients and build their client base by providing innovative solutions that deliver low-cost high-quality care for their members.
So overall the Aetna relationship is progressing and going very well.
And then the fifth and final key element of our plan is to execute successfully on the PBM streamlining initiative.
And our efforts here are proceeding to plan and we continue to expect to deliver over $1 billion in related cost savings from 2011 through 2015.
And you may recall that our initiative is focused across 3 main categories.
The first is streamlining operations to improve productivity.
Second is rationalizing capacity and then the third is investing in technology.
So in regard to streamlining operations we completed several productivity improvement projects during the quarter.
These included enhancements to our Customer Care IVR system as well as the implementation of a new order entry system in the regional order centers that support our mail-order pharmacies.
With respect to rationalizing capacity we closed one call center during the quarter 5 specialty mail-order pharmacies and the evaluation of capacity across the business will be an ongoing process especially given the amount of new business we have won for 2012.
And then in regard to investing in technology we continue to make progress on upgrading our technology infrastructure.
The upgrades will enable rapid implementation of new and unique product offerings while allowing us to reduce costs over time.
And as I mentioned last quarter we concluded the first wave of platform migrations with 0 disruption to our clients and members.
And the work involved in the second wave of platform migrations is well underway and on track.
So I'm confident that the platform migration will be a win-win for both us as well as our clients.
So in summary we're pleased with the progress that's being made.
In addition to the anticipated benefits from this 5-point plan for PBM growth 2012 also begins the generic wave which will carry through the next several years with about $100 million of branded products coming off patent between now and 2016.
So I remain very confident that 2012 will be the year that our PBM breaks trend and demonstrates healthy operating profit growth.
We have the right people supported by the right technology and processes to deliver the full value of this business over time.
So with that let me turn to the Retail business which continues to grow in at a healthy pace and gain share.
Our same-store sales increased 2% in the quarter.
Sales came in at the low end of our guidance range due to higher-than-expected generic utilization as well as our disciplined approach to managing front store sales.
As we have often discussed we are relying on our ExtraCare loyalty program to drive profitable sales as opposed to what we call empty sales sales without a profit flow-through.
So while sales were at the lower end of our guidance range I'm pleased with our performance since we achieved higher front store margins in the quarter and a record second quarter retail operating margin.
Now front store comps increased 0.8% in the quarter.
As expected front-end comps were positively impacted by approximately 45 basis points due to the Easter shift.
We saw strength in a number of categories especially cold and allergy consumables store brands.
As a matter of fact store brand and proprietary products now make up 17.2% of front store sales in the quarter up 70 basis points from last year as consumers remain value conscious.
Our Pharmacy comps increased 2.6% with script comps up 1.9% and that is reflecting 90-day scripts equaling 1 script.
When you convert those 90-day scripts into 3 scripts our script unit costs increased a very healthy 4.2%.
And our pharmacy share in the markets in which we operate grew approximately 40 basis points versus the prior year.
Our Pharmacy comps were negatively impacted by approximately 170 basis points from new generics in the quarter.
And in addition Pharmacy comps benefited from the continued growth of Maintenance Choice which added approximately 160 basis points on a net basis.
Our Retail adherence program that we internally refer to as the Patient Care Initiative is now in its fourth year and it continues to deliver results that are a win for our patients and a win for CVS Caremark.
In the first half of this year alone our Pharmacy teams performed nearly 30 million adherence interventions across our store base and the results are pretty compelling.
With first-fill counseling patients are 15% more likely to get to the second fill.
With adherence outreach patients are 25% more likely to obtain their refill.
And with new script pick-up reminders 20% of scripts are picked up that may have otherwise been returned to stock.
So in combination these adherence initiatives are helping our patients stay compliant resulting in healthier outcomes.
Now let me update you on our store clustering initiatives which have helped fuel both the top and bottom lines.
We're now into the second year for the urban rollout and we have plans to complete more than 200 stores this year on top of the approximately 200 we did last year.
Our urban stores continue to post very strong results and our test earlier this year in California yielded especially exciting results.
So we expect California to be a key expansion market for our urban layout later this year.
As for our real estate program we opened 59 new or relocated stores.
We closed one resulting in 40 net new Retail stores in the second quarter and we remain on track to open approximately 150 net new stores for the year delivering Retail square footage growth of 2% to 3%.
Now before turning it over to Dave I also want to update you on our progress at MinuteClinic which continues to see healthy growth.
In fact in recent weeks we achieved a tremendous milestone surpassing 10 million patient visits since the company's inception.
In the second quarter MinuteClinic revenues increased a very strong 28% and we are on track to break even on an all-in basis by the end of this year.
We opened 31 new clinics in the quarter 39 year-to-date and we expect to add about 100 clinics annually over the next 5 years which should position us well to play an important role in providing care to the 32 million newly insured beginning in 2014.
So as we sit today we operate 598 clinics in 26 states in the District of Columbia.
And with this continued expansion MinuteClinic will increase its role as a collaborator in developing integrated health networks and accountable care organizations.
And over the past couple of years we have formed some valuable affiliations with a number of leading health systems.
Since the end of the first quarter we have added 5 strategic affiliations with Advocate Health Care and Advocate Physician Partners the Inova Health System Ohio Health Cleveland Clinic Florida and the Henry Ford Health System enhancing the high-quality affordable health care services provided to patients and communities across the country.
These affiliations encompass collaborations with health system medical directors clinical program development and eventual integration of electronic medical records.
So I'm very pleased with our continued progress at MinuteClinic.
So with that I'll turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide a detailed review of our second quarter financial results.
I'll also review our 2011 guidance for the full year and provide guidance for the third quarter.
I'll start with an update on our capital allocation program.
First we have paid approximately $340 million in dividends year-to-date.
And keep in mind that we raised our quarterly dividend by 43% back in January.
So based on our expectations we anticipate a payout ratio for 2011 of between 19% and 20%.
Second during the quarter we repurchased 13.3 million shares at a cost of approximately $504 million.
And year-to-date we have repurchased 27.5 million shares at an average cost of approximately $35.30 per share and we have spent approximately $1 billion.
So with about $1 billion left to go we are well on our way to completing the $2 billion buyback authorization for this year.
Now between dividends and share repurchases we have returned over $1.3 billion to our shareholders in the first half of 2011.
And enhancing shareholder returns remains the high priority for us at CVS Caremark.
Given our strong free cash flow outlook our ability to return significant value to our shareholders should continue now and well into the future.
As Larry said we expect to generate between $4 billion and $4.2 billion of free cash this year.
And in the first half of this year we have generated approximately $2.4 billion an increase of more than $1.5 billion over the same period last year.
Beginning last year we renewed our focus on enhancing working capital performance and as a result we are just beginning to see the true cash flow power of the company.
While adjusted EPS had decreased slightly year-to-date our free cash flow has increased a staggering 180% adding $1.5 billion in the first 6 months of this year.
This significant increase is driven primarily by improvements to our use of cash within inventory and accounts payable.
As you know across our Retail chain we set $1 billion inventory reduction target for 2011.
And I'm happy to report that during the second quarter we reduced our related inventories by another $325 million bringing the year-to-date total to more than $550 million and placing us more than halfway to achieving our $1 billion inventory reduction goal for the year.
You can see the improvements we've made in our accounts payable and inventory on the balance sheet and in our strong cash flow.
Inventory days within the Retail segment is more than 2 days better than it was at the end of last year and DPO has improved by 1.5 days.
So we are confident that we can meet our targets for 2011 while our teams lay the groundwork for additional improvements in 2012 and '13.
Year-to-date gross capital spending was $710 million down from $866 million last year mostly due to timing of store construction costs which will be more back-end loaded this year.
Given sale-leaseback activity of $11 million in the first half our net cap spending so far this year has been $699 million.
Turning to the income statement.
Adjusted earnings per share were $0.65 for the quarter at the top of our guidance range.
GAAP diluted EPS came in at $0.60 per share.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the quarter increased by 11% to $26.6 billion.
And drilling down by segment net revenues grew by 23% in the PBM to $14.6 billion.
The majority of the increase from last year was driven by the addition of the Aetna business to our book.
PBM Pharmacy network revenues in the quarter increased 28% from 2010 levels to $9.7 billion while Pharmacy network claims grew by 36%.
Total mail choice revenues increased 16% to $4.8 billion while mail choice claims expanded by 12%.
Our overall mail choice penetration rate decreased by approximately 330 basis points versus last year to 22.6%.
This decrease was driven almost entirely by the addition of Aetna and the Universal American Med D business both of which have lower mail penetration rates than our average book of business.
In the Retail business we saw revenues increase by 3.6% to $14.8 billion in the quarter.
This increase was primarily driven by our same-store sales increase of 2% as well as net revenues from new stores and relocations which accounted for approximately 150 basis points of the increase.
Pharmacy unit costs increased 4.2% on a 30-day supply basis.
Pharmacy revenues continue to benefit from our Maintenance Choice product.
As Larry noted Maintenance Choice had a net positive impact of approximately 150 basis points on our Pharmacy comps this quarter.
Additionally a higher generic dispensing rate negatively impacted Pharmacy revenue growth.
Now turning to gross margin.
The consolidated company reported 19.1% in the quarter.
While gross margin contracted 180 basis points compared to last year it improved 75 basis points sequentially versus Q1.
Within the PBM segment gross margin was down about 195 basis points versus last year but improved approximately 45 basis points sequentially.
The decline versus last year's second quarter mainly reflects the price compression associated with contract renewals including the one-year extension of the FEP contract which became effective in September of last year.
It also reflects the impact of the addition of the Aetna business.
Partially offsetting this was the positive margin impact from the 310 basis point increase in the PBM's generic dispensing rate which grew from 71% to 74.1%.
Gross margin in the Retail segment was 29.7% an increase of approximately 20 basis points from last year and approximately 130 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year's second quarter gross margin was positively impacted by increased generic dispensing rate with Retail GDRs increasing by 290 basis points to 75.6%.
The benefits from our various front store initiatives and increased store brand penetration.
These positive factors were mostly offset by continued pressure on Pharmacy reimbursement rates.
The growth in Maintenance Choice which compresses Retail gross margin but helps the overall enterprise and the continued shift in the mix of our business toward Pharmacy.
Overall operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by approximately 110 basis points versus the second quarter of last year.
The PBM segment SG&amp;A rate improved by approximately 5 basis points to 1.9%.
This was primarily due to the expense leverage gained by the addition of a large Aetna contract which was partially offset by costs related to streamlining initiatives as well as the cost related to the Universal American Med D acquisition.
The Retail segment also saw nice improvement in SG&amp;A leverage which was largely driven by store-level operating efficiencies and reduced legal expenses.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved by approximately 50 basis points to 21.4%.
And within the Corporate segment expenses were $162 million or less than 1% of consolidated revenues roughly in line with last year.
The increase in expense was primarily related to higher payroll and benefit-related costs and increases in depreciation.
And with the change in gross margin more than offsetting improvements in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales operating margin for the total enterprise declined by 65 basis points to 5.6% better than expected.
Operating margin in the PBM was 3.1% down about 190 basis points while operating margin at Retail was 8.4% up about 70 basis points and at a record high for us in the second quarter.
Our EBITDA per adjusted claim was $2.49 in the quarter up sequentially from the first quarter due to the seasonality of the legacy Med D business and the improving profitability as we move throughout the year partially offset by the addition of the Universal American business.
Retail operating profit which makes up more than 2/3 of our company's overall operating profit continued to demonstrate healthy growth.
It increased approximately 13% and exceeded our guidance range.
PBM profits decreased 23% which was at the high end of our guidance range.
And now going below the line on the consolidated income statement.
We saw net interest expense in the quarter increase by approximately $13 million to $148 million slightly higher than our expectations.
And as I noted at our last earnings call we incurred additional interest costs with the earlier closing of the Universal American transaction and the associated cash needs.
Additionally we placed $1.5 billion of senior notes a portion with a 10-year term and another larger portion with a 30-year term.
We decided to take advantage of the robust 30-year debt market and locked in long-term debt at historically low rates.
So the longer-term debt maturities increased our interest expense a bit but it was an opportunity that we didn't want to pass up.
Additionally our effective income tax rate was 39.2% and our weighted average share count was 1.36 billion shares.
Now let me touch upon our guidance for the full year of 2011.
As we said we've narrowed our guidance range.
The tighter range obviously reflects the fact that we're halfway through the year and our outlook remains optimistic.
Adjusted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in a range of $2.75 to $2.81 while GAAP diluted EPS is anticipated to be between $2.55 and $2.61.
We fully expect to complete the $2 billion share repurchase authorization this year and these ranges take this into account.
For the PBM segment we expect revenue growth of 23% to 24% and adjusted claims of approximately 895 million to 915 million claims.
This estimate reflects our lower expectation for utilization in the back half of the year.
This is consistent with the softer-than-expected utilization trends occurring throughout the industry.
We are also assuming incremental start-up costs for our significant 2012 new business.
As a result we're tightening the range of the PBM operating profit and now expect it to decline by 7% to 9% for the year.
Within the PBM we continue to expect the significant decline in gross margin partially offset by a modest improvement in operating expenses as a percent of revenues.
About half of this year's gross margin erosion is due to the addition of Aetna whose margins are lower than those in our typical book of business.
Furthermore our guidance includes approximately $100 million to $110 million or between $0.04 and $0.05 per share of PBM streamlining costs.
Now this is a slight change versus our prior expectations and merely reflects the shift of some expenses into 2012.
We still expect to incur expenses totaling approximately $200 million over the 2 years of '11 and '12 but more will occur in '12 than we previously thought.
So we now expect our EBITDA per adjusted claim to be approximately $2.90 for the year.
If we exclude Aetna our EBITDA per adjusted claim will be approximately $3.30.
Now for the Retail segment we expect revenue growth of 3% to 4% and same-store sales growth of 1.5% to 2.5%.
We've reduced our expectations for the top line growth in the stores as our GDR is now expected to be stronger than we had planned for the remainder of the year.
So while revenues will be adversely affected by this profit should benefit and we now expect operating profit growth of 7.5% to 9% in the Retail segment.
Gross margins now are expected to be relatively flat with moderate improvement in operating expenses as a percent of revenues given the deleveraging effect of higher generics.
For the Corporate segment we expect to see operating expenses in the range of $625 million to $640 million as we gain modest leverage against consolidated revenues.
So given all of this we expect to see a moderate decline in operating margin for the total enterprise.
Revenue is expected to grow by approximately 10.5% to 11.5% with a significant decline in gross margins partially offset by a significant improvement in operating expenses as a percent of revenues.
Now this is after intercompany eliminations which are projected to equal about 9.5% of combined segment revenues.
We forecast net interest of about $585 million higher than our initial guidance for the reasons that I noted earlier.
Moving on we expect a tax rate of approximately 39.2% and approximately 1.35 billion weighted average shares for the year as we execute our repurchases from the back half of the year to complete our current authorization.
We expect total consolidated amortization for 2011 to be about $460 million and when combined with depreciation we project approximately $1.6 billion in D&amp;A.
We still expect gross CapEx to be in a range of $2 billion to $2.1 billion.
This includes approximately $170 million of capital associated with the PBM streamlining project.
With sale-leaseback proceeds anticipated to be between $550 million and $600 million our net cap expenditures are expected to be in a range of $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion.
And as Larry said at the start we expect free cash flow to be in the range of $4 billion to $4.2 billion in '11 growing by over 20% versus last year.
Now as we've demonstrated so far this year we are keenly focused on enhancing our cash flow through solid working capital and CapEx discipline.
The working capital improvements we've achieved and continue to drive specifically within inventory and accounts payable will continue to fuel our free cash flow performance building upon our strong year-to-date results.
This performance is expected to yield solid cash flow from operations in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.6 billion for the year.
Now turning to the third quarter.
We expect to deliver adjusted EPS from continuing operations in the range of $0.66 to $0.68.
GAAP diluted EPS is anticipated to be between $0.61 and $0.63.
Growth in enterprise-wide revenues is expected to be between 10.5% and 12.5%.
For the PBM segment we expect operating profit to decline by 2% to 5% with revenue growth of 23% to 26%.
Like the first half of the year gross margin in the third quarter is expected to decline significantly due to the impact of renewal pricing on FEP and other contracts the addition of the Aetna contract and the streamlining effort.
However we will cycle the impact of the FEP renewal pricing by the end of August resulting in easier comparison throughout the remainder of the year.
Additionally we are expecting the normal progression of increasing profitability as we move into the third quarter in our Med D business.
And of course the net impact of the streamlining cost and benefits are expected to improve as the year progresses.
As a result the first quarter was the weakest quarter of the year for the PBM and we expect the fourth quarter to be the strongest quarter of the year.
And in fact the improvement from the third to the fourth quarter is expected to be the most dramatic sequential improvement of the year for the PBM.
For the Retail segment we expect another solid quarter with operating profit improving 6.5% to 8.5% revenue growth of 2.5% to 4% and same-store sales growth of 1% to 2.5%.
And so with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
And before opening it up for questions I wanted a couple of minutes just to talk about the timing of our 2012 guidance and our Analyst Day.
Now given the timing of our internal budget and planning cycle we typically have our financial plan in place late in the year for the upcoming year.
And as a result and as you know we provide guidance for the upcoming year on our fourth quarter earnings call in early February.
Now I have certainly come to appreciate that visibility to our initial guidance for the upcoming year is an important factor in your investment decisions.
So going forward our plan is to provide the upcoming year guidance to you in December once our plan is in place and earlier than we have historically.
Now I've also given a great deal of thought to the timing of our Analyst Day and I believe that it makes sense to reschedule our Analyst Day so that we can have a more complete discussion about our outlook for next year in addition to our usual deep dive on our strategies for long-term growth.
And I think that one without the other is going to result in a meeting that won't be as good as we can make it.
So instead of October 7 we will host our Analyst Day on the morning of December 20 at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in New York City where we will provide our 2012 guidance at that time.
And while I know this may cause some inconvenience regarding your schedules I hope you agree that this will allow us to have a more productive and successful meeting.
So once again our new date for the Analyst Day is Tuesday December 20 in the morning and we will send to you all the meeting details shortly.
So with that let me open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Larry Marsh from Barclays Capital.
Just really just a couple of quick things on the PBM marketplace.
I know you're not commenting specifically on the merger but big picture follow-up and Per at the Analyst Meeting last October cited growth opportunities in the PBM market led by Med D but also suggested direction of margins could be down given mix of customers and renewals as you've also communicated today.
Some would suggest that recent industry events may be confirming that overall view.
Do you still think that's the right directional commentary given the margin pull down we've already seen? And do you think a contributing factor of that is the additional reporting requirements to health plans for their MLR calculations going forward.
And then I have a quick follow-up.
Well just to the last part of your point there Larry I think it's way too early to really make any projections about what the impact of the MLR reporting is.
It's really just now beginning to go into sort of into practice.
So we're working with our health accounts to really provide the necessary reporting.
And in the first quarter of 2012 they will be required to provide that the MLR reporting of which Pharmacy will be a small component.
So time will tell what that really would mean.
So it's really kind of premature to talk about that now.
I do think that the macro trends that you alluded to in the early part of your question in terms of top line growth and earnings growth still is very much in play.
I mean we see continued opportunities to grow our revenues at a higher rate than we grow our profits and we don't really see any kind of -- any change to that outlook.
And Larry I think just adding one component to that.
We're focused and excited by the opportunities that we have to bring products and services to market that can make those lives more productive and profitable over the relationship that we build with that prospective client and that's what our focus is.
Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
Congrats on where you came in on the low income subsidy figures.
Now you've talked about the importance of touch points in the consumer and Med D obviously you're the #2 player in that marketplace.
But clearly some of your biggest competition are health plans some of whom are your important customers.
So in a world as you think about it of increased consumer touch points with more corporates perhaps moving their retirees to Part D how do you balance the 2? And is it your view that you'd rather be a direct PDP that running a service function for a health plan who has their own PDP? I believe we can really do both successfully Larry.
We support today probably somewhere around 50 health plans around the country for their Medicare Advantage and PDP businesses and we have as you alluded to pretty substantial PDP business ourselves with about 3-plus million retirees.
So in many ways both of those businesses rely on an infrastructure that is very dedicated to the Medicare marketplace and we have the scale to really build systems that are able to handle both of those market segments.
And I think both of them are going to be significant growth drivers for us going forward.
Our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC</strong> Larry 2 things I wanted to just drill down on.
One PBM positioning and marketing.
And then two on the front end a bit.
But on the first one if you look at the new landscape okay with the merger and then with the UNH moving in house how do you think the Caremark message and differentiation to the customer is different or is it better in the landscape we're moving to? Is it easier to get differentiation? Will your message be better or is it more difficult in that environment? I'm sure you've given that some thought.
Yes John.
I think we all believe that our model resonates very very well in the future landscape.
For all the reasons that we've touched on many times that you think about the evolution of the health care system to more consumer-directed care we have more touch points with patients than anyone else.
And our data is showing that we can better impact adherence and close gaps in care than anyone else.
And so we're excited with the prospects that we have.
And by the way I think that when you look at the success that we've had this year with our selling season that is certainly resonating with payers.
Just to kind of add one thing going back to Medicare that we spoke about a minute ago if you look at the Medicare business and the Medicaid business quite candidly which are both important growth segments if you look out over the next several years those 2 market segments really require a more open model than has been the kind of the case in the traditional PBM business where there is a lot of opportunities to create restrictive plans putting a lot of emphasis on mail order as the principal dispensing mechanism.
So I think we're very well positioned to deal with a much more sort of open and consumer-directed health care environment going forward.
LLC</strong> All right.
And then with respect to the front end look I think it's terrific to be disciplined.
You were clearly doing that.
Does there come a point at which when you look at the comp spread versus your competitors that the spread bothers you or it's indicative of maybe not share loss but not taking advantage of opportunity out there? Just talk about that the spread itself.
And then secondly I assume you'd say the reduction of inventory has not negatively impacted comps.
That's not a reason for the spread? Yes John.
Let me talk about the spread first of all because I think at the end of the day our results speak for themselves that we have margin expansion SG&amp;A leverage and operating profit expansion and growth.
So we certainly delivered the bottom line on the Retail side of the business.
And I acknowledged on our last earnings call that we are making a conscious decision to focus on profitable sales growth in the front end of our business versus chasing sales that would not have a margin flow-through.
And the second quarter we did just that.
We are using ExtraCare as we've often talked as our principal vehicle for executing that strategy.
I think if you look in the quarter you saw a couple of things.
ExtraCare examples like the gas car promotions which we view as being successful millions of $10 gas cards have been earned.
We have a program called Money Trashers which has resulted in the redemption of ExtraBucks increasing from 49% to 55%.
And I would point out that these are programs that provide instant gratification to the consumer.
You don't have to count points or track shopping trips to get a reward.
At the same time we're reducing our dependency on our circular.
And actually in the second quarter our year-over-year page count actually decreased 13%.
So we look at it as getting more share of wallet from our loyal customers and those sales are profitable sales.
Now we may be losing some cherry pickers along the way but those are largely as we know unprofitable sales.
So John I think back to your question about how do we think about it going forward we're constantly evaluating the success of our programs along with market conditions.
We'll make some tweaks where it make sense and where we see opportunities.
But we intend on staying disciplined to our philosophy of driving profitable sales.
And John in terms of your inventory question that is not having an impact on our in-stock levels or creating sales issues.
As a matter of fact when we look at our in-stock level versus the first quarter versus last year it's essentially on par.
And when you look at the out of stocks that we do have between 70% and 80% of them are attributable to supplier issues and those have been well documented out in the marketplace.
And at the same time we through our customer service metrics we track the consumer's level of satisfaction with being able to find everything that they're looking for.
And we have seen a dramatic reduction in out-of-stock complaints year-over-year.
So the inventory initiative is not having an impact on our sales performance.
LLC</strong> And just finally do you think food and gas inflation is -- you have a fairly broad demographic but do you think that's adversely impacting people's ability to spend in your stores? Well John I think we've always talked about ourselves as being recession resistant not recession proof.
And we believe the consumer continues to be wary and looking for value.
And we've seen evidence that where she has traded down from a premium product to a less expensive product.
And in some cases the store brands which has benefited the business.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill JPMorgan.
I had a couple of quick questions first on the PBM.
Per can you maybe just give us an idea of what's still left as far as opportunities go for 2012? Do you have a ballpark number of decisions that haven't been made that are obviously not your book of business? Well I'm not sure I can give you specific numbers.
But basically we're probably at the tail end of the season as far as really large customers are concerned.
There are still some out there that we expect will kind of make decisions within the next month or so.
Then the kind of the second half of the year we tend to shift into the renewals and the bidding on smaller accounts.
And we also have of course in the last quarter the open enrollment period for Medicare.
So those are going to be the growth drivers for the second half of the year.
And then just secondly when we look at some of the renewals AT&amp;T GE as you called out even my own organization we have heard that Maintenance Choice played a sizable role and the decision around maintaining the relationship with CVS.
Can you or Larry comment on what you're seeing around stickiness as it pertains to Maintenance Choice and how we should think about that going forward? And then I just had a quick follow-up for Dave.
Yes.
I can certainly start from my perspective and then Larry can add to it.
I do think that there is no question that this year we did get some significant competitive differentiation as a result of Maintenance Choice.
So either in terms of renewing customers that or even in some cases some of the wins that we achieved were in part related to Maintenance Choice.
You never know exactly the sort of the detailed equation why somebody makes a decision to go one way or another.
But clearly Maintenance Choice was a prominent aspect of the decision-making process in terms of the successes year.
And Lisa I've had a chance to spend time with many clients and we've talked about this very issue.
And I think what is resonating for many acknowledging  this program started in 2009 is we now have the benefit of being added for a couple of years.
And we can show in a quantifiable fashion the results of the program.
And it's saving money for payers and consumers and it's helping those patients stay more compliant with their meds.
So it's a win across the board.
And then just a clarification.
Dave when you talked about the streamlining shifting from '11 to '12 you talked about $0.04 to $0.05 can you tell me what you previously had in the guidance? I just don't have it in front of me.
So we can think about it from a modeling perspective.
And I think the second component that would be new around modeling would be any of the implementation cost for '12 now that their selling season has been better than expected.
Are they offsetting each other or are you seeing more of a benefit by shifting some of the streamlining to '12 versus '11? Yes Lisa that's a great question.
Previously our guidance was $1.15 to $1.30.
It is now essentially -- we lowered it a bit due to some of the subprojects.
While there's some puts and takes in all the different subprojects in general some of the near-term projects are costing a little less than we had originally estimated.
Yet some of the costs of the longer-term projects are just a little bit higher than what we thought.
But I would say in general from an offset perspective they more or less the implementation cost and the shift in expenses related to streamlining cost more or less offset one another.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly Credit Suisse.
Larry I would like to touch on the front-end comps again.
And I know you're talking about focusing on more profitable sales but I guess I'm just a little confused because when I look across the drug store industry today it seems like baskets up across the board because we have some inflation rolling in.
If that's true for you as well I guess it means that your traffic has been down.
And I guess the question is I mean obviously retailers don't want negative traffic.
You're saying you're focusing on more profitable sales.
Is that because historically you haven't been as focused on that or is it because you're seeing your competitors are being more promotional and that's how they're driving their traffic? I'm just trying to connect all the dots here.
Yes.
Ed I think the answer to that lies in the fact that we see an opportunity to do that again using ExtraCare.
And the fact that we believe that we can get a bigger share of wallet out of our most loyal customers which is going to have a more profitable sales segment to it.
I will tell you our traffic from the second quarter was flat.
It wasn't down.
And while we have seen -- while we've gotten notification of cost increases coming down the road we have not seen them be in effect in the second quarter.
So they are more second half related in terms of seeing the notification.
So inflation did not play a big part in our front-end numbers in the second quarter.
That said we are getting a bigger share of wallet from our best customers.
So as I mentioned earlier when John had asked the question there is no question that there's a fine line here and that we're constantly evaluating how the programs are doing and making tweaks where it makes sense and we'll continue to do that.
Okay.
And second question for you Larry and maybe I read this wrong or heard this wrong but you talked about growth in the PBM business and returning to healthy growth.
And I don't think I've heard you say healthy historically in the past.
Am I reading too deeply into this or do you feel better about this business going into next year than you did let's call it 6 months ago? Ed I think you're reading too deeply into that.
If I acknowledged in the ending comments we're certainly not going to talk about 2012 at this point but we will certainly be in a position in December to give a complete review of our outlook for 2012 at that point.
Okay.
And just last question for you.
Any thoughts on this whole dispute between Walgreens and Express Scripts? I know you've been down this road with these guys.
It doesn't seem to make any sense that they would want to go through next year without each other.
But I guess #1 do you see this as an opportunity for you on the current selling season because you're selling as a company that has some questions? And secondly do you think major clients care about losing a large pharmacy? With respect to the selling season keep in mind that the dispute if it isn't resolved won't really play out until 2012.
And I can't say that it's been a major factor in the discussions with both existing customers or the new prospects.
It hasn't had a major effect.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Two questions one very high level.
Have you received any feedback at all from any of your existing customers or potential customers with regard to how this potential merger might influence their future decisions? And then really 2 that are more specific what are your longer-term targets on with Aetna now on board the mail order penetration rate? What are you really trying to target there over the long haul? And then the last one that's a specific it's just the -- appreciate the color on the streamlining how that's shifting over in some of the smaller dollar items not rolling back but basically specifically what are the initiatives that you're looking at there that are moving around? Well I think with respect to the second part of your question about -- we certainly believe that there is significant room to expand the use of 90-day supply either through our mail-order pharmacies or the CVS retail pharmacies over the coming years and that's a win-win for us and for our customers.
So that will continue to be a focus for us in working with our customers to both create margin opportunity for us as well as cost savings for them.
And that's very much alive and well and I think we'll continue for quite some time.
I mean obviously I don't have any way to sort of kind of speculate about what our customers think about the proposed merger.
We obviously have a fair amount of -- we get questions about it and people are obviously curious to what this might mean and so on but we don't have any particular comments around that.
We feel very confident that our model is different increasingly different and will help us compete successfully regardless of what happens to the merger.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And the shifting of the streamlining cost any specific color on which items and as far as that's concerned.
Frank this is Dave.
Why don't I take that? Just maybe stepping back for just a minute.
I just wanted to make sure that people understand.
First of all we are very pleased with the progress that we have made within those efforts and we're very focused on making sure that we can deliver the results both this year and next year but importantly the $1 billion results over the next several years.
So we're highly confident in that.
Keep in mind that these streamlining efforts while we've talked about them in kind of major buckets there are literally tens of projects going on within each of these efforts and we're focused against them.
We have dedicated teams and personnel and objectives and targets associated with them.
So really this is a pretty immaterial move if you think about it in totality between where we think the actual expense is going to occur in the back half of the year versus kind of the first half of next year.
So this is just an immaterial shift between that.
So again I don't want people to read too much into that.
It's just kind of moving around within a few quarters there.
Our next question comes from the line of Neil Currie Dahlman Rose.
LLC</strong> I just wanted to follow up on that last question obviously and themselves the streamlining costs shifting to 2012 may be relatively immaterial.
But if you add to that the significant wins that you've got from the 2012 selling season and historically we found that in the initial period or initial particularly the first year of a new contract particularly sizable contracts they tend to be less profitable in the first year.
Does this directionally change your view on how quickly the PBM can show profit recovery? Previously when you spoke last October you talked about 5-year CAGR targets of between 9% and 11% operating profit growth for the PBM.
I was very encouraged to hear you say that you should see profit growth in 2012 but will these factors temper that profit growth in 2012 particularly? Yes Neil this does not change our outlook and our 5-year CAGRs.
And again we'll talk about 2012 in great detail in December.
But this does not change our view around our outlook.
LLC</strong> That's good to know.
I'm sure it doesn't change maybe the 5-year view but I'm just wondering whether it just pushes it out a little bit further the majority of that growth.
That's not how we're looking at it no.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci Lazard Capital Markets.
A couple of quick ones here.
I guess just on the margins on the retail side of the business we've obviously talked a little bit about the types of customers or the products that you're sort of targeting.
Is the margin increase more a result of the mix that you're seeing in the business as a result of some of your efforts or are you also doing some incremental things on the cost side as your revenues are a little bit lighter? Yes Tom it has more to do with the mix than it does with the cost side.
There are some cost benefits that we're seeing as a result of the inventory reduction initiative.
But it really has more to do with the former not the latter.
And then just I guess on the sales growth I'm sure there's always variations regionally as you look among your markets but is there anything that's unusually strong or unusually weak that we should think about in terms of specific markets across the nation in your stores? Yes Tom I would say that you always see variations across the country.
And we have pockets of strength pockets that aren't as strong and I think that that largely follows the unemployment situation.
So you can look at those markets that have been well documented with double-digit unemployment numbers and our sales performance there is a little weaker than many of the other markets.
So that's interesting.
So more macro as opposed to any other unusual moving parts with respect to specific markets? Yes that's a good way to look at it.
Okay.
And then last one just on the PBM side.
You mentioned the medical management and I guess you sort of highlighted some positive commentary there.
Can you talk any more granularly about the uptick you're seeing as you either win or renew business and you look out to 2012 and how many clients may be implementing anything in that respect? Well I think the basic issue there will opportunity I should say from that that we're focused on is that there is a growing number of drugs especially kind of in oncology but not limited to oncology that are large molecule injectable drugs that are reimbursed under the medical benefits as opposed in the PBM contract.
And a lot of our customers are seeing very high growth rates of those drug costs.
And so we are basically developing an approach for them to manage that and to basically realign the incentives to use more cost-effective treatments in those areas in conjunction with health plans that we serve.
I think it's a really important area to address in years to come especially as you look at the drug pipeline and the likely new drugs that are going to be expensive new additions over the coming years.
Are these things that are sort of being advertised to the customers for the first time or are they things that you're actually taking I guess -- you have as a part of renewals and wins and as you're thinking about the benefit designs and what you're going to do for customers in '12? Well it's an important part of the dialogue right now in terms of what the initiatives might be especially with our health plan customers in 2012.
And I'm not going to sort of make any specific comments on which plans or how many of them are going to adopt this program in 2012 but it's a very important initiative that I think pretty much all of our customers appreciate and are evaluating as part of what they like to get into to further control their health care costs.
Tom I think the point that Per just made is the key point that clients are looking at their traditional spend and they see that there are a lot of things that are being done to manage the cost escalations.
And they don't see some of those same things on the specialty and this brings a solution to the specialty side of the prescription market.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler from Goldman Sachs.
I'd just like to get a little are more color if possible if we essentially decompose the progression that you expect in the PBM from Q3 to Q4.
If you could try to quantify the relative importance of the different pieces most notably UAM and also FEP focusing specifically on how much better that gets sequentially.
Obviously you're cycling an easier compare but the dollars need to go up sequentially.
So as you move past that first anniversary how much less problematic does that contract become? Yes I think -- maybe I can just touch on at least conceptually because we don't kind of break those out in details.
But clearly overlapping the FEP contract at the end of August is an important factor.
As you know we had a fairly significant downdraft from a margin compression perspective associated with that renewal last year.
So that's an important factor.
Secondly if you look at now our Medicare Part D business as we entered 2011 first and foremost we grew a substantial number of lives in that business.
And so that business itself is always more profitable in the back half than the front half and so that is contributing to the ramp up in earnings in Q3 and Q4.
And then you turnaround and layer on top of that Universal American which again is very focused in -- is solely focused in Medicare Part D where the profits are solely in the back half versus the first half of the year.
So all those 3 factors are contributing nicely to the enhancements in the PBM profitability in the back half of this year.
[Technical Difficulty] And our next question comes from the line of John Ransom.
Inc.</strong> If we look at 2011 versus 2012 in the PBM what is the difference between your spending and your cost savings in '11 versus your spending and your cost savings in '12 on the rationalization program? At the end of the day if we look at '11 the costs outweigh the benefits.
In '12 we break that trend and the benefits outweigh the costs as we think about 2012.
Inc.</strong> I understand that.
Could you give us a number though is there a ballpark? We had calculated around $200 million of swing but I wanted to make sure that number was still in the ballpark.
John we'll be happy to give you some color on that as we approach the Analyst Day and we give our full guidance for 2012.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
All right.
Secondly when you did the FEP renewal you indicated that some government contracts are looking for pass-through pricing on generics now and not spread pricing.
How much a factor is that going to weigh on your margins as you reprice all your government contracts over time? Is that something we should be concerned about in the PBM side? Well it is I mean a phenomenon that is I think clearly playing out especially in the federal and the state government contracts.
And we certainly see that in some of the 2012 RFPs that have we have been working on.
But at least at this point it is primarily centered around that particular customer segment and so it will be a factor.
But we still feel confidently in the outlook that we've communicated.
And John we had talked I guess a few months back before the announcement on the FEP contract and we talked about the fact for the reasons that you mentioned that retaining the retail business we would see a step down in profitability certainly not to the degree that we experienced the end of last year and through August of this year with the one-year renewal.
And obviously the mail and specialty programs while they're based on a cost plus arrangement they're incremental to our P&amp;L.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly the big Aetna contract obviously that's a huge slug of revenue.
How do we think about if you can drive those customers into your stores obviously you replace a fulfillment margin of maybe 1% or 2% with a store gross margin.
How can you do that given that you're kind of working behind that now with those patients? How do you drive Maintenance Choice with the Aetna population? Well we basically worked with their customer-facing organization with our sales and account management leadership to develop proposals and sales collateral and value propositions that they can then take to their customers.
And in some instances we collaborate directly with them.
And in many cases we basically provide them with a backup material so that they can successfully make those cases when they are in conversation with their customers and prospects.
Inc.</strong> Is that more of a 2013 kind of late '12 2013 before we start to see any of shift or can you do it sooner? Well I think it will probably begin in 2012.
I can't really sort of give you any quantification of it but we began that process earlier this year.
And we've had a very sort of very productive collaboration with their customer-facing people over several months now to really put them in a strong position as possible to introduce these programs for the benefit of their customers and also for us.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Miller with William Blair.
I have a multipart question on the reimbursement outlook at Retail.
As we move into the generic wave how much of the upside in Retail gross profits Pharmacy profits do you expect to be able to hold on to and how much of that do you expect gets passed through or gets brought back to the payers? Yes Mark.
I mean that's a tough question to answer okay.
And I don't think we can put a number on that other than to say as we've talked that when you look at the generic wave and the benefits at Retail we really maximize our opportunities when there are 3 or more suppliers out in the marketplace.
And some of that reflects the decrease in the acquisition costs of the product.
So that's how we look at it.
And I think the dynamics of the marketplace haven't changed substantially.
If you look over the past generics have historically been productive for the client productive for the PBM and productive for the retailer.
And I think those dynamics still play out in the marketplace today and we see that continuing going forward.
With the present conflict between 2 other major players in the industry obviously the longer that goes the more things change.
But what's the likelihood that that benefits you think CVS stores not just in terms of potential sales gain but in terms of more leverage in the negotiating process? Well John it's hard for us and probably a little bit unfair to comment on something that is going on between 2 competitors that don't involve us.
And obviously if we get to a point where Walgreen stops filling those prescriptions then there's going to be a retail opportunity.
And you can look at the numbers of scripts and use our market share to quantify what that opportunity potentially could be.
And in terms of -- we have ongoing discussions with all the PBMs about a variety of issues.
They're always focused in terms of how we can provide the best level of service to their patients and I don't see that changing as a result of this.
And just last question on this.
Assuming the combination of the 2 competitor PBMs is approved does that change the -- I guess with more consolidation does that put pressure on the retail margins? Is that a significant change as you see it or not? I don't see the environment Mark changing from what exist today.
And there are ways puts and takes out in the marketplace.
And as we've talked we're always having discussions with PBMs in terms of how we can provide the best level of service for their members.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
I had a couple of questions here in the PBM side.
I think first besides the big events here that obviously are impacting the landscape this year people brought up the Express-Medco merger to Exprss-WAG situation.
Just curious if you think your timing with Aetna has maybe helped you in a way in winning other customers in the selling season this year or is that been more of a neutral event? And then I have a follow-up question.
No there have been a couple of renewals where we collaborate closely with Aetna.
Okay.
So that's been synergistic in the selling season okay.
That's good.
And then if somebody brought this up I apologize.
But one of the other byproducts obviously in the Express-Medco merger was the announcement that UNH is going to be try to become a major player.
And just curious if you have any additional thoughts in their ability to do so be a meaningful force? And then also do you see that as an opportunity to maybe gain some business with that shift and that large commercial book to a captive situation? Just curious to get your initial thoughts on that as well.
Well I think it's pretty clear from our recent step that United is investing in their own PBM and they certainly have been present in the marketplace over the past several months in the more prominent way than has been the case in the past.
So my view is I take all competitors very seriously and I certainly would count them as a very forceful company in terms of the resources they have and the expertise that they have and so on.
Having said that obviously we're going to look at capturing whatever opportunity we can from the churn that is likely to come because of these changes.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard Cleveland Research Company.
I understand there's a couple of moving parts in Retail.
Can you summarize or break out why the reduction in the full year comp estimate from the Retail business? What's different now versus 90 days ago to explain the reduced comp guidance for the year? Yes.
Eric a lot of it has to do with the increased penetration in generics the pressure that that's putting on the top line Pharmacy growth that we provided the numbers earlier in the prepared remarks.
So that's the biggest driver of it.
So beyond that I understand you're strategically saying you're trying to pursue lower margin sales less aggressively.
I guess the generic penetration I wouldn't think it would change that much versus where you were 90 days ago.
Again can you allocate the shift of why you think the full year comp is whatever it is now point or point half softer than what you had thought 90 days ago? Well Eric maybe I'll start and Larry can tag on here.
If you recall that 2011 we anticipated that to be kind of the low point from a generic implementation standpoint or introduction standpoint.
And what we have seen is we've been a bit more successful being able to drive generics within the stores #1 and 2 the market's been a little bit better than what we thought.
So I think the combination of those 2 events have put pressure on the top line but by the same token have enhanced our outlook on the bottom line.
And Eric I mean when we talked about the impact on our comps as a result of generics we're really focusing on the new generics that have been out in the marketplace for the last 12 months.
And we are seeing as Dave pointed out uptake in some of the older generics migrating or the brands associated with those generics migrating to generics.
And some of that reflects some programs that we have internally to drive that.
And quite frankly some of it reflects plan designs out in the marketplace promoting more generics.
In terms of the front end is the front-end expectation any different than it was? I know you don't totally break it out but is the front-end expectation any different than it was 90 days ago or is it a lower total comp all explained by the Pharmacy? Yes it's a little lower than we had expected.
If you said 90 days ago.
That being said it's certainly within our range acknowledging the comments that I made earlier in terms of our philosophy in terms of driving front store growth.
Our last question comes from the line of David Magee SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Inc.</strong> Two questions.
One is if you were to characterize the reimbursement environment right now in the Retail side versus last year would you say it's about the same or has it escalated somewhat year-to-year? Just trying to understand how that process is looking right now.
Yes I would characterize it David as comparable to what it was a year ago.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then secondly with regard to generics I know there's a lot of uncertainty with timing and this and that but generally speaking would you expect the impact to be greater on the Retail side or on the PBM side from that conversion wave? We're going to see benefits David across both segments of the business.
And again for the reasons that we've talked about many times there are some variables in play in terms of the timing of those benefits but we'll see the benefits both in the PBM as well as Retail.
Inc.</strong> But no adjusting for size is there a one-sided benefit that's more than the other? I guess we look at it a little bit in totality there so no.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for joining us.
And I appreciate your time and if you have any questions you can follow up with Nancy.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference for call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CVS Caremark Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday November 3 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Nancy Christal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm here with Larry Merlo President and CEO; Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO; and Per Lofberg President of our PBM business.
After our prepared remarks we'll have a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I have just a couple of reminders today.
First we'll host our Analyst Day on the morning of Tuesday December 20 in New York City.
At that time we'll provide 2012 guidance as well as a comprehensive update on our growth strategy.
In addition to Larry Dave and Per you'll also have the opportunity to hear from additional members of our senior management team including our new President of CVS/pharmacy Mark Cosby; our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer Dr.
Troy Brennan; and our President of MinuteClinic Dr.
Andy Sussman.
If you haven't received an invitation and would like to attend please contact me.
We expect a big turnout and look forward to seeing many of you there.
And second I want to be sure you're aware that we posted slides and supplemental financial schedules on our website this morning that summarize the information on this call as well as key facts and figures around our operating performance and guidance.
This morning we'll discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our company's performance namely free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
As always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call.
Please note too that we expect to file our Form 10-Q by end of day today and it will be available through our website at that time.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation we'll make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and that you review the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements in our most recently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Nancy and good morning everyone.
We reported strong third quarter results this morning with adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.70 $0.02 above the high end of our guidance.
This was primarily driven by a better-than-expected performance in our PBM as well as the impact of the accelerated share repurchase we announced and executed in the quarter.
We also delivered $1.5 billion in free cash flow this quarter bringing the year-to-date total to $3.9 billion.
Now recognizing our strong performance year-to-date as well as our solid outlook for the remainder of the year we are narrowing our 2011 EPS guidance range.
We now expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of between $2.77 and $2.81 compared to our previous guidance of $2.75 to $2.81.
In addition and consistent with prior guidance we expect to generate free cash flow for the year of between $4 billion and $4.2 billion.
And Dave will provide the full details on our guidance during his financial review.
So with that let me turn to our business update and acknowledge that today's update will be a bit more brief than usual since we'll have an opportunity to provide additional details at our Analyst Day next month.
Now you'll recall back in March upon assuming CEO responsibilities I told you we were very focused on turning around the growth trajectory of our PBM in order to unlock the full value of our integrated enterprise and I'm very pleased to report that we are delivering on our promises and we remain confident that the PBM will return to healthy operating profit growth next year.
As Nancy said we'll provide specific guidance at our December 20 meeting.
But today I want to focus on the successful execution of the 5-point plan to return the PBM to healthy operating profit growth that we outlined earlier this year.
The first key element of the plan achieve continued momentum in new business wins and client retention.
And with nearly 70% of the contract scheduled for renewal for 2012 completed our retention rate stands at 98%.
As for new business on our last call we reported net new business wins totaling $4.8 billion.
And since then I'm happy to report that the 2012 selling season has continued to go well resulting in some additional wins.
Now we won't go into the specifics today.
We'll save that for Analyst Day to wrap up the puts and takes from the current selling season in a more fulsome fashion.
Now in addition to net new business wins recall that the PBM contracts associated with our Universal American acquisition are expected to contribute about $5.5 billion in incremental revenue next year.
The majority of that $5.5 billion is associated with Caremark becoming the PBM for the prescription drug plan in 2012.
As we've said previously this PBM function is largely a claims processing arrangement and therefore yields a thin per claim margin but it is a very nice contributor to the synergy resulting from the UA transaction.
Now throughout the selling season we have remained focused on retaining and adding lives while maintaining a rational pricing strategy.
All of the new business represents a significant opportunity to upsell our unique win-win programs to the new lives under management providing opportunities for incremental scale and share gains across the CVS Caremark enterprise.
We believe that driving top line growth will help offset the usual margin compression associated with renewals and driving revenue growth will be an important component of successfully growing our operating profit over time.
The second key element of our PBM growth plan to continue to develop and upsell our unique clinical offerings and we have made great progress here.
As an example our Pharmacy Advisor program for diabetes it was launched in January will have approximately 12.5 million active members by year end and another 2.1 million members already committed to the program for next year.
Additionally we are excited by our ability to offer Pharmacy Advisor to Aetna's 8 million commercial lives as they begin the migration to our systems in 2012.
And we expect to build on this year's experience and launch Pharmacy Advisor for 4 key cardiovascular conditions next year.
We see the opportunity to double or perhaps triple the number of members using Pharmacy Advisor as we expand to other conditions.
So we're very excited with our program and the early results from Pharmacy Advisor are very encouraging.
We'll have more data to share at our Analyst Day around the effectiveness and impact Pharmacy Advisor interventions are having.
Third key element of our plan aggressively drive growth in mail choice and generics.
Since our last update we have added 51 new plans and another 1.7 million lives to our Maintenance Choice  population a population which now totals 757 plans representing 9.9 million lives committed to implement by January of '12.
Over time we see significant opportunity to increase the number of lives using Maintenance Choice and our data continues to demonstrate that Maintenance Choice has been successful in broadening access while reducing costs and improving prescription adherence.
Equally important now that the early adopters of Maintenance Choice are entering contract renewals we have retained over 99% of all Maintenance Choice clients demonstrating that our unique integrated programs increase client loyalty and make our contracts a little stickier.
Now moving on to driving growth in generic utilization.
We continue to encourage the adoption of plan designs to improve generic dispensing rates.
264 clients representing about 6.8 million lives have adopted generic Step Therapy plans.
And given our strong alignment these generic Step Therapy programs translate into significant savings for clients and enhanced profitability for our business.
The fourth key element of our plan is a focus on high-growth areas especially Medicare Part D Specialty Pharmacy and our Aetna relationship.
As you know we are very committed to growing our Med D business.
We view the Med D business as a significant growth opportunity in light of the number of employers who may decide to shift their retirees to EGWP program or simply into the open PDP  marketplace.
Furthermore despite thinner margins on a per script basis the value of providing services for our Med D life is significant since people over 65 take 3x the number of prescriptions compared to the under 65 population.
And with that in mind we completed the acquisition of Universal American's PDP business in April and the integration is going very well.
Now in regard to our bids for low-income subsidy lives in 2012 recall that our PDPs came in below or within de minimis in 33 of the 34 regions where we qualified for 2011.
That was great news and we estimate that we will be awarded more than 100 000 low-income subsidy lives.
Now that being said the total number of beneficiaries that will ultimately be enrolled in our PDP plans for '12 will not be known until we find out specifically how many low-income subsidy members will be assigned for the '12 plan year along with learning the results of the open enrollment period at year end.
In addition as an extension of our Aetna relationship in early October we announced a new co-branded Medicare Prescription Drug Plan now available in 43 states and the District of Columbia.
The Aetna CVS low-cost plan has a $26 monthly premium and no deductible for generic drugs.
Medicare beneficiaries who sign up for the plan and fill prescriptions at a CVS/pharmacy will realize savings on their out-of-pocket prescription drug costs providing outstanding value as well as the convenience of filling prescriptions at their neighborhood CVS.
Now let me touch briefly on Specialty as that again represents another area of significant opportunity and I'm happy to report this morning that our Specialty revenues grew a very strong 26.3% this quarter driven by healthy underlying growth as well as the addition of the Aetna Specialty business.
And we'll talk a lot more about our strategies for driving continued growth in Specialty next month at Analyst Day.
The third high-growth area is capitalizing on the long-term potential of the Aetna contract.
The implementation phase is ongoing and we continue to successfully operate within legacy Aetna facilities and on their platforms.
We expect the systems migrations to begin in 2012 and continue through the first half of '13.
Now as we said on our last call the Specialty migration has been completed and we are in the process of migrating Aetna mail prescriptions to CVS Caremark facilities with migrations occurring every 2 to 3 weeks through year end.
Furthermore we continue to work closely with Aetna to help build their messaging around the value proposition for 2012 and beyond.
We'll help them service their clients and build their client base by providing innovative solutions that deliver low-cost high-quality care for their members.
So overall the Aetna relationship is very solid and progressing very nicely.
And finally the fifth key element of our plan to execute successfully on the PBM streamlining initiative.
We are on track and remain confident that we will achieve more than $1 billion in related cost savings from 2011 through 2015.
As we've said previously the benefits of streamlining will outweigh the cost in 2012 and we continue to expect to hit the run rate of annual savings of between $225 million and $275 million in 2014.
Now you may recall this initiative is focused across 3 main categories.
One is streamlining operations to improve productivity; a second rationalizing capacity; and the third investing in technology.
And in the interest of time today I'll focus on investing technology and the progress that we've made on the migration to our destination platform.
In the third quarter we completed another successful wave of migrations and we implemented our new business on the destination platform.
For example by January 1 we expect all of our Medicare Part D business to be on one platform.
Now I think what's exciting about our technology investment is the powerful tools that we are using to seamlessly migrate our clients to the destination platform we'll also further enhance our ability to onboard large volumes of new business with best-in-class speed and accuracy.
So our 5-point plan is being executed successfully and as a result again I fully expect the PBM to demonstrate healthy operating profit growth in 2012.
Now I'll turn to our Retail business which continues to gain share.
Our same-store sales increased 2.3% in the quarter near the high end of our guidance range and we achieved that despite some onetime events in September that affected script utilization including the East Coast storms and a very slow start to the fall flu season.
Pharmacy comps increased 2.4% with script comps up 1% and that's with 90-day scripts counted as one script.
When converting 90-day scripts into 3 scripts our script comps increased 3.1% in the quarter.
Our script unit comps continued to outpace all of our primary competitors and our Pharmacy share in the markets in which we operate grew approximately 65 basis points versus a year ago.
Our Pharmacy comps were negatively impacted by approximately 200 basis points from new generics in the quarter.
In addition our Pharmacy comps benefited from the continued growth in Maintenance Choice which added approximately 140 basis points on a net basis.
Now we've gotten an awful lot of questions about whether or not we are already achieving benefits from the standoff between Walgreens and Express Scripts.
And the answer is it's not material to date.
Their contract runs through the end of this year.
So while some script transfers began to occur in the third quarter we did not see a material impact to our results.
Now we may see some transfers in the fourth quarter but the real opportunity begins in January if they haven't resolved their issues by then.
And we are certainly well positioned to service Express Scripts members to ensure that they have uninterrupted convenient access to pharmacy care and excellent customer service.
And we expect to capitalize on this significant opportunity to grow our business if they don't reach an agreement.
Now turning to the front store.
Traffic in the quarter was flat but the average transaction size grew versus last year.
We saw some increased inflation this quarter but it did not have a material impact on our results.
Our front store comps increased 2% in the quarter.
And while cold and flu-related sales were down year-over-year we saw strength in a number of categories especially allergy consumables and store brands.
And we recently launched our new proprietary beauty brands Nuance by Salma Hayek and its results to date are exceeding plan and our store-branded proprietary products made up 17.5% of front store sales in the third quarter up 50 basis points from last year as consumers continue to be value conscious in this economy.
Now with more than 68 million active ExtraCare card holders and almost 66% of our transactions using the card we continue to use our loyalty program to drive profitable front store sales.
And I'm pleased to report that our targeted promotional strategy enabled us to achieve higher front store margins yet again this quarter.
Our clustering initiatives continue to post very strong results.
Now in the second year of its roll-off the Urban Cluster encompasses 325 stores with plans to total about 420 stores by the end of this year.
And we're currently developing and testing additional clustering concepts and we expect to gain more insights in the coming months.
As for our real estate program we opened 53 new or relocated CVS/pharmacy stores.
We also closed one store resulting in 38 net new Retail drugstores in the quarter and we're on track to open approximately 150 net new stores for the year delivering Retail square footage growth of approximately 2.5%.
Now let me turn briefly to MinuteClinic and we'll talk more about MinuteClinic on Analyst Day.
But today we now operate 645 clinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia.
And we have now served over 10.5 million patients since the company's inception.
And despite virtually no flu season today MinuteClinic revenues increased 15.5% in the third quarter versus the same period last year and we are right on track to break even on an all-in basis by the end of this year.
As you know we announced plans to open 500 clinics over the next 5 years.
And during the third quarter we opened 48 new clinics bringing us to 87 new clinics as of the end of the quarter.
We believe our plans to double our clinic count over the next several years will position us well to play an important role in providing care to the 32 million newly insured beginning in 2014.
The MinuteClinic also continues to enhance its role as a collaborator in developing integrated health networks and accountable care organizations.
During the third quarter MinuteClinic entered into its 11th clinical affiliation this time with IU Health the largest and most comprehensive health system in Indiana.
And this is just one more example of a valuable affiliation with a leading health systems that again positions us well for future growth.
So with that I'll turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide a detailed review of our third quarter financial results.
I'll also review our 2011 guidance both for the full year and provide guidance for the fourth quarter.
I'll start with an update on our capital allocation program.
First we've paid approximately $510 million in dividends year-to-date.
We raised our quarterly dividend back -- by 43% back in January.
So we anticipate a payout ratio for 2011 of between 19% and 20%.
As you know last year we set a target payout ratio of 25% to 30% by 2015 which implies a 25% CAGR in our dividend and we are well on our way of achieving this very important goal.
Second coming into the third quarter we had approximately $1 billion left on our $2 billion 2010 share repurchase program.
We repurchased 16.3 million shares for approximately $579 million from that program in the third quarter.
Early in the third quarter we implemented the Rule 10b5-1 plan covering the 2010 share repurchase program and we only purchased shares in accordance with set plan parameters.
We have approximately $450 million left on our 2010 authorization and we expect to complete that by year end under this plan.
As you know in August our board authorized a new share repurchase program for up to $4 billion of our outstanding common stock.
Subsequent to this authorization we entered into a $1 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement under which we repurchased 25.7 million shares.
So during the third quarter we repurchased a total of 42.1 million shares at a cost of approximately $1.6 billion.
Year-to-date we have repurchased 69.5 million shares at an average cost of between $36 and $37 per share and we have spent approximately $2.5 billion.
It is my expectation that the remaining $3 billion of the 2011 authorization will be used in future periods beyond 2011.
So between dividends and share repurchases we have returned more than $3 billion to our shareholders in the first 3 quarters of 2011.
As you know we recently sold our TheraCom asset to AmerisourceBergen.
We're very focused on investing in asset that align with our strategic direction and will drive shareholder value.
We believe TheraCom was a non-core business for us and therefore chose to monetize it for $250 million.
We will use the proceeds as part of our capital allocation program going forward.
Given our strong free cash flow outlook our ability to return significant value to our shareholders should continue now and well into the future.
As Larry said we expect to generate between $4 billion and $4.2 billion of free cash this year.
In the third quarter we generated approximately $1.5 billion an increase of more than $600 million over the same period last year.
This increase was primarily driven by the timing of CMS funds received in September associated with premiums and subsidies for Medicare Part D which we earned in October.
This was partially offset by larger cash outflows and accounts payables due to the timing of purchases in both the PBM and Retail segments as well as the absence of proceeds from sale leaseback transactions in the third quarter of last year.
We expect the timing issues to reverse in the fourth quarter bringing us well within our cash flow targets for the year.
As you know across our Retail chain we set a $1 billion inventory reduction target for 2011.
I'm happy to report that during the third quarter we've reduced our related Retail inventories by another $305 million bringing the year-to-date total to approximately $855 million and placing us well within the reach of achieving our $1 billion inventory reduction goal for the year.
You can see the improvements we've made in accounts payable and inventory on the balance sheet and in our strong cash flow.
Inventory days within the Retail segment is more than 3 days better than it was at the end of last year and DPO has improved by nearly 2 days.
So we are confident that we can meet our targets for 2011 while our teams also lay the groundwork for additional improvements in 2012 and beyond.
Gross and net capital spending in the quarter was $458 million an improvement from $513 million last year mostly due to the timing of store construction costs.
Year-to-date our net capital spending has been approximately $1.2 billion or about $100 million less than the last year's comparable period.
Turning to the income statement.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.70 for the quarter $0.02 above the high end of our guidance range.
GAAP diluted EPS came in at $0.65 per share.
The earnings beat was driven by better-than-expected margins and profit in the PBM the accelerated share repurchase and solid expense control in the Corporate segment.
The better-than-expected performance in the PBM accounted for about $0.01 of the earnings per share beat and was driven by improved rebate performance and the timing of Medicare Part D profitability and expenses.
The $1 billion accelerated share repurchase was responsible for nearly $0.01 of the earnings beat.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the third quarter increased by more than 12% to $26.7 billion.
And drilling down by segment net revenues grew by 26% in the PBM to $14.8 billion.
The majority of the increase from last year was driven by the additions of the Universal American and Aetna businesses to our book.
PBM pharmacy network revenues in the quarter increased 31% from 2010 levels to $10 billion while pharmacy network claims grew by 40%.
Total mail choice revenues increased by 16% to $4.7 billion while mail choice claims expanded by 8%.
Our overall mail choice penetration rate was 21.8% down approximately 450 basis points versus last year.
This decrease was driven entirely by the addition of Aetna and the Universal American Med D business both of which have lower mail penetration rates than the average book of our business.
In the Retail business we saw revenues increase 3.8% in the quarter to $14.7 billion.
This increase was primarily driven by our same-store sales increase of 2.3% as well as net revenues from new stores and relocations which accounted for approximately 150 basis points of the increase.
Pharmacy unit comps increased 3.1% on a 30-day supply basis.
Pharmacy revenues continue to benefit from our Maintenance Choice product.
As Larry noted Maintenance Choice had a net positive impact of approximately 140 basis points on our Pharmacy comps this quarter.
Additionally a higher generic dispensing rate negatively impacted Pharmacy revenue growth.
Turning to gross margin.
The consolidated company reported 19.4% in the quarter while gross margin contracted 174 basis points compared to last year and it has improved 96 basis points since Q1 of this year.
Within the PBM segment we saw a sequential gross margin improvement of approximately 150 basis points but gross margin was down 125 basis points versus last year's third quarter.
The decline versus last year mainly reflects the pricing compression associated with contract renewals including the 1-year extension of the FEP contract which became effective in September of last year.
It also reflects the impact of the addition of the Aetna business.
Partially offsetting this was the positive margin impact from the 230 basis point increase in the PBM's generic dispensing rate which grew from 72% to 74.3%.
Gross margin in the Retail segment was 29.3% a decrease of approximately 25 basis points from last year and approximately 45 basis points sequentially.
Versus last year's third quarter gross margin was negatively impacted by continued pressure on Pharmacy reimbursement rates as well as the growth in Maintenance Choice which compresses Retail gross margin that helps the overall enterprise.
These negative factors were mostly offset by increased generic dispensing rate with Retail GDR increasing by 220 basis points to 75.7% the benefits from our various front store initiatives and increases in store brand penetration.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenue improved by approximately 145 basis points versus the third quarter of last year.
The PBM segment's SG&amp;A rate improved by 20 basis points to 1.7%.
Again this was primarily due to expense leverage gained by the addition of a large Aetna contract which was partially offset by the impact of our acquisition of the Universal American Med D business.
The Retail segment also saw a nice improvement in SG&amp;A leverage which was largely driven by improved expense leverage from our same-store sales growth and expense control initiatives.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved by approximately 55 basis points to 21.7%.
Within the Corporate segment expenses were down approximately $12 million to $156 million or less than 1% of consolidated revenues improving by 13 basis points versus the same period last year.
The decrease in expense was primarily related to lower legal and consulting expenses partially offset by increased employee benefit-related expenses and increases in depreciation.
And with the change in gross margin more than offsetting the improvement in the SG&amp;A as a percent of sales operating margin for the total enterprise declined by 30 basis points to 5.9%.
Operating margin in the PBM was 4.4% down about 105 basis points while operating margin at Retail was 7.6% up about 30 basis points.
Our EBITDA per adjusted claim was $3.35 in the quarter up sequentially from the second quarter due to the seasonality of the Med D business including Universal American and the improving profitability as we move throughout the year.
Retail operating profit which makes up about 2/3 of our overall operating profit achieved continued healthy growth.
It increased approximately 8% near the high end of our guidance.
PBM profit increased 2% which was well above our guidance range.
Going below the line on the consolidated income statement we saw net interest expense in the quarter increase by approximately $18  million to $155 million.
Additionally our effective income tax rate was 39.3% and our weighted average share count was 1.34 billion shares.
Now let me turn to our guidance for the fourth quarter as well as the full year 2011.
As Larry said we are nearing our 2011 guidance for adjusted EPS to the higher end of our previous range.
We now anticipate delivering adjusted EPS of between $2.77 and $2.81 and GAAP diluted EPS from continuing ops of between $2.57 and $2.61.
If you adjust last year's EPS figures for our onetime tax benefit of $47 million we are now expecting underlying growth of approximately 5% to 6%.
This revised guidance recognizes our strong performance throughout the first 9 months this year as well as our confidence in continued solid results for the remainder of this year.
It also includes the accretive impact of our accelerated share repurchase in 2011 of about $0.02 per share and the dilutive impact on both 2011 and 2010 for the reclassification of our TheraCom asset to discontinued operations of $0.01 per share.
Additionally embedded in this guidance is the assumption that we will complete the repurchase of the approximately $450 million worth of our stock left on our 2010 authorization.
This would bring our repurchase total for the year to approximately $3 billion.
Larry also told you that our free cash flow guidance remains unchanged for the full year and that we expect to deliver between $4 billion and $4.2 billion of free cash and this might seem a little low to some of you given the very robust third quarter we just reported.
But keep in mind that a good portion of our strong third quarter performance was related to the timing of a payment from CMS.
So for the full year our forecast remains unchanged.
Now let me walk through the fourth quarter.
With adjusted EPS of between $0.87 and $0.91 per diluted share compared to last year's $0.79 per share.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $0.82 to $0.86 per diluted share.
These estimates do not assume a material impact from either Lipitor or the Walgreens-Express Scripts impasse.
We are assuming that the material benefits from Lipitor will occur after the 6-month exclusivity period expires and the clock starts ticking on that once Ranbaxy launches.
And we are assuming that if Walgreens and Express do not come to terms the real pickup in sales in our Retail business will begin in January once their contract has expired.
As Larry said the activity to date has been immaterial.
We expect the PBM segment's operating profit to increase 14% to 18% in the fourth quarter.
Sequentially we are benefiting from the cycling of the impact to the FEP renewal last quarter the normal progression in our Med D business of increasing profitability as we move throughout the year and of course the improvement of the net impact of the streamlining costs and benefits.
For the year we expect the PBM segment operating profit to decrease by 7% to 8% driven down largely by the FEP repricing impact on the first 3 quarters ongoing renewal price compression and the costs associated with streamlining which was partially offset by the addition of the Universal American business and other new business wins.
We expect the Retail segment operating profit to grow 4% to 7% in the fourth quarter and to grow 7.5% to 9% for the year consistent with our previous guidance.
While flu-related script volume has been modest to date the high end of our guidance would be achieved if we see a more robust flu season in November and December.
For the PBM segment we expect revenue to increase by 30% to 32% for the quarter.
For the Retail segment we expect revenue to increase by 2% to 4% and same-store sales to increase 0.5% to 2.5%.
As a result for the total enterprise in the quarter we expect revenues to be up approximately 13% to 15% from 2010 levels.
This is after intercompany eliminations which are projected to equal about 9.8% of combined segment revenues.
For the total company gross profit margins are expected to be significantly down from last year's fourth quarter as both the Retail and PBM segments will experience compression.
Expectations are that gross margins in the Retail segment for the fourth quarter will be significantly down due to continued Pharmacy reimbursement pressure as well as the increased promotions we're planning for the holiday season.
Gross margin in the PBM segment will be notably down mostly due to the addition of the large lower-margin Aetna business.
For the total company operating expenses now are expected to be approximately 13% of consolidated revenues in the fourth quarter.
The PBM should show moderate improvement mostly due to expense leverage gained by the addition of Aetna.
Retail should improve significantly as we reap the benefits of our ongoing expense control initiatives and we expect operating expenses in the Corporate segment to be in the range of $155 million to $165 million.
As a result we expect operating margin for the total company in the quarter to be modestly down from last year's fourth quarter.
We expect net interest expense of approximately $145 million and a tax rate of approximately 39% in the fourth quarter.
We anticipate that we'll have approximately 1.3 billion weighted average shares for the quarter which would imply slightly less than 1.35 billion for the year.
In the fourth quarter we expect total consolidated amortization to be approximately $155 million.
Combined with the estimated depreciation we still project approximately $1.6 billion in D&amp;A for the full year.
As for capital spending for the year we continue to expect net capital expenditures to between $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion with the proceeds from sale leaseback of approximately $600 million.
Combined with our expectations for operating cash flow this should lead to approximately $4 billion to $4.2 billion in free cash flow this year growing by over 20% versus last year and we've demonstrated that so far this year.
We are keenly focused on enhancing our cash flow through solid working capital and CapEx discipline.
The working capital improvements we've achieved and continue to drive specifically with inventory and accounts payable will continue to drive our free cash flow performance building upon our strong year-to-date performance.
This performance is expected to yield solid cash flow from operations in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.6 billion for the year.
I want to just clarify one point.
In the fourth quarter we expect total consolidated amortization to be approximately $115 million.
Combined with its estimated depreciation we still project $1.6 billion in D&amp;A for the full year.
Now before turning it back to Larry I just want to reiterate that our fourth quarter guidance does not assume a material impact from the Walgreens-Express impasse.
Following the expiration of their contract at year end we would expect to see a positive impact beginning in January and we'll be ready to support the Express Scripts members and to capture the corresponding financial benefit.
However that upside will not be included in our 2012 guidance as the situation is fluid and not within our control.
On Analyst Day however we will outline the upside to CVS/pharmacy in 2012 if this situation continues.
But again it will not be within our guidance.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
And just as a recap we're certainly pleased with our results this quarter.
Our third quarter was characterized by continued success in the PBM selling season great progress on our 5-point PBM turnaround plan solid Retail performance with healthy sales growth front store margin expansion and share gain strong revenue growth at MinuteClinic and right on track to reach breakeven by the end of the year earnings per share $0.02 above the high end of our guidance range and significant free cash flow generation with substantial value return to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Lisa Gill JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Larry I was just wondering if you have any thoughts around narrow networks in general.
What kind of interest are you seeing from clients as they move into 2012? And maybe you can talk about it on the other side as well.
If you're seeing other PBMs that are now doing a narrow network how is that potentially benefiting CVS? Yes let me start Lisa and then I think Per will probably add some color as well.
But I think certainly what's going on with Express and Walgreens I think raises the dialogue around restricted networks.
And I think as we know and has always been the case payers are going to look for savings in every which way they can to find incremental savings in their pharmacy benefit.
And limited networks are just another way to accomplish that.
So I think as we look into next year's selling season we believe that that will be a very important topic and probably get an awful lot of discussion and dialogue.
On the Retail side Lisa certainly with our 7 400 stores we believe that we are very well positioned to be a beneficiary in an environment of restricted networks.
We think that we have strong relationships with all the major PBMs a solid reputation among payers across the country and our Retail business unit works very hard with all the PBMs to ensure that we have both stable and long-term relationships.
So we think that that potentially would be an opportunity for us on the Retail side as well.
Research Division</strong> And then just a follow-up...
Lisa this is Per.
I would just add that I think as you guys have heard many times it is quite possible to service large nationwide customers with networks that are smaller than the big 60 000-plus networks that are common today.
And Express have made that point several times and likewise we have said the same thing.
So I do expect that if the separation between Express and Walgreens continues into next year benefit consultants in the RFP process will be focused quite a bit on the types of savings that payers can realize with smaller networks than what's been common over the past couple of years.
Research Division</strong> But Per have you seen anybody actually sign up for it for 2012? Or do you think that this is just a discussion that leads now into the 2013 selling season? Yes it's beginning.
There are several of the managed Medicaid networks that are quite narrow compared to the traditional commercial networks.
You may have seen that State of Florida which changed from us to Medco put in the restricted network excluding Walgreens for the Retail side of the business.
So I think it's beginning to happen and I will be very surprised if that doesn't become sort of a frequent topic of discussion going into next year.
Research Division</strong> And then just one more question if I might.
On Lipitor specifically we've seen that some of the PBMs have done some interesting contracting around the branded with Pfizer.
There's been a lot of talk about Pfizer talking about keeping 40% of branded even when the generic comes to market.
Can you comment Per or Larry on what your strategy is around Lipitor and what clients are thinking as we move into this next big generic wave? Yes the only thing I think can say that's sort of public knowledge is that we like some other plans in the Medicare part of the business have adopted a Tier 1 strategy for Lipitor.
So we have made it attractive for plan members to use Lipitor as sort of -- with the equivalent co-pay as a generic going into 2012.
And that's obviously of interest so that you can maximize the usage of that molecule and then capture as much of the savings benefit once it becomes available generically.
And let me just -- I guess following up on that Lisa.
We'll just talk a little bit about Lipitor because I know it keeps coming up as a question.
But as Dave alluded to in his prepared remarks it's certainly a situation with a lot of uncertainty.
We still don't know if Ranbaxy launches later this month which would as we all know begin the exclusivity period.
And there's uncertainty as to the magnitude of plan designs as Per was talking about in terms of treating the brand as a Tier 1 or preferred product versus the generic.
And obviously that impacts our Retail business.
So it's difficult to quantify the impact of Lipitor.
And again as Dave mentioned and as we've talked previously we maximize our profitability during the break open period.
So it's not a question of if for us it's more of a question of when.
Our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
As a follow-up on the restricted network issue do you think from a Caremark perspective how much of an advantage will it be in next year's selling season to have Walgreen in your network versus others who don't? I kind of assumed that that would be a notable selling point.
But how big of an advantage do you think it is? I don't think it's a big advantage.
I don't think it will be sort of a significant factor.
I do think there will be as I mentioned earlier many customers who will sort of want to compare the cost savings that they can achieve with a somewhat narrower network as compared to the 60 000-plus store network.
And they'll evaluate the cost savings in relation to the disruption factor that they'll have to kind of live through.
So I do think it will be on the table in quite a number of conversations next year.
And John I mean a lot of people have done the math.
You've probably done some of that yourself in terms of when you look at the overlap of pharmacies and the number of participating pharmacies even at a more restricted network in terms of a 1 mile 2 mile radius.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
So if it doesn't end up helping you in a big way sign up new contracts do you think it matters at all in helping you retain existing contracts with a little less of a margin hit? Is that where the bigger impact is to be felt? I really can't speculate on that.
I think this whole kind of uncertainty will probably cause customers to go out a bit that will sort of look at all of the options that are available to them.
And so there will be some churn in the marketplace caused by these types of changes.
And of course the pending Express-Medco merger likewise I think will cause a fair amount of churn in the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And finally just 2 quick things on Retail.
The front-end comp picked up nicely 1 year and 2 year but the margins were good.
So it wasn't promotionally driven.
Larry where do you think that came from? And then secondly you've done a terrific job managing expenses on the Retail side and I assume a lot of that's labor.
Where are the bigger opportunities to continue taking labor out of the stores? Yes John.
Let me answer the expense question then I'll come back to the sales question.
But when you look at our expenses obviously as Dave talked about we're doing a lot of work around the inventory.
And I believe that as we look across the supply chain we do have incremental opportunities to gain some efficiencies as we move those plans forward over the next couple of years.
And I would say that's probably the biggest opportunity that's on the table.
Back to your question about front store sales as we talked on the last call we continue to leverage ExtraCare in a way in which we can create value for customers but to do it in a responsible fashion in terms of creating sales that have a positive margin flow through.
And I think that's what we saw in the third quarter.
Again as we've talked oftentimes we're seeing this evolution in terms of mass communication via the Sunday circular for us versus more personalized communication.
And we certainly see us having an advantage with our 68 million active ExtraCare card holders.
And we continue to experiment and learn from that in terms of how far we can push the needle in real time recognizing that there's still a big segment of customers that look for that Sunday circular.
So we're trying things.
We're learning some things.
As Dave mentioned we do expect to promote more in the fourth quarter.
And when I say promote more promote comparable to last year more than what we saw probably in the second and third quarter.
Because one of the learnings that we got is it's hard to tell that personalized story during a period a holiday period where you have many many more products in the store that customers are not used to seeing on a 52-week basis.
So that's the thinking behind that.
We're not changing our promotional strategy from what we've talked about on prior quarters.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 follow-ups here.
One just to sort of put all your Walgreens-Express related comments in a nutshell it seems like if you think  not just in '12 but sort of longer term that maybe you're saying you think the bigger opportunity could be on Retail as opposed to winning PBM business.
Is that fair to take away from your comments so far? Well John -- Tom it's pretty hard to quantify the big opportunity.
I would say in the near term there's certainly a bigger opportunity on the Retail piece if this situation is not resolved come January.
We've all seen the numbers in terms of the Walgreens-Express  business and the fact that those scripts would be available out in the open market.
And at that point in time those Express members are going to be looking for a new pharmacy to serve their needs and we're certainly ready willing and more than capable of capitalizing on that opportunity should it arise.
I think it's fair to mention I think there could be some downstream benefits as we migrate into next year's selling season.
But I think it's easy to see the immediate benefit more on the Retail side.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think in your prepared remarks you talked about sort of growing revenues on the PBM side and then over time the opportunity to upsell is important.
Can you give us any examples of sort of upselling more recently so we can sort of understand exactly how that strategy plays out over time? Well no I'll start and then Per will add again add some color.
But Tom I think we're seeing examples of that just this year in terms of the selling season.
A product like Maintenance Choice was a very important differentiator in terms of winning new business.
And as we shared earlier in some of the numbers we are seeing rapid adoption of the new products and services that we're offering not just Maintenance Choice but Pharmacy Advisor.
And I think we have opportunities to further capitalize on it as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Can you remind us how you get paid for something like Pharmacy Advisor? Well the primary focus at Pharmacy Advisor today is basically to identify adherence opportunities and gaps in care that can be filled with medication.
So the primary benefit is in sort of the uptake of prescriptions through CVS pharmacies or Caremark mail order pharmacies.
Over time as we get more outcomes-based evidence around these programs we can certainly expand the sort of the financial arrangements around those both in terms of guarantees and gain share opportunities going forward.
And Tom a little bit -- I mean both of these questions really point to the fact that our CVS Caremark offering is a differentiated offering in the marketplace versus the traditional PBM model.
And again as we've commented in the past we're very confident in our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace regardless of what goes on whether we're talking about a bigger Express Scripts as a result of the Medco merger or the issues that are out there brewing between the Express-Walgreens dispute.
And the examples that we're talking about are why or evidence of the differentiation that we carry.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Larry it sounds to me like [Audio Gap] payers see it is a critical part of the pharmacy distribution network and Express seems ready to make the bet that they can successfully sell a PBM network without Walgreens.
If I take the comments that I hear from you today it almost sounds like you think Express Scripts is right.
And I want to get some color on that and then if that's true you own a pretty big Retail business.
So what does that say about Retail? Ed I'm not going to comment on that question.
I mean I think that we've -- through today as well as past meetings we've talked about the confidence in the CVS Caremark and the value that we're bringing to the marketplace both whether it's clients and their members or the consumers.
And we're excited with the work that we're doing and the opportunities that we continue to have in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of next year you may not want to comment on this.
But there's a lot of moving parts to next year.
It seems like if we go through some of those parts we're talking about what's probably going to be a more back-half weighted year.
Can you maybe at least talk about some of those issues that we should be thinking about going into the Analyst Day and at least help us frame some of those topics? Yes this is Dave maybe I can just comment very specifically.
We obviously plan in December to kind of lay out our plan for 2012 give some very specific clarity around how we think that the year will shape up.
As you know we've been very focused on ensuring that next year is a very productive year for us in totality with a specific focus on the PBM business.
Clearly there's 2 things at a macro level that we'll talk about a bit: one as we cycle into 2012 and quite frankly for the next several years since generics will be a very important factor for us and a very important factor across both segments of our business.
And obviously as we talked about today and in the past Medicare Part D will also be a nice contributor as we think about the next several years in our business.
We'll begin to lay all those things out for you in the next several weeks.
The one thing to do to keep in mind both of those both generics and Medicare Part D are quite frankly back-half loaded because of the progression in the benefit structure in Medicare Part D and the fact that Lipitor specifically as it's currently contemplated is more impactful for us once it's broken open.
And that's in the back half of 2012 and we'll help in December lay that out for everyone.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just to be clear the issue on Lipitor if Pfizer ends up keeping a decent share of business there the exclusivity period for the drug retail business is not going to be anywhere near as good as it what it had been maybe on other drugs that's right correct? That's correct Ed.
That's how we look at it and that's a little bit why we talk a lot about maximizing our profitability once the exclusivity period expires.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Since we're within 3 weeks of hearing from the super committee I just wanted to get your latest perspectives on the Waxman proposal that duals should get same pricing as Medicaid which obviously is set to save $135 billion over 10 years.
I know you guys believe that that's going to be counterproductive.
But since you have a large dual population assuming we do get this proposal remind us of how we should think of impact and how or when it could move from proposal to actual implementation.
Larry I think it might be just a tad early to comment on that.
Some of the specifics around the programs are probably not as defined as at a level that we could have a definitive comment on that at this point.
Research Division</strong> But can you comment as to whether you think it will be proposed or how legitimate a proposal it is? Candidly Larry I mean I need to hear from our Washington people more about this to be able to give you sort of any kind of meaningful commentary from the company.
So I'll sort of check in with them and make sure we get briefed on the issue in more detail so we can give you a better answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up.
I guess one of the themes today has been elements of change in the marketplace certainly for 2012 given the potential merger other elements of networks.
We've already had a smaller competitor in the benefit management space set an aggressive target of doubling their new business share.
You've been very successful in expanding your customer base the last 2 years and I know you're going to give guidance in December.
But why wouldn't you also think of '12 as being a particularly good time for you to be even more aggressive in capturing additional share given the change in the market? Larry I fully anticipate that this coming year will be a very very active year from a sales and renewal standpoint.
And the factors -- so the changes that you're alluding to I do think they will prompt customers to kind of reevaluate their PBM partnerships and look for better solutions or new solutions out there.
So I suspect it'll be very very active market this year and we fully intend to be quite engaged in that as you can imagine.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to give a shot at Ed Kelly's question in maybe in a little different way and I guess John was touching on it earlier.
As we look to next year I mean in some ways it seems like the controversy between Walgreens and Express is probably just helping you sell your idea of Maintenance Choice you're going to comment on that.
And then just in the marketplace rather than siding with Express or Walgreens I mean isn't it just basically -- maybe both are a little bit right but you're the only one with the right assets.
I wonder if you could comment on that.
Scott I guess that's one way of looking at it okay? I mean some of the questions that are being asked today I agree it reflects the reason why these 2 companies came together and the opportunities that we have to as we've talked many times about the goals of reducing cost and at the same time improving the health of the clients' members and retail consumers.
So yes I agree with that.
I don't -- Per I guess I'd...
I guess I think this last year's selling season are I think was one where -- there's no question that the kind of the integrated solutions that we had available were a factor.
You never know exactly why people make their final decision to change from one PBM to another.
But I feel pretty confident that the Maintenance Choice capability is in a couple of instances the MinuteClinic capability were clearly sort of factors in the process.
And I feel very good about sort of going forward with the sort of the integrated capabilities.
And I'm not going to lose any sleep about CVS not being in the Caremark network.
So I think we're in a very good spot to really build on the integrated assets that we have.
Scott I think what's a little bit in play and we're looking forward to sharing some of that quantifiable data in December is that the fact that we have had these products in market for a few years now like Maintenance Choice.
It's not just qualifiable information in terms of the perceived value that the product brings to the marketplace.
It is now quantifiable information and I think that what we've seen this year is that that's resonating for clients.
So -- and as I mentioned we'll be sharing some of that next month.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the color.
And when you look at the Maintenance Choice product which I guess is 9.9 million and Pharmacy Advisors about 12.5 million I think you said but they're running 2.5 million at the end of year.
I mean if you look at these programs you look at the marketplace I mean is it outrageous to think some of these programs could double as we move through as we get to 2013 given kind of what's going on with the marketplace? Or is that too significant do you think? I mean setting aside the time frame I do think there is a lot of additional runway for these programs and we have the opportunity to make them even better quite frankly.
So I believe I'm very encouraged that they can become a component of many many of our customer relationships going forward.
But I'm not going to try to nail it down in terms of how far that would likely to get by 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just want to make sure I heard a couple of things correctly and then I had something for Dave just a little housekeeping.
Did I hear you right that Lipitor is just not going to be as good as kind of a normal generic? Was that the comment to Ed's question? No.
No that is not correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That is not correct.
Okay great.
And then the expected ending share count Dave do you have an estimate of that for this year? Not for the quarter but for this year.
Do you have an estimate for the end in the fourth quarter? Approximately 1.35 billion.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 1.35 billion ending share count.
Not the average but the ending at the end of the fourth quarter.
Yes that's the weighted average.
I don't have the ending with me right now.
That's the average.
Our next question comes from the line of John Wise [ph] Fir Tree Partners.
I know you've talked a lot about the Walgreens dispute.
But can you comment if you saw any impact in October either on the script or front-end side of the Retail business? And the others have alluded to it and it looks like it lags comp store sales for October were a little bit weaker this morning.
Yes.
And John we have seen script transfers but as we've talked it's immaterial in our results at this point in time.
Got it.
And had it picked up in October at all or? Again not materially.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette UBS.
Research Division</strong> Now for the PBM just the deferral on the update on net wins in the selling season until the Analyst Day is there any chance you could just at least provide some general comments on just the PBM pricing trends and the selling season maybe this year versus last year.
And also do you think maybe the proposed Express-Medco merger maybe take some pressure off the competitive environments? Just trying to get a sense a general sense for PBM pricing trends.
No change showing any significance Steve.
Our business is a very competitive business.
And as you know the economics are always sort of in the forefront of the clients valuating these bids.
But there is no change or any trend break this year versus last year or before or after the announcement of the Express merger.
And Steve again we'll talk more about it in December but I can tell you that all of the new business is profitable.
To Per's point the pricing strategy has not changed from what it was earlier this year or even last year for that matter.
And we're underwriting new business to be profitable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just quickly on the Retail side just to clarify.
You guys mentioned a couple of times the lower Retail gross margins due to pressure on pharmacy reimbursement impacting 3Q and 4Q.
Is there anything new happening there in the back half of '11? Or is that just a continuation of the full year trend that you also saw in the first half? Just wanted to get some clarity around that.
Yes Steve as we've talked many times there has always been margin compression out in the marketplace.
We did see an uptick on reimbursement pressures in the third quarter and we're expecting that to continue through the balance of the year.
And it's coming out of the State Medicaid plans as well as in the commercial market.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple follow-up questions here.
You spoke in your prepared remarks about FEP and the renewal of the contract it cycled in September.
Any residual impact going forward on PBM gross margin associated with the FEP deal? One thing you should be aware of that we have spoken about in the past is that the renewal of FEP 2012 and beyond like the other contracts with the federal government employees and retirees are being restructured to be essentially a cost-plus or a pass-through type of arrangement.
So there will be some margin compression associated with that.
Research Division</strong> And that's above and beyond sort of sector-wide margin compression if you will? Probably yes.
But it's sort of unique to that particular segment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Second...
As we've talked before the steps on in profitability would not be to the impact that we experienced with the 1-year renewal that we cycled around this September.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up to the Retail gross margin question.
I know that John asked this before but just to get a sense of it.
Is there any change in the competitive environment that you have discerned whether it's consumers' value focus whether it's something that you're seeing out of the discount store the dollar stores that is leading you to think about a more promotional stance for the front-end business in Q4? Matt the answer to that is no.
We continue to see the consumer looking for value and remaining value conscious.
And I want to emphasize that the comments that we made about promoting more in the fourth quarter is comparable with last year but it is an uptick from what we experienced in Q2 and Q3.
Where example in Q3 we had a 6% decline in page count year-over-year.
And we're expecting our page count in Q4 to be comparable to last year.
And again it reflects our learnings in terms of how we tell the story around key holiday periods.
And obviously we're getting ready to enter the Christmas selling season and reflects the fact that there are an awful lot of products that customers are going to see the next 3 months that they wouldn't see in the first 9 months.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of follow-up questions.
First of all on the FEP contract.
So just to clarify when you think about the net impact from both sides of the book the Retail and the new mail business will the combination be incremental to profits? Well certainly adding the mail order and the Specialty business is incrementally profitable to us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we think about mail plus Specialty plus the step-down in Retail when we add all 3 components are we going to see a net step-up? This is Dave.
I'll just lay all of it we'll talk about guidance for 2012 come 6 weeks from now.
We'll kind of outline our expectations for '12.
So I think that's a topic for that matter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the second follow-up on Lipitor.
I know you've got a lot of questions on that but just so that I understand your comment on moving Lipitor to Tier 1 for the Medicare side.
So are you moving branded Lipitor to Tier 1 on Medicare? Yes.
Yes.
Excuse me sorry.
That's on the Medicare part of it yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And not for your commercial book? Well that's not something that is publicly available today.
So we have many customers where we have customized formulary discussions.
And so in due course we'll probably have more information on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when you think about your book of business and you think about kind of like Lipitor and just generic penetration rates versus branded what do you estimate is going to be kind of like the branded Lipitor what percent of -- what will be kind of like the branded Lipitor share within your book of business for the first 180 days? I know that Pfizer said on their conference call today...
We haven't commented on that.
Just keep in mind though this -- Lipitor and generics in total is a very nice tailwind for us both for next year and ongoing.
And it's mostly important after the break open period after the exclusivity period expires.
And we can talk more about that in December.
Our next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig Citigroup.
This is Shane on the line for Deb.
I have a quick question on the PBM side.
I was just wondering if have you seen sort of increased demand for MAC-based pricing as opposed to AWP-based pricing from your commercial PBM client? Well on the commercial side of the business the generics are -- that MAC pricing is kind of the norm.
So you are then? I mean it's basically the way that that business works on the commercial side.
Okay.
All right.
And then just on the Retail side of things.
Just kind of looking at the quarter obviously your front-end sales were pretty strong.
I'm just kind of wondering what the kind of cadence of the quarter was whether it was accelerating throughout or...
Shane it was pretty consistent throughout the quarter.
There weren't a lot of spikes albeit we saw a spike in September when the storms hit with battery sales and things of that nature.
But other than that it was pretty consistent for us.
And then if you look into October has the trend kind of stayed the same or? Yes we're not going to get ahead of ourselves and get into the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Miller William Blair.
Research Division</strong> As the one large PBM that is supportive of moving to 90-day fills at Retail what portion of the Maintenance Choice savings are coming from that migration of 1 fill versus 3 fills? Well when we offer Maintenance Choice to customers it just basically means that they can choose if they want to to get the 90-day prescriptions at the Retail at the CVS Retail pharmacies versus the mail order pharmacies for the same co-pay and the same price to the plan.
So there is no net change in the economics if a member elects to get the prescriptions in the Retail pharmacies versus the mail order pharmacies.
They just have more flexibility.
Research Division</strong> But Per what I'm asking is isn't that a lower cost to the plan if that member employee is getting a 90-day fill instead of a 30-day fill? Yes.
Yes correct.
Think about it as implementing a mandatory mail program with the convenience of picking up your script at one of our CVS/pharmacy locations.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Right.
And so when we think about the migration then to the plan I guess I was trying to get at what kind of savings those adoptees are getting from that program.
And then the midyear sign-ups that you're highlighting is this an acceleration from what you expected or is it progressing as you anticipated? Well Mark keep in mind that the early adopters were clients that had mandatory mail provisions to begin with.
So it was more of a convenience for their members to have a Retail option.
As the program got off the ground we saw more and more voluntary mail clients opt in to the Maintenance Choice product which did exactly what you're asking.
That's where the real savings were provided and we've talked publicly about clients have seen as much as 4% savings in adopting the Maintenance Choice program.
Research Division</strong> And then Larry is the acceleration -- are the midyear sign-ups happening as you expected or is that moving faster than you planned? It's pretty much on plan yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then my other question is as you're discussing some reimbursement pressure here does this indicate potentially that this generic wave that the typical mix shift here that would lift your overall margins that we might see a significant portion of that get competed away or is that the wrong impression from your comments? No Mark that's the wrong impression.
And I want to emphasize that our modeling does not call into question if we're going to see the profits.
It calls into question of when we'll see the profits.
Because you have variables in play that quite frankly as it relates to Lipitor are still unanswered.
And there are differences whether it's a single-source generic multi-source generic has the exclusivity period the break open period.
And those dynamics change our level of profitability in terms of when we maximize our opportunity.
But as we've talked we expect this to be a big benefit for our business over the next several years recognizing we've got almost $100 billion worth of branded products coming off patent between now and '15.
Our next question comes from the line of John Ransom Raymond James &amp; Associates.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Man it's hard to be clever at the end of a long call.
But my question is can you remind me I remember you guys brought a bunch of business forward in '09.
What is the percentage of your PBM contracts going up for renewal 2012 maybe first half of 2013 to account for that bolus? Yes John.
It's roughly a little less than 1/3 around that ballpark range.
And we'll talk a little bit more about that next month and give you a firmer number.
But that's the ballpark number.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So it's not any more than what you would normally see on a 3-year cycle then? No...
No.
That's probably a little less actually.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But didn't you bring a bunch of contracts forward in '09? Why wouldn't that have affected the renewal rate? Well we've also added a bunch of contracts since '09 as well too John.
So the average would be proportionally will be smaller.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my other question is just thinking about your Retail business you lost a little bit of a comp relative to your big competitor in Chicago and they count things differently.
I realize they've added liquor and stuff like that.
But is there anything that they're doing now that maybe you wish you would have done? Or is there anything you're thinking about with your Retail business to maybe try to get back a comp point or 2 or 3 relative to what you were doing a year ago? Well John we're always looking for new ways in which we can move the business forward.
And we've talked about some of those in terms of whether it's leveraging ExtraCare with a focus on both sales and profitability.
I think we're getting some traction out of the clustering work that we're doing and we see that as a big opportunity as we go forward.
And we're getting some good learnings from that.
And we're always going to work in terms of what's the next evolution of the store and as that evolves we'll talk more about it.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Do you think it's more evolutionary or are you thinking about any sort of like store prototype reset or anything like that? Or is it just going to be more evolutionary? I think it's more evolutionary John.
Our last question comes from the line of Meredith Adler Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to start going back to the subject of limited networks.
And I don't know whether you have a view about whether these things are good for the industry or not but if you do I'd be interested in you're thinking on that.
I should say good for Retail Pharmacy.
I'll let the Retail Pharmacy people answer that.
I think it can be potentially good for the payers how's that? Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sure.
Well Meredith I think what's evolving is we're going to have an environment where there are going to be players that can satisfy the needs of clients and payers and then there are going to be pharmacies that aren't going to be able to satisfy those demands.
So I do see this as a step change in our industry going forward.
Research Division</strong> And the impact on profitability for even those that stay in these limited networks? Well I think Meredith as you would expect there's a share gain and perhaps that share gain is accompanied by some margin pressure.
But the math would tell you that there's a positive flow through to the bottom line.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I want to go back to what seems like a dead horse which is Lipitor.
But I'm listening to the questions and I'm not sure that it's all very clear to people that when -- am I right that if Ranbaxy does not get their generic in the market you don't start the clock for exclusivity and so why...
That's correct.
That's correct yes.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So -- and if you don't start the clock for exclusivity you don't get to the end of exclusivity and get the best pricing once it's over is that right? Meredith that's correct.
And I think accompanying that statement is as a result of our buying scale we have said that we can maximize our opportunities when there are 3 or more players in the marketplace and that typically happens once the exclusivity period expires.
Research Division</strong> So the plan to put Lipitor on the Tier 1 is only a stopgap or an interim measure to drive people into Lipitor so that when you finally have multi-sourcing you've maximized the opportunity? Yes that's correct.
And it's also up to kind of maximize the use of Lipitor versus other branded versions other branded patents.
So that when the product breaks open you get the maximum savings for the customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I have one final question about Lipitor.
I assume that when you give out all your guidance in December that you will kind of try to explain what happens if Lipitor comes -- it doesn't -- let's just say Ranbaxy doesn't even come out until March or April what that means for your profitability.
Because I don't -- does anybody have any idea when they're going to be able to put product in the market? Yes I think Meredith this is Dave.
Yes by Analyst Day we should have a lot more clarity on the subject given their target launch date.
And so we'll have that behind us and we'll be able to lay out.
It's basically up to the FDA.
I mean they are still awaiting clearance from the FDA and that's not something we have insight into or have control over.
Okay.
Thanks everyone for your time and your interest today and we will look forward to seeing you in December.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Q4 CVS Caremark Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 8 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm here with Larry Merlo President and CEO who'll provide a business update; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will provide a financial review.
Per Lofberg President of our PBM business; and Mark Cosby President of CVS/pharmacy are also with us today and they'll participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] During this call we'll discuss some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our company's performance namely free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
Please note that we also posted slides and supplemental financial schedules on our website this morning that summarize the information on this call as well as key facts and figures around our operating performance and guidance so you may want to check those out.
As always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
Finally please note that we expect to file our Form 10-K by the close of business on February 21 and it will be available through our website at that time.
Now before we begin our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and that you review the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements in our most recently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Nancy and good morning everyone.
Hopefully you've had a chance to read through our press release this morning.
And we're obviously very pleased with the strong financial results we posted along with the great progress we made across the enterprise last year.
Our accomplishments in 2011 set a solid foundation for future growth and as we outlined for you in our Analyst Day in December we look forward to an even better year in 2012.
We reported adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.89 for the fourth quarter $2.80 for the full year with Retail results in line with our guidance and PBM results exceeding our guidance.
Overall we generated about $700 million in free cash flow in the quarter bringing the 2011 total to $4.6 billion which beats our goal.
And Dave will provide the details of our results as well as guidance during his financial review.
So with that let me address what I know is the #1 question on everyone's mind: What benefit has  CVS/pharmacy seen from Walgreen no longer participating in the Express Scripts Retail network? Well as we have said previously the benefit was not material to our results in the fourth quarter although it did start to ramp up late in the year.
Now since the start of this year we are seeing a significant number of transfers from Walgreens into CVS.
In fact the amount is a bit more than we anticipated.
We have spent the last several weeks focused on ensuring that Express Scripts members have uninterrupted convenient access to pharmacy care and excellent customer service and the feedback to-date from our new customers has been excellent.
Our pharmacy teams have been doing a terrific job in making sure that the transfer process is as easy as possible and we will continue to do as much as we can to provide superior service to these new customers.
And with that in mind we have made investments in store labor and marketing that we believe will enhance our success in capitalizing on this significant opportunity.
Now based on the early results we believe we are gaining more than our fair share of this business.
And in light of this we are now projecting that earnings per share will benefit by approximately $0.03 per share in the first quarter should the situation remain unresolved for the duration of the quarter.
And as you're aware that's $0.01 higher than the estimate provided at Analyst Day.
As a result we are increasing our guidance for the first quarter and full year to reflect this first quarter benefit and we now expect to achieve adjusted EPS for 2012 in the range of $3.18 to $3.28.
As I said Dave will review the specific details.
But that said please note that we are not increasing our guidance for the remaining quarters of the year as the situation is fluid and is not within our control.
And as everyone is aware Walgreens and Express Scripts could come to an agreement at any point in time.
So we are taking this one quarter at a time.
We would encourage you to only include the benefit in your models for the first quarter.
We will report the estimated impact from this impasse to you on a quarter-by-quarter basis throughout the year if it remains unresolved.
So with that let me turn to a brief business update and I'll begin with PBM.
The 2012 selling season continues on a positive trajectory and with 90% of the contracts scheduled for renewal in 2012 completed our retention rate stands at 98%.
As for new business our net new business wins now total $7.2 billion.
That's up from the $6.8 billion provided on Analyst Day.
And we won some new accounts and our estimate for the number of new Medicare Part D lives for 2012 has increased to 200 000 lives.
And that's predominantly driven by the auto-assigned beneficiaries and that brings our PDP lives up to approximately 3.6 million to date.
Now in addition to net new business wins recall that we expect another $5.5 billion in revenues associated with CVS Caremark becoming the PBM or the PDP acquired from Universal American in 2011 and with Universal American's Medicare Advantage plan.
Another PBM was serving these plans; that relationship terminated at the end of '11.
So after adding this to our net the new business to date our 2012 impact revenues are currently $12.7 billion and that is up from the $12.3 billion projected on Analyst Day.
So obviously there's a lot to be pleased with these results of our 2012 selling season and again we believe that driving top line growth will be an important component of successfully growing our operating profit over time.
And I guess everyone's aware that 2013 selling season is underway.
It's very early in the game so we'll report on that in future quarters.
Now we talked at length on Analyst Day about our integrated offerings that capitalize on what we're calling our integration sweet spots and these are the products and services that are extremely difficult for standalone PBMs or standalone pharmacy retailers to replicate.
And as illustrated by the results of our 2012 selling season our flagship programs Maintenance Choice and Pharmacy Advisor are resonating in the marketplace and they continue to deliver great results for clients and their members.
We currently have approximately 10.2 million lives covered under 835 plans that have implemented or committed to implement Maintenance Choice through March of this year and that's up from 9.9 million lives at our last update.
I think it's interesting to note here that 59% of the clients using Maintenance Choice in 2012 had voluntary mail plans prior to adoption.
And if you compare that back to 2009 when the product was first introduced that number was only 20% back then.
The former voluntary mail clients adapting Maintenance Choice back in 2009 saw their 90-day utilization increase from about 37% to 65% and as a result recognizing significant savings.
So armed with this compelling data we continue to demonstrate that Maintenance Choice has been successful in broadening access while reducing costs and improving prescription drug adherence.
Now with our anticipated launch of Maintenance Choice 2.0 we expect the number of clients taking advantage of this offering to increase dramatically over the next few years.
And recall that this next-generation product will enhance the member experience for all legacy and new Maintenance Choice clients.
Moreover Maintenance Choice 2.0 does not require clients to adopt restrictive benefit designs so we expect that more clients will try 2.0 to recognize at least some of the savings associated with Maintenance Choice.
And we believe these enhancements will provide a transformative member experience that further differentiates CVS Caremark in the marketplace.
This program will be rolled out on a limited basis this year and we expect to make it broadly available beginning in January of '13.
And as you may have seen in their press release one of our new clients with a July 12 implementation the Pennsylvania Employees Benefits Trust actually cited Maintenance Choice 2.0 as one of the primary reasons for selecting CVS Caremark as their PBM.
As for Pharmacy Advisor we have also experienced additional uptake.
Our data has demonstrated that we are identifying important opportunities for cost savings while improving adherence and closing gaps in care.
We have 15.9 million lives covered by almost 900 clients committed to implement Pharmacy Advisor for diabetes thus far and that is up from over 12 million lives at year end.
Again as we announced on Analyst Day we're expanding Pharmacy Advisor to one new disease state this year and to several other targeted disease states in 2013 and we're doing this through a comprehensive initiative that we're calling Pharmacy Advisor 3.0.
We're excited to report that we have already signed up 344 clients covering 8.8 million lives for Pharmacy Advisor for cardiovascular disease and that will be available in the spring of this year.
Additionally we have made very significant opportunities to expand the program by offering Pharmacy Advisor to other major client segments and a case in point here is Aetna.
And we have the opportunity to offer the program to Aetna's 8 million commercial lives as they begin the migration to our systems this year.
And we plan to offer Pharmacy Advisor to our Medicare clients for 2013 implementations as well.
Now among other cost savings programs we continue to encourage adoption of plan designs to improve generic dispensing rates.
Today 355 clients representing about 8.4 million lives have adopted generic step therapy plans and that's a 23% increase in lives from our last update.
And then moving on to some of the highest growth areas for the PBM we saw significant growth in our Specialty Pharmacy business with revenues increasing a very strong 31% this quarter.
That was driven by healthy underlying growth as well as the addition of the Aetna specialty business.
As you know we're also very committed to growing our Medicare Part D business and this is in light of prescription utilization trends of seniors as well as the potential displacement of lives due to a larger number of employers who may decide to shift their retirees to an EGWP program or simply into the open PDP marketplace as we approach the elimination of the RDS tax subsidy in 2013.
And with that in mind we recently agreed to acquire Health Net's PDP.
We expect the deal to close in the second quarter and that will shift from our PBM to our PDP about 400 000 lives bringing our total PDP lives to approximately 4 million.
Now we've had a long-standing relationship with Health Net having served as their PBM for the past 12 years and we expect to transition various services from the closing again in the second quarter through 2013.
Now before turning to Retail let me touch briefly on the PBM streamlining initiative which is proceeding on track.
We expect the benefit from the initiative will outweigh the costs this year and we continue to expect to hit the run rate of annual savings of between $225 million and $275 million in 2014.
And as we've said previously through this initiative we're streamlining PBM operations to improve productivity rationalizing capacity and consolidating our adjudication platforms to one destination platform with enhanced capabilities.
On January 1 we migrated our larger health plan clients to the destination platform and as we sit here today all of our Medicare Part D business is now on that platform as well.
And we expect to migrate additional clients throughout the year.
So I think it's pretty clear that our PBM is performing well making continued great progress and is fully expected to return to healthy operating profit growth this year.
Let me turn to our Retail business which is certainly in the midst of an exciting industry-driven opportunity.
And as I noted earlier in the first several weeks of this year we are posting strong pharmacy comps at levels that we have not seen in quite a while.
In the fourth quarter our same-store sales increased 2.5%.
That was at the high end of our guidance range.
Late in the year we did begin to see some incremental growth from the stalemate between Walgreens and Express.
Our pharmacy comps increased 3.6% in the fourth quarter with script comps up 4.4% on a 30-day supply basis.
Our script unit comps continue to outpace all of our primary competitors and our pharmacy share grew by approximately 75 basis points nationally 85 basis points in the markets in which we operate versus a year ago.
Our pharmacy comps were negatively impacted by approximately 235 basis points from new generics in the quarter.
In addition pharmacy comps benefited from the continued growth of Maintenance Choice which added approximately 160 basis points on a net basis.
And furthermore despite a very weak flu season flu shots administered by CVS pharmacists nearly doubled versus the prior year which also helped to drive our pharmacy comps.
Now turning to the front store our market share increased 39 basis points in our class of trade 11 basis points in the food drug and mass channel versus last year.
Traffic turned positive in the fourth quarter with front store comps increasing slightly in the quarter.
Christmas sales were a bit lower than we had planned and flu-related front store sales were impacted by the weak flu season.
Store brand and proprietary products made up 17.9% of front store sales in the quarter.
That was up 10 basis points from a year ago as consumers remain value-conscious.
We continue to make progress on our clustering initiatives.
420 Urban Cluster stores were completed by year end.
We expect to add approximately 50 more this year.
And also this year we're expanding our efforts to develop and test additional clustering concepts that came out of our trip segmentation work and we believe these efforts around localization are a key component to optimizing the return on capital of our remodel program.
As for our real estate program we opened 29 new or relocated CVS stores and closed one resulting in 23 net new stores for the quarter.
And for the full year we opened 247 new or relocated stores closing 16 resulting in 145 net new stores and that equates to Retail square footage growth of 2.6%.
Let me touch briefly on MinuteClinic which continues to grow and achieve its targets.
We ended the year with 657 clinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia and we have cared for more than 11 million patients since the company's inception.
We added about 100 clinics in 2011 and we believe our plans to double our clinic count over the next several years will position us well to play an important role in providing care to the newly insured beginning in 2014.
Now despite the very weak flu season MinuteClinic revenues increased nearly 40% in the fourth quarter versus last year.
We continue to add new services and raise awareness.
It's just this one example with the new Texas law requiring college students to be vaccinated against meningitis prior to the January school start.
We actually launched a marketing campaign in our 3 Texas markets that resulted in a 50% increase in vaccinations.
MinuteClinic continues to enhance its role as a collaborator with integrated health networks and during the fourth quarter we entered into several additional affiliations with prominent healthcare systems including Emory Healthcare the Carolinas HealthCare System and UMass Memorial Health Care.
And MinuteClinic now has affiliations with 14 of the nation's leading health systems which will help position us well for future growth and clinical collaboration.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for his financial review.
Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide a detailed review of our fourth quarter financial results.
I'll also update our 2012 guidance for the first quarter as well as the full year.
Now first let me start with the wrap-up of our 2011 capital allocation program.
We paid approximately $670 million in dividends last year which was an increase of 41% over 2010 levels.
And at our Analyst Day we announced that our quarterly dividend would increase this year by another 30% our ninth consecutive year with an increase.
And given our earnings expectations for this year we anticipate a payout ratio of 21% to 22% placing us comfortably on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 25% to 30% by 2015.
In regard to share repurchase during the fourth quarter we completed the buyback associated with the 2010 authorization for which we had approximately $450 million left at the end of the third quarter.
With this we repurchased a total of 12.6 million shares.
We also settled the final balance of our August accelerated share repurchase transaction adding another 1.6 million shares to our treasury stock.
In total we repurchased 83.7 million shares at an average cost of $35.85 per share and we spent approximately $3 billion in 2011.
So between dividends and share repurchases we returned more than $3.5 billion to our shareholders last year.
It is my expectation that at a minimum the remaining $3 billion on the 2011 repurchase authorization will be used in 2012 and that will allocate roughly $3.8 billion to enhancing shareholder value through both repurchases as well as a dividends.
Our capital allocation program will remain a vital component of providing shareholder value taking advantage of the powerful cash flow generation capabilities of CVS Caremark both now and in the long run.
As Larry said we generated $4.6 billion of free cash last year with our inventory initiative helping us to surpass the high end of our guidance range by more than $300 million.
In the fourth quarter we generated approximately $700 million of free cash a decrease of more than $830 million over the same period of last year.
This decrease was primarily driven by the timing of CMS funds received in September associated with premiums and subsidies for Medicare Part D which were earned in October.
On our last call I mentioned this as the main driver behind the third quarter's free cash flow increase.
So this is merely the equal and opposite impact from the reversal in the fourth quarter.
Partially offsetting this was be inventory improvement that resulted from our 2000 initiative that targeted a $1 billion reduction in Retail inventories.
And I'm happy to report that during the fourth quarter we reduced our related Retail inventories by another $690 million bringing the full year total to approximately $1.5 billion surpassing our $1 billion inventory reduction goal.
And as with prior quarters you can see the improvements we made in accounts payables and inventory on the balance sheet as well as in our strong cash flow.
Inventory days within the Retail segment is nearly 6 days better than it was at the end of last year and DPO has improved by nearly 2 days.
We've reduced our Retail cash cycle by more than 8 days and we've identified some additional opportunities for improvement.
The team has set an inventory reduction target of $500 million in 2012 as we continue to make process improvements.
That reduction target is above and beyond the net impact of inflation and generic convergence on our inventory levels.
So working capital improvements are expected to continue to enhance our cash generation capabilities well into the future.
Net capital spending in the fourth quarter was $123 million an improvement from $243 million last year due to the increased amount of sale-leaseback proceeds during the quarter.
We completed approximately $580 million in sale-leasebacks in the fourth quarter versus approximately $380 million in the prior year.
For the full year our net capital spending was approximately $1.3 billion or about $200 million less than the prior year.
Turning to the income statement adjusted earnings per share was $0.89 for the quarter while GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations came in at $0.84 per share.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the fourth quarter increased by more than 15% to $28.3 billion.
Drilling down by segments net -- down by our segments net revenues grew by 32% in the PBM to $15.9 billion.
The majority of the increase from last year was driven by the addition of the Universal America -- American and Aetna businesses to our book.
However we did see higher revenues than expected due to stronger volumes from new managed Medicaid client starts during Q4 as well as some higher-than-usual stocking up by members at the end of last year.
PBM pharmacy network revenues in the quarter increased 41% from 2010 levels to $10.9 billion while pharmacy network claims grew by 46%.
Total mail choice revenues increased by 18% to $4.9 billion while mail choice claims expanded by 8%.
Our overall mail choice penetration rate was 20.8% down approximately 530 basis points versus LY.
This decrease was driven entirely by the addition of Aetna and the Universal American Med D businesses both of which have lower mail penetration rates than the average book of our business.
In our Retail segment we saw revenues increase 4% in the quarter to $15.5 billion.
This increase was primarily driven by our same-store sales increase of 2.5% as well as net revenues from new stores relocations and MinuteClinic which accounted for approximately 150 basis points of the increase.
And Larry talked about our pharmacy and front store comps in some detail so I won't repeat it here.
Turning to gross margin the consolidated company reported 19.6% in the quarter while gross margin contracted approximately 260 basis points compared to Q4 '10 and improved approximately 115 basis points since Q1 of '11.
Within the PBM segment we saw a sequential gross margin improvement of approximately 20 basis points but gross margin was down approximately 75 basis points versus last year's fourth quarter.
This was better than expected as our cost of goods sold benefited from better purchasing.
The decline versus last year mainly reflects the price compression associated with contract renewals as well as the impact of the addition of the Aetna business.
Partially offsetting these were the positive margin impact from the 220 basis point increase in the PBM's generic dispensing rate which grew from 72.8% to 75% as well as better purchasing.
Gross margin in the Retail segment was 29.7% up approximately 45 basis points sequentially mainly due to the higher mix of front store purchases associated with the holiday season.
Gross margin at the Retail -- at Retail decreased approximately 140 basis points versus last year.
As we expected we saw gross margin pressure from pharmacy reimbursement rates the growth of Maintenance Choice and planned holiday promotions.
However the weaker-than-expected holiday sales caused margin decline a bit more than we had forecasted.
These unfavorable factors were partially offset by the benefit from various front store initiatives increased store brand penetration and increased generic dispensing rates with Retail GDR increasing by 210 basis points to 75.9%.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by approximately 230 basis points versus the fourth quarter of '10.
The PBM segment's SG&amp;A rate improved by 30 basis points to 1.8%.
This was primarily due to expense leverage gained by the addition of the large Aetna contract which was partially offset by the impact of our acquisition of the Universal American Med D business.
In the Retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved by approximately 160 basis points to 20.4%.
This improvement in expense leverage was driven by solid sales growth and continued discipline around expense control.
Within the Corporate segment expenses were down approximately $15 million to $152 million or less than 1% of consolidated revenues improving by approximately 15 basis points versus the same period of last year.
With the change in gross margin more than offsetting the improvement in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales operating margin for the total enterprise declined by approximately 25 basis points to 6.9% as we expected.
Operating margin in PBM was 4.6% down about 40 basis points while operating margin at Retail was 9.4% up about 15 basis points.
Retail operating profit which makes up more than 2/3 of the consolidated operating profit achieved continued healthy growth.
It increased 5.9% above the midpoint of our guidance range.
PBM profit increased 21.2% which was well above our guidance range.
Going below the line on the consolidated income statement we saw net interest expense in the quarter increase by approximately $11 million to $147 million versus last year.
Additionally our effective income tax rate was 39.3% and our weighted average share count was 1.31 billion shares.
Now let me update you on our guidance for the first quarter and full year 2012.
With the exception of some tweaks or -- to reflect the impact from the Walgreens-Express Scripts impasse as well as the improved working capital expectations our guidance remains essentially unchanged from Analyst Day.
You can find the details of our guidance in the slide presentation we posted on our website but today I'll focus on the highlights.
We currently expect to deliver adjusted EPS in '12 of between $3.18 and $3.28 per share and GAAP diluted EPS from continued operations of between $2.96 and $3.06 per share reflecting very healthy year-over-year growth of 13.5% to 17%.
This includes the $0.03 benefit we expect to see during the first quarter only resulting from the Walgreens-Express Scripts impasse.
As Larry said we are assessing the impact on a quarter-by-quarter basis and we'll update our guidance as needed as we move throughout the year.
Taking into account the impact from the prescription transfers we currently expect consolidated net revenue growth of between 12% and 13.5%.
This is a reflection of strong revenue growth across the enterprise but especially in the PBM following another great selling season.
Recall that our estimates includes one extra day in 2012 versus '11 for leap year.
Within the Retail segment we now expect revenues to increase year-over-year by 3% to 4% reflecting an impact from the impasse of about 100 basis points.
Gross margin in this segment is expected to be moderately up over 2011 levels while operating expenses as a percent of revenue should modestly de-lever.
As a result operating profit in the Retail segment is expected to grow between 8.5% and 10.5%.
Guidance within the PBM segment remains unchanged from Analyst Day and we still expect PBM operating profit to increase between 11% and 15%.
For the first quarter adding the $0.03 benefit from the impasse we now expect adjusted EPS of between $0.61 and $0.63 reflecting growth of 7.5% to 11% over the same period of last year.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $0.55 to $0.57 in the first quarter.
Consolidated revenues are expected to increase 17% to 18.5%.
In the Retail segment revenues are expected to increase 8% to 9% versus the first quarter of '11.
Same-store sales growth is expected to be in the range of 6.5% to 7.5% and same-store script the growth is expected to be in the range of 5.5% to 6.5%.
While the majority of the top line increase is due to the benefit from the script transfers from Walgreens we also have added some growth reflecting increase in drug inflation which is helping to offset some of the deflation from new generic introductions.
We assume that we will see this through the first quarter but we are not including any expectations that this will last beyond Q1.
Operating profit in the Retail segment is now expected to grow between 14% and 16% during the fourth quarter an increase from the 8% to 10% we guided on Analyst Day.
Guidance for the PBM segment remains unchanged for the quarter.
In addition we are increasing our free cash flow guidance to the range of $4.6 million to $4.9 billion up about $300 million from our previous guidance.
A part of the increase is due to the flow-through of the additional $0.03 associated with the script transfers but the bulk of the increase reflects greater optimism around our ability to improve working capital management especially in accounts payable.
This is above and beyond the improvement we are targeting in Retail inventory.
I am very pleased with our significant and growing cash flow generation capabilities which as I said will play an important role in driving shareholder value both now and well into the future.
And with that I will turn it back to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Dave.
Let me just summarize here.
I think we closed 2011 with a very good quarter earnings solidly in line and free cash flow ahead of target.
Once again we delivered on our promises.
I think as you heard 2012 is off to a great start and today we've increased our earnings and cash flow guidance to reflect the industry opportunity we're capitalizing on as well as greater confidence around our working capital management.
We absolutely remain focused on driving shareholder value and our productive long-term growth significant cash generation and disciplined capital allocation will continue to be important drivers of returning value to our shareholders.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citigroup.
This is Shane on the line for Deb today.
Just wanted to talk about the front end a little bit.
Obviously it seemed a little bit weaker than expected and you mentioned that.
I'm just kind of looking of trends in January and how has that kind of changed or has there been any differences that you've seen? Yes Shane I think as we outlined in our remarks we saw some weakness in the flu season which impacted our front store growth as well as disappointing holiday sales around the Christmas products.
That element of it is behind us and I think as we outlined our comp guidance for the first quarter we are expecting to see stronger front store trends than we saw in Q4.
And is that something that you're seeing currently or is that what you're...
No we are seeing that currently.
Yes.
And then just kind of looking ahead to like the PBM selling season obviously you guys seem to have a pretty strong negotiating position.
And how are you guys trying to position yourselves with kind of Walgreens and Express and all the other things that are going on in the industry? It's still very early in the season as you guys know and there are a number of RFP processes that are underway and a number -- many more that we expect to begin in a couple months.
I don't think the Express-Walgreens issue per se is a particularly significant factor.
I think there will be a lot of opportunities for us to feature our set of solutions and our integrated capabilities and so forth.
I do think that there will be an interest in comparing the cost savings and the benefits from restricted networks going forward and that is probably to some extent prompted by the Express-Walgreens impasse but that will be just one factor that people will be interested in.
And Shane at the same time we are expecting to see more RFPs out in the marketplace this year.
The benefit consultants are driving that with the Express-Medco deal on the horizon.
So we do see more activity coming but as Per mentioned it's very early especially on the employer side of the selling season.
And if I could just do one quick follow-up on that restricted network what types of savings are you guys hearing like that clients are -- or people would like to -- if you can -- are looking to get from a more restricted network? If you're allowed to talk about that or are able to...
I think you probably have to show savings of at least a couple of percent for it to be a meaningful benefit to a customer and to justify the disruption that is inevitable when you change the network.
Obviously the more restrictive the network is the deeper the savings are that you can propose.
So it is sort of a sliding scale.
And our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that line of questioning Per Larry.
Are you seeing more interest in narrow networks because of this dispute number one? And then number two Larry I know you mentioned that you thought there would be more business out to bid.
Can you maybe just help us to frame the amount of business that you have out to bid for 2013? Yes Lisa.
I'll take the second question and I'll ask Per to comment.
We have about $16 billion up for renewal in this selling season and that would exclude the Med D business which as you know is kind of up for renewal every year.
And Lisa just to elaborate a little bit on the restricted networks I think our expectation is that we will frequently be asked to quote on different network configurations and that we'll be asked to provide different levels of savings for different sizes of networks and all of our discussions with the benefit consultants sort of indicate that that will probably be one of the variables that will be in play this year.
Research Division</strong> Per have you been surprised that there hasn't been more noise around the exclusion of Walgreens and Express Scripts network? As you know we talk to a lot of consultants and plan sponsors and it doesn't appear to us that there's been a lot of disruption because of this.
Obviously maybe it's because CVS has done such a great job of taking over the scripts but can you talk about your experience? Are you hearing from any of these clients that say I want to switch because I don't -- I do want Walgreens in my network? Nothing of that Lisa.
I mean I have to actually tip my hat here to our competitor Express.
I think they have done an excellent job really making this change very smooth for their customers and many of their clients that I've spoken to that actually have gone through this have been  theyve been very clear that this has not really been a big deal for them.
Research Division</strong> I guess and then just one follow-up to you Larry would just be that if they did come to some kind of resolution generally speaking how sticky are the scripts that have moved? So those people that have moved in January how much of that business would you anticipate that you could retain if they ever came to a resolution? Lisa that's a great question and we really don't have a benchmark against this.
As I've said in the past we know that that pharmacy customer is the hardest person to lose but once you lose them it's the hardest person to get back.
And I believe the longer this goes on the more sticky the customer will be especially as they have the opportunity to refill their prescription a few times and get to know the pharmacist and the staff in the store.
And obviously our Retail teams are doing a great job in terms of doing everything that they can to engage those new customers.
And our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
So Larry the improvement on the front end are you seeing anything that you can tie to the Walgreen benefit or really not very much? Yes John there's a little bit there but as we were just talking with Lisa's question the focus right now is making sure that that transfer process and the administrative tasks associated with that that is front and center in terms of what our store teams are focused on executing.
And we're just beginning the process of getting these new customers enrolled in ExtraCare as an example.
So I think it's going to take several weeks to really shake out what the front store impact of this will be.
And Mark can talk a little bit about some of the investments that we're making with that in mind.
Well clearly when the whole impasse began we set up a plan to address what the opportunity could be.
And we had several initiatives underway.
We had several on the marketing front both in terms of our circular and our TV.
And we did a lot in terms of staffing and in terms of the resources by store and in terms of inventory that we deployed by store to be ready for it.
But the biggest push was around service making sure that every new customer that came into our store had a great experience and that continues to be our biggest push.
As we go forward it's now about retention so putting programs in place to make sure that the folks that do come into our store have a great experience and they stay with us.
LLC Research Division</strong> And now the $0.03 benefit is net of whatever investment you're making in staffing and marketing right? That's correct John.
LLC Research Division</strong> So do you still think -- because that's front loaded do you still think that if this thing goes on for the rest of the year there's a bigger benefit in the back half after those investments moderate or no? Well I think we'll have -- well I want to play it quarter by quarter John.
But we're very focused on executing at the store level today making sure that the transfers -- that we give the best service possible and we'll assess it after we get a few more weeks under our belt.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as you look at that windfall and I asked you at the analyst meeting is there anything you can find where you can invest some of these onetime windfall in the business either PBM or Retail to strengthen the franchise and take advantage of this windfall or not really? Well John at the end of the day we look at all the cash generation capabilities of the company and look to invest that money with the highest return possible for our shareholders.
So we won't assess this any other way than that.
So we'll keep looking for projects to either invest in our core business that has high return on investment for it or we'll look to dividends and share repurchases to enhance value as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well I meant more can you add labor in the stores or put it into pricing on the PBM or not capital so much but on operating expense so the benefit to the P&amp;L would be less but maybe more lasting and maybe more of an annuity? Yes.
But I think we look at those as the same way John.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then one final thing.
How did the whole Medco-Express kind of in limbo here impact the timing of selling season decisions? Maybe it's too early.
Maybe it has to go on another month or 2 but is that impacting anything you see in terms of how people are making decisions or the timeline? I don't think it's affecting the timing very much John.
The timing of RFP processes is basically very much driven by the contract term and the time it takes to transition accounts.
Health plan accounts take longer to transition than employer accounts and therefore they tend to start a little earlier.
I don't think that the Express-Medco merger per se is affecting the timing.
I do think that the uncertainty around that certainly has given fuel to benefit consultants to really sort of recommend that clients go out to bid and we'll certainly see market activity as a result of that.
And our next question comes from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie group.
This one is for Per.
As we think about the 2013 selling season I think we had a case example recently where a large plan reversed course from a prior decision in terms of favoring the financial bid over the technical bid.
Are we seeing some change in how plans view the bidding process given kind of maybe a longer economic recovery than some people had previously thought back in 2011? I'm not sure I know exactly what you're talking about but I really don't think there is a significant change in the emphasis.
People go out to bid first and foremost because they want to get the best possible economics they can get for their drug programs.
And that I think has not really changed at all.
Clearly though the integrated programs that we have have made a difference here this past year and we kind of expect to see that continue as there is broad adoption of this programs and longer track records in terms of the customer experience with them.
So Maintenance Choice and Maintenance Choice 2.0 the Pharmacy Advisor program and so on that Larry referenced in his speech those are really good features that allow us to kind of really highlight how we can add value to our enterprise.
Great.
And then on the MinuteClinic side could you give us an idea of how profitability is expected to ramp up through the course of 2012? Yes Dane I think as we've communicated in the past in the fourth quarter MinuteClinic actually hit a breakeven status for the first time at what we define as the enterprise level.
And we will expect that to continue even as we expand the MinuteClinics going forward so we're very pleased with what we're seeing there.
And the role that MinuteClinic plays as Per was talking about our integrated programs there's an important MinuteClinic component to many of those.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Really two.
First to Per how important is the Retail pharmacy network when a client is looking at a proposal? I assume it's one of the top 10 but where does it rank in your estimation as people look at proposals? Well it's very important and the primary thing people look at is basically access.
So they look at where their employees and dependents where they live and what geographies have to be covered and the access that they can get to the network configuration that you're proposing.
So it definitely is important and at the end of the day as you know you can meet access standards very successfully with much less than 65 000 pharmacies around the country.
So there is the trade-off to evaluate in terms of how many pharmacies you have in the network and the kind of economics you can offer up.
So that trade-off is very real.
But it certainly is a very very important component of the PBM offering.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And just I assume though that it's among several things that people look at or is it top 1 or 2 in your estimation? No it's 1 of let's say 5 major variables; the mail order program and in our case the Maintenance Choice program.
It's a very important component that adds additional savings opportunities.
The formulary and the rebates that are generated generic programs that maximize the use of generics that also offer additional savings.
I mean those are probably the 4 or 5 major items that go into the calculation.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then I wanted to switch gears to Retail and also kind of bring in the free cash flow.
As I look at what's going on with your business there's clearly going to be starting a bubble of looks like over the next 18 months of just an enormous amount of traffic into those retail stores.
And so that just smacks to me of opportunity.
We haven't seen a real big kind of change in the format of the retail stores or a big re-merchandising effort.
And I was wondering as you look at the opportunity here maybe this is more for Larry how do you see it? I mean to me it seems like there's just a massive opportunity to grow maybe earnings a little bit faster in that Retail segment as you harvest this and also show nice improvements on return on invested capital as a lot of capital is tied up in the Retail segments.
So maybe you could comment on that? Yes Scott.
Let me make a few comments and then I'll ask Mark to comment on some of the initiatives that he has underway that I think addresses that question.
But I think as we heard earlier we're focused on making sure that these customers have just a terrific experience and that they continue and we continue to ensure that there's no interruption in their pharmacy care.
As we've talked many times in the past we'll continue to use ExtraCare as a differentiator in terms of how we can add value for those patients as well as quite frankly how we communicate with those customers.
And I'll ask Mark to talk about some of the work that he has underway around clustering and what future store may have in store if you will.
That's a twofold answer really.
There's a number of things short term that we're doing between improving effectiveness of our promotion looking at our productivity of our spaces in our store particularly the high-traffic areas in our store and then we have a number of things where we're empowering our store teams to take more accountability for sales.
Those are some of the short-term things.
The longer-term things that Larry alluded to the biggest thing we probably have in the works is this clustering initiative.
We had success this past year and the year before with the urban initiative and we have a number of different clustering options that we are looking at right now which we think will have some play in the second half of this year in a test mode and then rollout mode as we go into 2013.
The broader one that Larry alluded to is around what we are calling the store of the future.
So we do have a project underway where we are relooking at everything that we do within our store from the pharmacy to the front of the house in terms of how do we really capitalize on the opportunity that's in front of us.
And we do plan to have some test stores in place in the front part of next year which I think we'll learn a lot both in terms of -- for new stores as we go forward but also for remodel opportunities down the road.
Scott I think the issue around this is that these are not new ideas.
We've talked about this -- many people talked about this in years past.
I think what's different today is that we have the information and we have the technology to execute it.
And that was always the kind of the barrier to entry if you will.
So I think this is going to take some time but I think that the prize here in terms of doing it well is pretty big.
And our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick follow-ups.
Just first back on the restricted network idea 2 questions there.
One how deep do you have to sort of restrict to get toward that 2% type of a savings that you mentioned earlier that might be important for customers to consider it? And is there any I guess strategy around maybe preferred-type networks as opposed to just simply restricting them or narrowing them down where you can go to any network but one is more expensive than another one pharmacy is more expensive than another one? Yes so to your first question Tom I think you have to get to -- to get to like a 2% 3% saving you have to make a pretty significant change in the network maybe bring it down by 20% 30% or something like that to be able to approach those benefits.
It's obviously driven by the value that accrues to people who remain in the network and the increased volume that they can project and the improved pricing that you can derive from that.
So that's sort of a ballpark.
With respect to the preferred networks that's primarily been an opportunity recently in the Med D segment.
You may have seen that last year Humana came out with a program where Walmart was a preferred retailer.
It was a pretty successful program.
They got good traction with that.
This year there were a number of other participants that have similar types of programs including Aetna together with CVS/pharmacy.
So there you have the ability to meet all of the access standards that CMS require and at the same time offer significant copay advantages if members use the preferred retailers.
Research Division</strong> Do you think the preferred type of a strategy is something that could leak into the private sector or there it would be more just narrowing it? It's a good question.
I haven't seen much activity around that on the commercial front but there is no real fundamental reason why that couldn't happen there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the other follow-up was I think you mentioned some better generic purchasing.
I was wondering if you could expand there.
Did that sort of more relate to certain new drugs that were launched or is it older drugs? Or any other color you could offer would be great.
Yes I think what we -- I would just say that the team from a purchasing standpoint has just done a fabulous job throughout 2011 and we continue to push improvements to improve our cost of goods sold outlook and that's just kind of us continuing to work pretty diligently in that space.
So it's kind of across the generics but also on the branded side as well.
And our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I got kicked off the call quickly so if somebody asked this question just tell me and we'll move on.
But your gross margin on the Retail business is something that I want to just ask about.
The 140-basis-point decline it's a little bit of a surprise I think to us even though you guided it down and you had said it was a little disappointing.
Can you help us parse out the individual items there? How much for reimbursements how much for promotions and then how much of that continues going forward into next year? Yes Ed when we provided guidance for the fourth quarter we expected margin to be down.
We talked about continued pressures on pharmacy reimbursement.
What we saw that was incremental to that was largely in the front store as it related to as we mentioned in the prepared remarks a disappointing Christmas selling season.
And as you know those products are in a higher margin and we also incurred some incremental markdowns.
That's a onetime event in nature and it's behind us so we don't need to worry about that as we migrate into Q1.
The other issue really ties to a weaker flu season which in the front end in the OTC categories that is heavily penetrated by store brands which again higher margin.
So that pressured margin and again that is seasonal in nature so we don't see that occurring going forward as well.
Research Division</strong> And just on the reimbursement side how much should we be concerned about that? Well Ed as we talked the reimbursement issues are what we've been managing through for several years now.
We don't see that abating and at the same time we're comfortable in terms of our abilities to manage that going forward.
Research Division</strong> And if Express closes on Medco how does that impact your thought on reimbursements? Is there a risk there? And I guess what I'm getting to is what have you factored into guidance related to that? Well Ed again as we said back at Analyst Day we have worked very hard on the Retail side to position ourselves as a good partner a good long-term partner okay as well as being a low-cost provider.
And we have worked with all the major PBMs with those guiding principles and we see no reason to change that as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just last question for you.
SG&amp;A down about 3.5% in Retail.
It's a pretty big number.
Can you just help us understand where it all came from? Yes this is Dave.
We have been very focused from a cost-containment perspective throughout the Retail division so there's no one initiative that drove that.
I would say that again we've just continued to put in technologies and processes primarily in the pharmacy that have driven productivity gains across the enterprise and that's really what continues to drive it.
And Ed going forward we will continue with that level of focus.
But again as we've discussed previously because of the impact of generics that SG&amp;A leverage that we've seen in the past will be muted to some degree as a result of that.
And our next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones.
One in January you announced that youd settle a 2-year investigation by the FTC and a 24-state task force for nearly $5 million after a lot of complaints by independent pharmacies and consumer groups after the merger of CVS and Caremark.
Based on the feedback you got was a message from the FTC that in their analysis the PBM-Retail combination clearly didn't drive up costs or that there was clearly no evidence of conflict of interest in a limited network or was there some other message that you got from that? Well Larry thanks for asking that question because we are very pleased to have reached an agreement with the FTC that ends a very comprehensive and very extensive review of all of our business practices along with the innovative and differentiated products and services that we're bringing to market.
And we're very pleased that there were no allegations of anti-trust violations no allegations of anticompetitive behavior related to any of our business practices products or service offerings.
So we are full speed ahead in terms of the focus that we have in terms of bringing differentiation that improves health and lower costs.
And so that's my sermon okay? And the other thing that I would acknowledge is that the $5.5 million settlement that related to legacy RxAmerica practices was prior to the acquisition of Longs Drugs so we were again very pleased with the outcome of that and we believe it's a validation of our business model.
Research Division</strong> And to the validation is your message that scale in this case can actually drive down costs and create product innovation or is it just no let's just not be too broad this is really just about CVS and Caremark? No I think this is about CVS and Caremark and I think it quite frankly it speaks to Per's comments earlier in terms of the fact that you have to be priced competitively in the marketplace.
But our products and services are allowing a form of differentiation for CVS Caremark that is allowing us to win disproportionately in the marketplace.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
A quick follow-up just on Medicaid I know you called out some fourth quarter startup costs.
There's been a lot of discussion about states moving more to managed care plans both for duals and those covered under CHIP and I know Per you've called out the opportunity.
Are you able to elaborate a little bit on the opportunity potential benefit of Texas moving to MCOs March of this year? And in that market how able are you to run restricted retail networks? Yes.
I mean we expect to participate in the Texas conversion because we have a number of existing clients down there that will benefit from the move of lives into managed Medicaid.
And I certainly would expect what Texas is doing and what Ohio and New York have done and so on that that will be replicated by many other states in the years to come.
And there are pretty significant cost savings associated with those conversions.
And as you've kind of alluded to restricted networks are possible in the managed Medicaid arena.
And so we participate in a number of states with a number of customers where we have restricted networks in place.
And our next question comes from the line of Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions for you.
First of all as you look at the Retail top line and at the front end in particular and you think about the magnitude of your inventory declines which were quite impressive do you feel like the inventory position or the in-stock could at this point given the very sharp declines be having some impact on your Retail sales? No Matt.
We don't believe that's the case and we've monitored that very closely.
And there were a few isolated geographic issues that were process-related that were very short in duration and those were remedied.
So we're very focused and very careful that it's not at the expense of service levels to our customers.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then my second question if you think about the Express-Walgreens dispute and the possibility that at some point perhaps this is resolved what kind of efforts are you implementing to try to ensure that the business that you win through this dispute is sustainable business for you and that these customers can become long-term customers for you not just temporary customers if you will? Well thanks.
This is Mark again.
As I said upfront big push that we had from the get-go was to make sure that were providing a great experience to each new customer that walked in the door.
And we believe that's the #1 thing that we can do to retain them over time.
We do have a number of other things that we can do both in the front store and the pharmacy including ExtraCare to try and really pushing that program to encourage more loyalty over time.
But probably a big a priority as we have right now is how do we make the experience as good as it can be and retain those customers over time.
And our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of follow-up questions.
First on the market share gains from Walgreens can you quantify for us what percent of the business that you gained you would categorize as maintenance scripts? And do you think that maintenance scripts could be more sticky than overall scripts? Well Ricky recognizing that this situation is -- we're 4 5 weeks into this now we don't have that level of detail at this point in time.
As I mentioned earlier our focus is getting those customers enrolled in our systems and making that transfer process as seamless as we can.
I think it's intuitive that the maintenance customer has the potential to be a stickier customer because they're using the pharmacy on a regular basis versus the individual that has an acute episode that may use the pharmacy once or perhaps twice a year.
And I think a lot of the things that Mark alluded to will be focused on those maintenance customers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one other follow-up on the Specialty business what was the Specialty growth once you exclude kind of the benefit from Aetna? I don't think we have provided that breakout.
We did have very strong growth in Specialty as was reported earlier and a significant component of that was Aetna for sure but the category itself is growing because of just the increased utilization and we've had some additional PBM growth that added to it.
And our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just trying to get a little bit better feel for the marketing battle behind the scenes for the Walgreens business that's up for grabs.
So I guess my 2 questions are is there any sense of a tug-of-war between CVS pushing these customers to Retail versus maybe Express trying to push them to mail order? And do you have any sense of whether the mail order industry overall is picking up any share or do you think that retail scripts are basically just staying in the retail channel? Yes Steve I mean our retail organization has worked very well and very closely with Express in terms of how we can make this as seamless an experience as possible.
And quite frankly as Per mentioned earlier in terms of giving Express a compliment in terms of how they've handled this I too believe they've done a terrific job with both their clients as well as working with -- and I'm sure it's not just CVS it's other retailers as well in terms of working closely to make it as seamless as possible for their members.
And our next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at your PBM business do you anticipate at some point that the revenue growth and the operating income growth will sync up or do you think this is a business that you'll see better revenue growth than operating income growth for the intermediate term? I think you know what our long-term guidance has been on that subject and we've kind of talked about it at Analyst Day.
And so certainly for the foreseeable future over the next several years we expect revenues to grow at a higher rate than the operating income.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just one more question.
Just one other thing any comments on Lipitor? Are you indifferent as to who has market share on the manufacturing side given your dual PBM retail structure? Yes John what we're seeing over the last 2 months is Lipitor is behaving as we had forecasted.
In our Retail business our substitution rate is in the mid-70s at this point in time.
And we expect that that will continue to increase and probably have an acceleration once the exclusivity period expires in late May early June.
And our last question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research Company.
Two questions.
First of all on Walgreens the $0.03 can you split at all the benefit even roughly that you think you're seeing in the pharmacy relative to the front end? Eric we covered that or we touched on that a little earlier it's very early in the game.
We are -- we believe some of the front store lift that we've seen in January is attributable to that but we will -- I think over the next several weeks we'll be able to do a better job of quantifying that as we're able to get these customers enrolled in ExtraCare and so on.
Eric I think in the short-term here at least for the first quarter you think about dominant in pharmacy versus front end.
And then secondly I think you touched on this a little bit but in terms of PBM profits growing faster than you thought in 4Q and I know you didn't do anything different with the '12 PBM profit expectation what was in 4Q that helped and is there a potential that that continues in '12? Well I think we had through 4Q we did see some accelerated utilization in the quarter and I think we're very focused on delivering our expectations in 2012.
And the guidance that we provided at Analyst Day we feel very comfortable on where we stand.
So I don't know if there's anything that's going to wrap if you will into 2012 specifically related on trends in the fourth quarter but we're very confident where we stand today.
Okay.
Well listen we want to thank everyone for your interest and your time this morning and I'm sure we'll talk to many of you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CVS Caremark First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday May 2 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Nancy Christal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm here with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will provide a financial review.
Per Lofberg President of our PBM business; and Mark Cosby President of CVS/pharmacy are also with us today and will participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] During this call we'll discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our company's performance namely free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And we also encourage you to download the slide presentation we posted on our website this morning.
The slides summarize the information on this call as well as key facts and figures around our operating performance and guidance.
As always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
Finally please note that we filed our Form 10-Q this morning and it's available through our website.
Now before we begin our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation we'll make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and that you review the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements in our most recently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Nancy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
Well we're certainly very pleased with the results we posted this morning.
We reported adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.65 for the first quarter with both retail and PBM results coming in at the high end of our expectations and EPS exceeding the high end of our guidance by $0.02.
And while our operating results came in at the high end of our expectations the EPS beat was driven by financial-related items including the change in inventory accounting methods interest and lower shares outstanding resulting from our successful capital allocation program all of which Dave will cover more fully in his update.
But overall this was a terrific quarter with strong results across-the-board including our cash generation.
In the first quarter we achieved the expected $0.03-per-share benefit from the impasse between Walgreens and Express Scripts.
For the second quarter we are projecting a $0.03 to $0.04 EPS benefit from the impasse assuming the situation remains unresolved for the duration of the quarter.
The benefit is expected to be slightly higher than the first quarter primarily driven by greater operating efficiency in our pharmacies and we'll also see a full quarter's run rate of ESI script volumes that transferred throughout the first quarter as well as a modest ramp in the front store benefit from these new customers.
As a result of our strong first quarter results as well as the inclusion of the Walgreens-Express benefit in the second quarter we are raising our guidance for the full year.
We now expect to achieve adjusted earnings per share for 2012 in the range of $3.23 to $3.33 with both ends of the range up $0.05 from our February guidance and up $0.08 from our initial guidance which we provided at our December Analyst Day.
And please remember that we are taking the Walgreens-Express benefit one quarter at a time.
We're not projecting benefits to quarters beyond the current one.
So we would encourage you to only include the benefit in your models through the second quarter.
We will report the estimated impact from this impasse to you again on a quarter-by-quarter basis throughout the year if it remains unresolved.
And as I said Dave will provide the details of our results as well as guidance for the second quarter and full year during his financial review.
Now let me turn to a brief business update and I'll begin with our PBM.
As you know we had a terrific 2012 selling season winning $7.1 billion in net new business on top of another $5.5 billion in incremental revenues from the Universal American contracts we picked up this year.
So we expect to add $12.6 billion in net new revenues in 2012 with a 98% retention rate.
And while it's still early in the '13 selling season we're optimistic about the opportunities and continue to feel very good about our unique position in the marketplace.
We are bullish about the receptivity to our model along with our proprietary programs.
Now there's obviously a lot of change in the marketplace related to the Walgreens-Express impasse as well as recent significant PBM consolidation activity.
But the market continues to be competitive yet rational and with our stable business and unmatched breadth of capabilities we believe we are very well positioned for success now and in the future.
So let me touch on renewals.
To date about 1/4 of our scheduled renewals have gone through the renewal process which is pretty typical for this time of year.
And while we previously said we had approximately $16 billion up for renewal in '13 the number dropped to about $14.5 billion largely due to the Health Net Med D PDP acquisition.
And since we acquired the business we're no longer including that contract in our renewal number.
So given that it's still early in the season we have about 3 quarters or $11 billion left to go through the renewal process and we'll have a lot more to say about renewals as well as new business as we get further along in the selling season.
Now I do want to take a minute to address our recent decision to remove certain drugs from our formulary.
And some of you have asked about this and have written about the issue based on market chatter.
Let me clarify it.
For those who may not be familiar we made the decision to remove or require prior authorization for 34 drugs from our formulary.
And to be clear this change only applies to customers using our standard or template formulary.
It does not apply to any of our customers with a custom formulary which would include most of the health plans and some of our large employers.
The 34 drugs we removed from our template formulary totaled only about 1.5% of the drug spend and we made this decision in an effort to take unnecessary costs out of the system for our clients.
Now I recently attended our CVS Caremark client forum.
We had in excess of 700 participants in attendance and we had the opportunity to listen to our customers.
And we were able to discuss the formulary change.
What I heard from our clients was some dissatisfaction around the timing and the method of communicating the change but not the philosophy of the change itself.
Our clients understand the challenges we are dealing with regarding brand inflation along with the proliferation of manufacturer coupons which encourage the use of more expensive drug therapies.
And they count on us to help them manage the drug spend.
So we've certainly listened intently to client feedback.
And going forward we will make sure that any future changes get communicated earlier.
I think it's also important to note that since we implemented the change there has been limited to no disruption to our members.
So I hope that clarifies the formulary change for you.
And while this decision has gained some prominence in the marketplace we are confident that over the long term this is the right decision one that will drive savings for our existing clients as well as future clients while in no way compromising the clinical integrity of our offering.
So let me move on and provide an update on the progress we're making on selling our integrated offerings that capitalize on what we've been calling our integration sweet spots.
And as you know and as we've mentioned many times these are the products and services that are extremely difficult for stand-alone PBMs and pharmacy retailers to replicate.
We currently have about 10.5 million lives covered under 850 plans that have implemented or committed to implement Maintenance Choice.
And we have compelling data to share with clients demonstrating that Maintenance Choice has been successful in broadening access while reducing costs and improving prescription adherence.
We're making Maintenance Choice enhancements and we believe they will provide a transformative member experience that will further differentiate CVS Caremark in the marketplace.
And we're giving members what they want.
They want more control and more flexibility in managing their maintenance medications.
The next generation of Maintenance Choice that we have been referring to is Maintenance Choice 2.0 includes a less restrictive or voluntary plan design option.
And with our anticipated launch of 2.0 we expect the number of clients taking advantage of our Maintenance Choice offerings to increase dramatically over the next few years.
And we expect many clients who have not yet adopted Maintenance Choice to try this version of the program and to recognize at least some of the savings associated with Maintenance Choice.
And this new plan design option along with the enhancements that we're making for both legacy and new Maintenance Choice clients will be rolled out on a limited basis this year.
And then we expect to make it broadly available beginning in January of '13.
And once clients experience the benefits and savings of the program we expect that some will consider adopting the more restrictive Maintenance Choice plan design option so they can maximize their savings.
As for Pharmacy Advisor again we have made very significant progress and our data demonstrates that we are identifying important opportunities for cost savings while improving adherence and closing gaps in care.
And as an example following one year on the program recent analysis showed that certain members using CVS retail experienced a 17.2% decline in gaps in care while members using Caremark mail experienced a 12.8% decline.
And that compares with a 0.4% increase in gaps in care for a control group of members without Pharmacy Advisor.
As for adherence to lipid-lowering medication Pharmacy Advisor users had 26% lower first fill drop-off rates while mail users had 10.3% lower drop-off rates relative to a control group.
We now have more than 16 million lives covered by almost 900 clients committed to implement Pharmacy Advisor for diabetes and that's up from 12 million lives at year-end 2011.
Pharmacy Advisor is targeted to become available to both Medicare and Medicaid clients in '13.
And once that occurs we estimate that this program could potentially touch about 47 million lives over time.
This past month we launched Pharmacy Advisor for a suite of cardiovascular conditions.
And we plan to go live in January of '13 with 5 additional programs for depression asthma COPD osteoporosis and breast cancer.
And I think Pharmacy Advisor is just a great example of how our integrated assets are improving the health of those we serve in a very differentiated way.
Now moving onto some of the highest growth areas for the PBM.
Once again we saw significant increases in our Specialty Pharmacy business with revenues climbing 46.3% for the quarter.
Primary drivers of the growth were the new payors such as the Federal Employee Plan CalPERS IBM new product launches primarily in the Hep C and oncology areas along with inflation.
And excluding the addition of the Aetna specialty business which we began filling in the second quarter of last year specialty revenues still increased a very strong 34% versus last year's first quarter.
Our Med D business also continues to grow.
We recently completed the acquisition of Health Net's PDP and that shifted about 425 000 lives from our PBM to our PDP bringing our total PDP lives to approximately 4 million.
And we expect the transition to one enrollment system for the 2013 Med D plan year.
Before turning to retail let me touch briefly on the Aetna contract and the PBM streamlining initiative.
With regard to Aetna we've completed the transition of both specialty fulfillment and mail fulfillment to our facilities and our focus now is on the migration of Aetna's clients onto our platform.
As for the streamlining initiative it's on track to deliver over $1 billion in cumulative cost savings through 2015.
As we've said through this initiative we're streamlining operations to improve productivity rationalizing capacity and consolidating our adjudication platforms to one destination platform with enhanced capabilities.
As we've stated the benefits outweigh the costs this year and we continue to expect to hit the full run rate of annual savings that being between $225 million and $275 million beginning in 2014.
So with that let me turn to the retail business which is certainly taking advantage of an unprecedented industry-driven opportunity and gaining significant market share as a result.
In the first quarter our same-store sales increased 8.4% above the high end of our guidance range.
Pharmacy comps increased 9.8% in the quarter with front store comps increasing 5.3%.
Script comps increased 9.2% on a 30-day supply basis and 7.2% if counting 90-day supply as one script.
Now this reflects strong underlying performance as well as a significant benefit from the Walgreens-Express impasse.
And we estimate that the impasse added 350 to 400 basis points to our pharmacy comps in the quarter which equates to about 5.7 million to 6.5 million prescriptions.
Our script unit comps continue to outpace all of our primary competitors even more so than in prior quarters.
And as a result we gained significant market share.
And IMS data has our retail scripts growing approximately 15 percentage points more than all other chains.
Now in addition to the benefit of script transfers from the Walgreens-Express dispute pharmacy comps reflect an approximately 75-basis-point positive impact from the one extra day in the quarter due to leap year and a 50-basis-point positive calendar shift impact from one additional weekday.
Conversely pharmacy comps were negatively impacted by 305 basis points from new generics in the quarter and pharmacy comps were also negatively impacted by a weak flu season but that was partially offset by the early onset of the allergy season given the unusually mild weather.
In the front store we were up against an easier comparison due to the severe weather in the first quarter of last year.
But having said that I'm very pleased with our 5.3% front store comp which was positively impacted by about 120 basis points from the extra day as well as a successful Valentine's Day with sales up about 9% versus a year ago.
And like pharmacy front store sales were negatively impacted by the weak flu season which was partially offset by an early allergy season.
Front store sales also benefited from our new Express Scripts customers although this was not material to our first quarter results.
And as we've said previously our initial focus was on making the prescription transfer process as seamless as possible.
And we began to shift gears during the quarter to focus on converting these new customers to front store customers.
Now we've gotten a lot of questions on how to model the front store benefit related to these new pharmacy customers and let me start by saying that while helpful the front store benefit is not expected to be the major needle mover in the near term.
To put it into perspective assuming the run rate we've achieved in incremental scripts and then further assuming that we achieve a 20% front store conversion rate for those new customers we would generate less than $0.01 in EPS per quarter.
And the real win in the front store is in the opportunity to convert those pharmacy customers to loyal CVS shoppers for all of their front store needs.
And of course we're working to ensure that we get more than our fair share of that business over time.
So overall I'm very pleased with our front store sales this quarter.
We saw increased customer traffic and a slightly higher average ticket.
Our ExtraCare loyalty program continues to be a key differentiator for us and we've had the program in place for well over a decade.
And now with 69 million active cardholders we continue to find new ways to enhance the offering.
And as an example our ExtraCare Beauty Club it already boasts more than 12 million members and is helping to drive sales across the beauty business.
In addition we're working on several digital initiatives to make things easier for our customers.
We relaunched the CVS mobile app with full-blown ExtraCare functionality to enable customers to scan their phone to manage their ExtraCare account to view offers and send them to their card.
And the customer feedback has been terrific.
During the quarter we also continued to make progress on our clustering initiatives with plans to add another 50 urban stores this year.
And we're also developing and testing additional clustering concepts and plan to have market tests in place later this year.
And we believe these efforts around localization are a key component to optimizing the return on capital of our store program.
And as for our real estate program we opened 72 new or relocated stores.
We closed 7 resulting in 25 net new stores in the quarter and we're right on track to increase our retail square footage growth by approximately 2% to 3% for the year.
Now before turning it over to Dave let me give you a brief update on MinuteClinic.
And despite the very mild flu season that we talked about MinuteClinic revenues increased nearly 22% in the quarter versus last year with approximately 86% of visits paid through some type of third-party insurance.
Now MinuteClinic continues to enhance its role as a collaborator with integrated health networks while at the same time adding new services and raising awareness.
During the quarter MinuteClinic and HCA's TriStar Health which is the largest health system in Middle Tennessee entered into a clinical affiliation to enhance access to high-quality affordable healthcare services in the Nashville area.
Also as part of our strategy to maintain break-even status on an all-in basis while growing our clinic base we closed some of our seasonal clinics during the quarter and we plan to convert others to full-time status.
So as of the end of the quarter we operated 570 clinics including the opening of 9 new clinics.
And I think it's important to note that while MinuteClinic is a small business relative to the overall enterprise it does receive a fair amount of airtime with PBM clients.
It's an important piece of our integrated strategy and our clients are very interested in how MinuteClinic can help them reduce costs while keeping their members healthy.
And we believe our plans to double our clinic count over the next several years should position us well to play an important role in solving the primary care physician shortage especially with millions of newly insured individuals expected to enter the healthcare marketplace.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
Today I'll provide a detailed review of our first quarter financial results.
I'll also provide guidance for the second quarter and update our guidance for the full year of 2012.
But first let me start with a summary of what we've been doing from a capital allocation standpoint.
As you know we raised our quarterly dividend this year by 30% our ninth consecutive year with an increase.
So in the quarter we paid approximately $211 million in dividends.
And given our earnings expectations for this year we anticipate a payout ratio of approximately 21% keeping us comfortably on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of between 25% and 30% by 2015.
In regard to share repurchase we had $3 billion left under our current authorization when we entered 2012.
During the first quarter we repurchased a total of 18.1 million shares at an average cost of $44.69 per share.
So between dividends and share repurchases we have returned more than $1 billion to our shareholders just in the first quarter.
It is my expectation that at a minimum we will complete the remaining $2.2 billion on the current repurchase authorization this year.
And between dividends and share purchase we'll allocate roughly $3.8 billion to enhancing shareholder value.
And additionally we continue to be focused on maintaining our credit ratings and have set an adjusted debt-to-EBITDA target of 2.7x.
And as I said before we are committed to our capital allocation program remaining a vital component to driving shareholder value.
Through it we'll take advantage of the powerful cash flow generation capabilities of CVS Caremark both in the near term as well as the longer term.
We generated more than $2.4 billion of free cash in the quarter an increase of more than $840 million from the prior year due mainly to an increase in our accrued expenses.
We received advance payments from CMS for the April time period which drove the increase in accrued expenses.
With April 1 falling on the weekend CMS sent the payments to us before the first quarter ended.
And the same thing will happen in the second quarter and then it will reverse in the third.
Without the advance payments free cash flow was in line with the prior year period.
During the quarter our underlying free cash flow was driven by strong earnings as well as solid year-over-year improvements in accounts receivables and accounts payable.
Partially offsetting these positive drivers was inventory which increased on the retail side from year end as we stocked up to handle the influx of new customers.
Of course it was important to remain in stock during the time that customers were switching pharmacy homes and we'll continue to monitor inventory levels going forward.
And despite the quarterly dollar increase in inventory inventory days within the retail segment improved by more than one day from the end of last year.
And combined with gains in DPO and DSO we reduced our retail cash cycle by more than 2 days so far this year.
As we continue to make process improvements the retail team remains committed to its inventory reduction target of $500 million for the full year and working capital improvements such as these are expected to continue to enhance our cash generation capabilities.
Given the lack of any sale leaseback activities net and gross capital spending for the first quarter was $376 million an increase of nearly $80 million from the prior year period.
Turning to the income statement.
Adjusted earnings per share was $0.65 for the quarter with GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations and at $0.59 per share both $0.02 above the high end of our guidance.
As Larry said while our operating results came in at the high end of our expectations the EPS beat was driven by financial-related items including the change in inventory accounting methods interest and lower shares outstanding.
I'll address all of these in a moment but first let me walk down the P&amp;L.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the first quarter increased by nearly 20% to $30.8 billion.
Drilling down by segment.
Net revenues increased by 32% in the PBM to $18.3 billion.
The majority of the growth from last year was driven by the addition of the Universal American business to our book as well as new client starts.
However we did see higher revenues than expected due to higher drug cost inflation which was partially offset by increases in the generic dispensing rate.
PBM pharmacy network revenues in the quarter increased 34% from 2011 levels to $12.6 billion while pharmacy network claims grew by 26%.
Total mail choice revenues increased by 29% to $5.7 billion while mail choice claims expanded by 17%.
Our overall mail choice penetration rate was 22.8% down approximately 120 basis points versus LY.
This decrease was driven by the addition of the Universal American Med D business which has a lower mail penetration rate than our average book of business.
In our retail business we saw revenues increase 10% in the quarter to $16 billion.
This increase was primarily driven by our same-store sales increase of 8.4% as well as net revenues from new stores relocations and MinuteClinic which accounted for approximately 150 basis points of the increase.
And Larry talked about our pharmacy and front store comps in some detail so I won't go into those here.
Turning to gross margin.
The consolidated company reported 16.6% in the quarter a contraction of approximately 185 basis points compared to Q1 of '11.
Within the PBM segment gross margin was down approximately 120 basis points versus last year's first quarter.
The decrease was primarily driven by price compression increased expenses associated with a significant number of new client starts on 1/1 and our expanding Medicare Part D operations.
As you know profitability in the Med D business is back-half weighted with the Med D business experiencing losses in the first part of every year.
So as our Med D business grows this trend will become more pronounced.
Partially offsetting these was the positive margin impact from the approximately 275-basis-point increase and the PBM generic dispensing rate which grew from 73.8% to 76.5%.
This was due in large part to a 520-basis-point increase in mail choice GDR.
New generic drug introductions had a positive impact as did our continuous effort to encourage plan members to use generics whenever available and appropriate.
Gross margin in the retail segment was 28.5% up approximately 10 basis points year-over-year mainly due to the change in inventory accounting I mentioned a few moments ago.
Excluding this change gross margin at retail was down approximately 5 basis points.
In regards to the accounting change the details are provided in the 10-Q we filed this morning but let me summarize it for you now.
Prior to this year we valued pharmacy inventory in our stores using the retail inventory method.
Beginning in January all pharmacy inventory in the retail segment is now valued using the weighted average cost method consistent with how the PBM values it.
This only affects the pharmacy portion of our retail inventory.
Front store inventory will continue to be valued using the retail method of accounting.
In the pharmacy we believe that the weighted average cost method provides a better matching of cost of goods sold with revenue.
It also allows us to have a consistent inventory valuation method for all our pharmacy inventory across the enterprise.
So what's the overall impact from this change? Over an extended period of time both methods produce similar results.
However because both methods use averaging certain timing differences between the 2 can occur periodically.
But due to how it addresses actual quantities on hand the weighted average cost method results in a greater level of precision leading to a better matching of cost of goods sold with revenue.
Had we had not made this accounting change we estimate our gross profit for the first quarter would have been approximately $30 million lower and our EPS would have been approximately $0.01 lower.
The impact from this change was not considered in our prior guidance because the accounting change was not finalized at the time of our fourth quarter call.
Going forward the impact from this chain will be -- change will be included in our guidance.
Additionally we plan to disclose the difference if any between each method in our 10-Q filings throughout 2012.
And we don't expect the change to have a material impact on EPS for this year but there are expected to be some quarters with a positive impact and others with a negative impact.
And as I've mentioned additional details of this accounting change are included in Note 2 to our financial statements which are included in our 10-Q filings that we filed this morning.
Now putting this change aside as we expected we saw margin pressure from pharmacy reimbursement rates and the growth of Maintenance Choice.
These unfavorable factors were partially offset by an increased generic dispensing rate with retail GDR increasing by 290 basis points to 78.1%.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by approximately 135 basis points versus the first quarter of '11.
The PBM segment's SG&amp;A rate improved by approximately 25 basis points to 1.5%.
This was primarily due to expense leverage gained by the strong revenue growth which was partially offset by the addition of the operations associated with our acquisition the Universal American Medicare Part D business.
In the retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved by approximately 45 basis points to 20.4%.
This improvement in expense leverage was again driven by solid sales growth and continued discipline around expense controls.
Within the Corporate segment expenses were up approximately $21 million to $168 million or less than 1% of consolidated revenues improving by approximately 5 basis points versus the same period in 2011.
And with the change in gross margin more than offsetting the improvements in SG&amp;A as a percent of sales operating margin for the total enterprise declined by approximately 50 basis points to 4.6% in line with our expectations.
Operating margin in the PBM was 1.9% down about 90 basis points while operating margin at retail was 8.1% up about 60 basis points.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 18% at the high end of our guidance range and PBM operating profit declined 11% also near the top of our guidance range.
And going below the line on the consolidated income statement.
We saw net interest expense in the quarter decline by approximately $2 million to $132 million versus last year.
Interest was favorable to our expectations due in large part to our strong cash flow position.
Additionally our expected income tax rate was 39% as expected and our weighted average share count was 1.31 billion shares approximately 5 million shares lower than anticipated.
Now let me update you on our guidance for the full year '12 and provide guidance for the second quarter.
Please note that this guidance reflects the potential estimated benefit that the Walgreens-Express Scripts impasse continues only through the end of the second quarter.
It does not include any potential benefit beyond the second quarter.
I'll review the highlights of our guidance but you can find all the details in the slide presentation we posted on our website.
We currently expect to deliver adjusted EPS in 2012 of between $3.23 and $3.33 per share reflecting very healthy year-over-year growth of 15.5% to 19%.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be between $3.01 and $3.11.
This guidance includes the $0.03 to $0.04 benefit expect to see during the second quarter from the Walgreens-Express Scripts impasse and does not include any benefit for the third or fourth quarters.
Taking into account the expected impact from the new ESI-Walgreens scripts in the first half we currently anticipate a consolidated net revenue growth of between 13.5% and 15%.
Both segments of our business should see strong revenue growth especially the PBM which is benefiting from the addition of new clients following a great 2012 selling season.
Also recall that our estimates include one extra day in '12 versus '11 for leap year.
Within the retail segment we now expect revenues to increase year-over-year by 5% to 6% an increase of 200 basis points over our prior guidance.
Obviously this increase is being primarily driven by the Walgreens-Express Scripts impasse that continued into the second quarter.
We expect same-store sales for the year to be in the range of 3.5% to 4.5% and same-store scripts to be in the range of 5% to 6%.
We continue to expect gross margin in this segment to be moderately up over 2011 while operating expenses as a percent of revenues are expected to be modest -- to modestly increase.
As a result operating profit margin in the retail segment now is expected to grow between 10.5% and 12.5% another increase of 200 basis points from our prior guidance.
Retail operating profit margin is expected to increase by 40 to 50 basis points.
Within the PBM segment we are increasing our revenue growth expectations by 100 basis points to between 23.5% and 25.5%.
Given the amount of drug price inflation we've experienced in the first quarter we expect inflation to exceed our initial expectations throughout the year although not at the levels we've seen to date.
Gross margin in the PBM are still expected to be down notably while we anticipate moderate improvement in operating expense as a percent of revenue.
We expect a decline in the PBM's operating margin of between 30 and 40 basis points and an increase in PBM operating profit of between 11% and 15% for the full year.
The only other items of note at the consolidated level are interest and amortization.
We are reducing our interest expense guidance by $10 million and now expect between $550 million and $560 million of net interest for the full year.
At the same time we have increased our amortization outlook by approximately $15 million to $475 million reflecting the Health Net PDP acquisition in the PBM segment.
Our free cash flow guidance remains unchanged for the year at a range of $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion.
And for the second quarter we expect adjusted EPS of between $0.78 and $0.80 per share reflecting growth of 20% to 24% over the same period of last year.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operation is expected to be in the range of $0.72 to $0.74 in the second quarter.
As I mentioned earlier this includes a $0.03 to $0.04 benefit from the Walgreens-Express Scripts impasse.
Consolidated revenues are expected to increase 16% to 17.5%.
In the retail segment revenues are expected to increase 6.5% to 7.5% versus the second quarter of '11.
While the majority of our top line increase reflects the continued share gains in retail it also reflects an increase in drug inflation which is helping to offset some of the deflation from new generic introductions.
As with the PBM we've assumed that we'll see more inflation going forward but not at the first quarter levels.
Same-store sales growth is expected to be in the range of 5% to 6%.
And as you model second quarter comps versus what we've achieved in the first quarter you should keep a few things in mind with respect to the front store.
We will have a slight negative Easter shift given the holiday season is 14 days shorter in the second quarter this year versus last year.
We also expect to see a tougher allergy comparison in the second quarter given the early onset of the season and the shift of sales into the first quarter.
And of course the benefit of leap day will not repeat itself.
That said we still expect front store comps to be healthy in the second quarter just not at the level of the first quarter.
Same-store script growth is expected to be in the range of 6.5% to 7.5%.
Operating profit in the retail segment is expected to grow between 16.5% and 18.5% during the second quarter.
Revenues at the PBM are expected to grow by 27% to 29% largely reflecting the new client additions and the ramp-up in the UAM business.
PBM operating profit is expected to be up 7% to 11% in the quarter.
So in conclusion we've turned in another solid quarter and our outlook for the year remains very good.
We've also continued to generate very significant free cash flow and that will play an important role in driving shareholder value now as well as in the future.
And with that I'll turn it back to Larry.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
And as you've heard already we had a terrific start to the year and I'm very pleased with our results across the enterprise.
And I want to thank our 200 000 colleagues who are working very hard every day to help people on their path to better health.
And on behalf of our senior leadership team I can tell you that we feel very good about our position in the marketplace.
And with our stable business and unique suite of assets we're very well positioned in the industry for continued success.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig Citigroup.
This is Tiffany Konegen [ph] filling in for Deb Weinswig.
Can you please provide some detail around the breakdown of the $7 billion of new wins this season? Well the biggest single one is the FEP contract which was the mail order and the specialty business that we didn't have.
We also renewed the retail part of that.
So the incremental revenue that we got from the FEP contract was roughly $2.5 billion out of the $7 billion and then the rest of it is made up by a number of other prominent employer and other types of customers.
And also one additional question.
Can you provide some more color around your decision to close the 25 Beauty 360 locations? And what is your strategy for beauty and cosmetics going forward? Yes let me take the first part of that and then I'll ask Mark to jump in.
But as you know we began this concept about 4 years ago.
It was disruptive in the marketplace in terms of offering what had been only distributed through department stores and specialty beauty stores certainly products not available in the drug channel.
And we got tremendous learnings over that 3- 4-year period.
We found that we did not or were not able to secure all of the call it Tier 1 brands that would create a holistic offering for that prestige beauty customer.
But again it was a very successful innovative test where we got learnings that we can apply to our beauty business going forward.
So just a little color on top of what Larry said.
We clearly believe in the beauty business.
It's a huge priority for us as we go forward.
It was a 25-store test where we learned a ton.
We are in the process right now of a whole beauty reinvention and much of the learning that we took from those tests will be integrated into that beauty reinvention.
Other things that we have in the works I think that have been effective on the beauty front have been this Beauty Club that we launched this past year which now has 12 million members and we continue to look for ways to take that to the next level; and then the successful launch that we had this past year of the Salma Hayek Nuance product exclusive to us.
It came with industry accolades and customer accolades and it is also meeting our sales expectations.
So we have a lot happening in the beauty world these days.
We are committed to it and stay tuned for more on that front.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill of JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions on the PBM side.
First off when you talk about the one quarter that's already been renewed can you talk either Per or Larry about what your retention rate has been so far? And then secondly can you also talk about what customers are looking for this year in the selling season? Are you hearing more around narrow networks? And obviously you're well positioned to provide a narrow network.
And what are you seeing competitively with all the disruption and most notably recently SXC and Catalyst coming together as well? Yes Lisa let me take the first part and then I'll ask Per to talk more about what he's seeing in the selling season.
As we said in our prepared remarks it's very early in the selling season.
We're not going to provide any numbers around retention rates and we just think it's way too early to talk about that with where we're at.
And we'll certainly talk about that in a more holistic fashion as we approach the fall time frame.
And Lisa I think the network question is clearly on the table and I think that it's I think in part put on the table by the Express-Walgreens situation.
And I think what many customers have realized is that you can actually serve the market very successfully with less than all of the stores around the country.
And quite candidly Express has done a nice job really managing transitions of their retail customers over to other participants in the network.
So it is a viable option for customers where they I think will be looking at due to the benefits the savings that they can get from narrowing down the network somewhat.
And they will kind of look at those benefits compared to other types of savings opportunities that are available to them through plan designs and that sort of thing.
So I truly expect there to be a healthy discussion around network options as we get into this year's selling season.
Research Division</strong> Can you help us Per to understand what level of savings a customer is looking for? I think that Walgreens has probably said that customers won't move for less than 5%.
Our experience has been that that's not the case but perhaps you can give us some insights into the level of savings people are looking for for a more narrow network.
Well I mean I think to get to 5% savings you have to make very drastic cuts in the network.
But this business is very price-sensitive as you know and customers will value a lot top line reductions of 1% 2% 3%.
If you're a $1-billion health -- if you're a health plan that spends $1 billion on prescription drugs 1% saving is $10 million and 2% savings is twice that.
So it is very meaningful and I think it's clearly sort of worth consideration by customers.
And Lisa I think the wisdom that has been out there was a 2% to 3% number.
And I think to Per's point that the paradigm that existed in terms of customer disruption we're kind of living a learning laboratory and Express has done a very effective job in terms of managing client and member disruption that I think it's possible as a result of that that you could see clients evaluate what would it mean for a 1% savings because the disruption is just not what people thought it might be.
Our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel of Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
So first on the PBM when you think about all of the noise in the marketplace today do you guys think the benefit in this selling season is more net new wins the potential for that or strong -- stronger margins on renewals of contracts that are up for renewal this year? Do you think -- does one in your mind weigh more heavily than the other as an opportunity this year? Well I mean I do think that the opportunity to capture new business is probably the more important factor there.
What is sort of interesting I think in this year's selling season is that in addition to looking at customers that are contemplating a change for January 2013 we actually have quite a substantial number of customers that are looking at 2014 change.
And it's unusual at least in my experience to have that many customers kind of go out to market almost like a year ahead of plan if you will.
So that is a new phenomenon I think this particular season.
With respect to the pricing I really don't see any significant change compared to the past.
I mean this is a very competitive business.
It will continue to be very competitive business.
And when plans go out to bid they look very much at how to improve the economics of their drug benefits.
So I kind of fully expect that the economics will be in the forefront of all of these opportunities.
LLC Research Division</strong> But is it wrong to think that with all of the -- again all of the noise all of the change that's out there that people might be a little more risk-averse right now? And if they're generally happy with your offering a there's a greater likelihood they stay with you and b it's going to take a lot more to -- price discount to bid them away.
Or is that not right? Well I mean I think if you have a successful service relationship with the customer which is very much the case for us I mean typically as the incumbent you have sort of the upper hand if you will.
And that sort of is what you see reflected in the high retention rates.
But that doesn't really translate into a significant sort of margin opportunity.
It tends to be very very competitive and clients are really focused on trying to improve the economics of their drug programs.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
And then just finally Larry 2 quick things on Retail.
When you think about this whole Walgreen-Express ending at some point how do you think that all plays out in terms of them trying to get business back? They'll probably do transfer coupons maybe bigger than $25.
How does that play out? How do you respond to that? And there should be an annuity benefit that you'll keep some percentage of these customers into '13 correct? Yes John I mean as we've discussed many times we know that that pharmacy customer is the hardest person to lose and the hardest person to get back once you've lost them.
The longer this impasse goes on the stickier that customer is going to be.
And they're going to have multiple opportunities to visit a CVS/pharmacy and establish a relationship with their CVS pharmacist.
So yes there will be a retention impact of this if and when the situation gets resolved.
Our next question comes from the line of Dane Leone Macquarie.
Maybe starting with retail.
Can you just kind of go into the plan as we head into the back half of the year to convert some of those new pharmacy customers into loyalty program customers or -- yes I mean front store shoppers.
Well it's a big part of our game plan obviously.
When we started this past year back in January we had an aggressive plan both in terms of marketing and in in-store initiatives for attracting the ESI customers and then converting them into really whole store shoppers.
The plan included marketing both on the broadcast front as well as on the promotional front and then we had a significant amount of activity around ExtraCare.
We also did a tremendous number of things on the in-store front including staffing.
We added inventory where it was appropriate and then we had a major campaign which we had -- saw some success that we think we will continue in the second half of the year around ambassadors which we put in place in our top stores to really teach these new customers the services that we have available in our store from e-mail capability to texting to ExtraCare and the power of ExtraCare signing them up to ExtraCare and of course our ReadyFill initiative.
The big focus now is on service because we believe if we provide the best possible service experience that will then lead to the more likelihood that the folks will retain but then also use the full store.
So we have a number of initiatives in place to convert the customer not only to a loyal pharmacy user but also to a loyal front store user.
Great.
And 2 questions on the PBM side.
Just following up on a previous question I'm just curious about why customers would be sending out RFPs for the 2014 selling season this early given all the disruption going on.
And then another question.
There's been some talk with consultants percolating over the last month or so just regarding potential IT issues on the Caremark destination platform.
I was just hoping maybe you could just give some color on why we might be hearing about that.
And is it just a normal noise? Or is there something more to focus on there? Yes I think let me start with the last one.
I mean there are really no IT issues associated with the destination platform.
It's a very very strong platform that will basically be able to handle a tremendous range of plan design requirements capturing all the segments of our book of business.
And we just -- earlier this year we migrated all of our Med D business over to that platform which is arguably the most complicated part of our business.
So it's a very very sophisticated state-of-the-art platform that will be able to robustly handle all of our requirements for many years to come.
So that's not at all sort of an issue.
With respect to the 2014 thing I don't have any really definitive insight there other than what I've just said.
I do think when you have this kind of market disruption that's going on right now and the M&amp;A activities that you're familiar with those types of changes can be kind of an impetus for many plans simply to just sort of ask themselves maybe this is a good time for us to look at what's out in the marketplace and figure out what the options -- what options are available for them to provide this cost-effective drug benefit going forward.
So I don't have anything other -- any other insights than that to offer.
Our next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Larry you were talking about the likelihood of retaining customers.
I was just -- because of the former Walgreen customers.
I was just wondering why you're being so conservative about not assuming any of it in the second half.
Is that just because you don't know what Walgreens is going to do to try to win those customers back if this dispute is resolved? Yes Meredith we have been -- I think going back to December we had said that this was a very fluid situation and we certainly can't predict the outcome or let alone the timing of that and that we would take this one quarter at a time recognizing as Mark just pointed out there's an awful lot of things that we're doing to ensure that those new customers have an outstanding experience and that we convert them to not just a pharmacy customer but a front store customer.
So we certainly expect that we'll talk about that at the appropriate time and we'll provide another update on the next quarterly call in terms of where we're at should the situation be unresolved or resolved for that matter.
Research Division</strong> So for CVS enthusiasts then we should assume that you'd keep some of it? Yes Meredith as we -- someone asked the question earlier that this has gone on long enough that we would certainly expect some retention to take place because these customers have had an opportunity to date to visit a CVS pharmacy perhaps 3 4 times now and to begin to establish a relationship with their pharmacist.
And I think Meredith -- this is Dave.
I think a couple of things is that one we want to put in our guidance things that we can control and obviously this situation is somewhat outside of our control number one.
But number two while we've talked about it a lot we're still pretty early in the process.
We've kind of got 1.5 quarters under our belt here.
And as time goes on we'll know much more and we'll have a lot more clarity at that point.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then I have a question about your Medicare your PDP business.
This is the first quarter -- or first quarter that you've had the Universal American business.
And obviously that's always the weakest quarter for the PDP business.
I was just wondering if there have been any surprises in terms of what customers are -- how many prescriptions they're filling and whether you feel comfortable with the premiums that you're getting paid in that business this year? Yes no surprises.
It's very much on track with our expectations.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci of Lazard Asset Management.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question or 2.
In terms of the RFPs that you're getting on the PBM side going into the heart of the selling season here can you talk about anything that you're seeing that's new or different in terms of what customers are asking for in those RFPs? I mean you touched a little bit on maybe there's going to be more talk around narrow networks.
Something else that we've heard is maybe customers looking to be -- to gain a little more control over the specific retailers that are in their networks as opposed to just sort of relative access points.
Can you talk about that and anything other that you're seeing that's new or different? Yes I don't see anything to the kind of controlled aspect of your question.
I mean I think typically when they specify the parameters around networks it has to do with access geographic access in relation to where their people are.
And that's been a fairly broad-based sort of definition of what the network requirements should be based on.
And so that's probably -- I mean I don't see any real change there.
With respect to other things that people are looking for one of the things that's sort of on the table right now for many employers is what their plans are with respect to retiree coverage and whether they're going to exit the Retiree Drug Subsidy Program into either a defined contribution or EGWP-type plans.
So there's a fair amount of interest in those types of options especially from large employer customers.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Could you remind us if an employer does make a change there let's say toward an EGWP what's the net effect for you all? Pretty much -- I mean it's not a major shift.
We obviously -- there's a slight deterioration typically in the mail order aspect of it because in the EGWP plans you can't have as aggressive mail order incentives as many employers have for their retirees today.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And then what about managed Medicaid? I know you guys are pretty big players there through some of your customers.
Do you view that as a longer-term opportunity? Or what's the relative quality of that business and how you look at it? Well we certainly see that being a big growth area for us and many states that have major fiscal problems are clearly kind of looking at switching out of fee-for-service Medicaid programs into managed Medicaid programs to improve the generic dispensing rates to reduce the dispensing fees and so on so that seems to be a pretty robust trend right now that certainly had a significant impact this year.
But other states will continue to kind of look for those types of savings going forward and that's a very interesting market opportunity for us.
And Tom it's also an opportunity on the retail side because it gives us an opportunity -- it's going to vary by state and by PBM but it gives us an opportunity to work with the PBMs around incentive programs rather than just being focused on just share reimbursement formulas.
And even going back to the network issue many of these managed Medicaid programs are being set up around retail networks that have less stand-alone pharmacies in it.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Kelly of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Larry you've said previously that you did not expect to see a large -- that there'd be a large opportunity out there for new business wins because of the Express-Walgreens dispute.
And I guess I don't want to put words in your mouth but I guess it's because you didn't expect that Express would have that much difficulty in retaining business without Walgreens.
Do you still feel that way now that we're sort of in the heat of the selling season and you're getting some feedback from clients? Yes Ed I think we still feel that way.
I think as you've heard us comment on several times Express has done a very effective job in terms of managing the client member disruption so that it's not an issue.
And I think to Per's earlier point that clients are always looking for ways in which they can capture savings.
And I think that we don't know how it'll play out but I think that there will be and is going to be more chatter around what does a more restricted network mean in terms of potential cost savings for a respective client? Research Division</strong> As we think about more restrictive networks and if we were to take a 5-plus-year view on sort of where the marketplace going it seems like there's going be more prevalence of restricted networks which I guess means that the decision to fill a script starts to move from the employee which it's been historically to maybe a bit more to the employer.
So my question for you is does that have any impact on the way you think about real estate opportunities right? For instance is it as critical going forward to have the high-cost main-on-main location as it's been in the past? Well Ed I think as we look to the future I think there's a lot of variables that continue to come in play.
Keep in mind that part of that real estate strategy is the convenience of the front store offerings and the hours of operation that that affords which quite frankly those elements are very important to clients and their members and I think will be part of the considerations that go into a decision to potentially restrict the networks.
So I don't see as we sit here today any changes in how we think about our real estate strategy with that in mind.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just real quick last question for you.
You brought in a lot of new business this year as well as last year.
Can you just comment on how the execution of the new business has been? And does that create any limitation for you on how much business you'd be looking to try to pick up in the upcoming year? Well I mean we did take on a huge amount of business as you know in January.
And at this point we're very sort of satisfied with the service levels and the operations around all of these new customers.
To be quite candid there were some moments in very early January when I think our systems were pretty much stressed and we had some spikes in the customer call centers that were -- caused a little bit of consternation.
We pretty quickly got behind that so it's not an issue any longer.
But it was quite an effort in early January to manage all this inflow of business.
And going forward I think we obviously take all of these experiences and try to learn from them try to find areas where we need to strengthen our processes and strengthen our systems so we can continue to grow this business very successfully.
And I don't really see any limitations there whatsoever.
Our next question comes from the line of Larry Marsh Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> And for what it's worth Per to your earlier point we participated in an industry call last week where several consultants said they are specifically recommending more of their customers go out to bid this year to see if they can capture more savings in their drug spending because of the change in the industry as you said.
But my question is really I wanted to get you to discuss a little bit briefly your success in winning and retaining health plans through your PBM.
You've lost what I thought were several visible health plans for '13 but also recently won Blue Cross Blue Shield of Hawaii from Medco.
So I guess my question is do you feel like you can continue to gain share in this segment specifically addressing the concerns some might have that you're competing with them for Part D lives? I mean I do Larry.
We will never doubt that 100% and the accounts that we lost early this year were -- they were hotly contested and we put in a huge effort on those and I thought gave proposals that were very aggressive and what we felt we could justify.
So having said that we're not going to win all the time.
I do think that our model especially with the integration with CVS retail and the MinuteClinic is of increasing significance to the health plan segment.
And that I think has become really a focal point for many of the health plan discussions right now and in particular health plans that have a significant Medicare population.
As you probably know Larry the government has basically created the Star rating program as a way to measure health plan performance and also to pay health plans for their performance and a significant portion of those Star ratings today are dependent on being able to improve adherence and close gaps in care for chronic medication users.
And we have a particularly strong suite of capabilities to help health plans in that area.
So I'm very very optimistic about the growth opportunities in the health plan segment going forward.
Research Division</strong> Right thanks.
And I guess given that it's public to the extent Cigna does decide to move forward with its outsourcing of its combined pharmacy benefit assets why might they consider you given you already service their large competitor Aetna? Well I think Larry that obviously the point that Per just made about our integrated model I think creates an awful lot of interest among clients of all types especially health plans as you think about more and more of this business becoming B2C and the opportunities that we have to serve varying needs.
Research Division</strong> Right okay great.
And a quick -- real quick follow-up.
To the extent Express does choose to move forward to terminate Medco's retail network agreement with Walgreens for 2013 are there any notable incremental costs you need to incur to help drive that seamless transition like you did with Express? Or do you feel like you've already learned and you've expensed most of that already with the Express Scripts switch? Yes it would be very minimal Larry.
I mean it would be investing in some of the store labor okay as Mark talked about to ensure that that transition experience becomes a seamless one because there is some administrative duties that have to be performed as part of that transfer process.
But again we could easily handle that from a capacity perspective with no issue whatsoever.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin of Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of housekeeping items Dave.
The inventory change you said it added $30 million to gross profit.
I didn't hear a breakdown on segments.
Do you have one? Yes.
It's all Retail Pharmacy because the change only affects our Retail Pharmacy inventory accounting method.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So then I also noticed in the guidance it seemed you beat by $0.02 you raised by $0.05 if I'm missing something and you said it was mostly below the line.
So it seems like we got an extra $0.02 or...
Well I think if you look at it we beat by $0.02 for the quarter and then we raised essentially by $0.03 due to the Walgreens-Express impasse $0.03 to $0.04.
For the second quarter.
For the second quarter.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> For the second quarter okay.
That's great.
And then ExtraCare.
I didn't hear -- maybe again it's been long maybe I missed it.
ExtraCare cardholder numbers during the quarter how much was that up? We didn't provide Scott the quarter number but we currently have 69 million active cardholders.
So it's up a couple of million from our last update.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Up a couple of million.
And then one final one as I just kind of run through these checks.
Is the number of pharmacy shoppers that also use the front end say over a 6-month period high? Or is it low? Well Scott the number that we've talked about in the past is when you look at that pharmacy customer and ask what percent are purchasing something in the front at the time they're picking up their prescription that number is right around 30%.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> But over a 6-month period I would assume it must be much much higher right because sometimes you're just running in there to pick up your scripts you're going through the drive-through or whatever.
But I guess that's what I'm trying to understand and how -- I think you threw out a 20% conversion on some of these Express people and I would think over time it could be a lot higher unless I'm missing something.
Yes Scott that's true although we have not quantified that.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Willoughby Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Larry given your competitors' continuing commitment to your retail excess are there more aggressive strategic moves you could make to enhance the opportunity? You mentioned the store clustering opportunity.
Is that an acceleration of store openings? Or is that more or less in line just a bit more focused? And can you give us kind of a target market maybe where something like that would happen? Yes Bob I mean we are following through on our plans.
I would say the one thing that we're doing in response to your question is that we have entered new markets over the last couple of years and we have a rich and robust pipeline of stores.
So I'll take a market like St.
Louis where we have probably 10 or 11 stores today and another 15 or 18 in the pipeline.
And we're looking at those new markets to see if we can accelerate what has already been approved as real estate.
Research Division</strong> Okay but the overall number of stores more or less in line with what you've guided to over the past.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe more bluntly Larry what's the economic reason not to ultimately exclude Walgreens from your pharmacy networks -- from your PBM pharmacy networks? Why go restrictive when you can knock them out completely? Bob I mean first off I mean we have a long-term contract with Walgreens so that's sort of the basis from which we operate.
And as we do with all of our network partners we will continue to look for sort of the best mix of participating chains and independents and the economics that that will lead to.
So I'm not going to make any predictions one way or another but certainly having Walgreens in the network on competitive terms is a good thing for our customers.
Research Division</strong> Would you foresee excluding them? Any meaningful damage to your PBM profitability or growth opportunity? We have no plans in that regard.
And we wouldn't speculate on that Bob as well.
Our last question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Question on the inventory change.
I just wanted to clarify is this only an accounting change? Or is this also a signal that you're just kind of like looking potentially at a more structural change to how you think about managing inventory across the organization? And really what I'm getting at is are you also looking at potentially consolidating the purchasing for the PBM and retail segment as part of managing the inventory? Ricky this is Dave.
This is purely an accounting change although we think it will be helpful to us from an operational perspective over time.
Keep in mind that today the purchasing across our enterprise both from a PBM perspective and a retail perspective is already consolidated.
So we leverage the purchasing power of our organization across both of our segments.
Research Division</strong> Just by the fact that you're using 2 different wholesalers? Correct.
But we -- that is correct but we still purchase them centrally through our operations.
And Ricky we use the wholesalers geographic to a large degree actually across our retail enterprise.
Okay everyone.
So thanks for your interest and your time today.
And if there's any follow-up questions I know you know how to get ahold of Nancy.
So thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day everyone.
Welcome to the CVS Caremark Second Quarter Earnings Call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tara.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Im here with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will provide a financial review.
Per Lofberg President of our PBM business; and Mark Cosby President of CVS/pharmacy are also with us today and will participate in the Q&amp;A session following our prepared remarks.
During the question-and-answer session please limit yourself to one or two questions so we can provide more analysts and investors the chance to ask the questions.
During this call we will discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our companys performance namely free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
I also recommend that you download the slide presentation we posted on our website this morning.
The slides summarize the information on this call as well as key facts and figures around our operating performance and guidance.
In addition note that we plan to file our Form 10-Q today before the close of business and it will be available through our website at that time.
As always todays call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the safe harbor statement.
During this presentation we will make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently-filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and that you review the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements in our most recently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now Ill turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Thanks Nancy and good morning everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to hear more about our strong second quarter results as well as our outlook for the remainder of the year.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.81.
Thats up 25% from the second quarter last year and $0.01 above the high-end of our guidance.
Our retail operating profit increased 18.5%.
Our PBM operating profit jumped 14.3%.
Both at or above our expectations.
So were very pleased with this strong operating performance.
The retail business continued to take advantage of the unprecedented opportunity presented to us by the stalemate between Walgreens and Express Scripts.
This resulted in significant market share growth in the quarter and as anticipated we realized about a $0.035 benefit in Q2 from the impasse.
Now with the recent news that Walgreens will re-enter the broadest Express Scripts network this September 15 we estimate that we will generate an additional benefit of approximately $0.05 per share in the second half of the year.
That estimate assumes that in the fourth quarter we retain at least 50% of the prescription volumes gained from the stalemate.
Additionally the $0.05 per share benefit is net of the estimated investments well make to maximize retention.
Now given our strong results year-to-date and our outlook for the rest of the year we are raising and narrowing our guidance for the full year.
We now expect to achieve adjusted earnings per share for 2012 in the range of $3.32 to $3.38.
Thats up from our previous range of $3.23 to $3.33 and up approximately $0.15 from our initial 2012 guidance of $3.15 to $3.25 which we provided last December at our Analyst Day.
So were very pleased with the upward trend in our expectations and Dave will provide the details of our results as well as guidance for the third quarter and full year during his financial review.
Now Ill turn to a brief business update and Ill begin with our PBM.
I think as all of you know the 2013 selling season is well underway.
RFP activity is up about 7% year-over-year and were pleased with our overall success in the season thus far.
As in prior years most health plans and large employers have made their decisions for January 1 and our focus is now on the mid-2013 opportunities plus a significant number of 2014 opportunities.
The pricing environment remains competitive but rational and we continue to provide consistent and differentiated offerings that continue to serve us well.
Now as previously reported in the marketplace we experienced some contract losses earlier in the selling season.
However Im happy to report that we have continued to win new business along the way with gross wins totaling $3.5 billion resulting in net new business of $640 million to date and that is on a 2013 impact basis.
Our new client wins include major Fortune 100 companies as well as regional health plans in both the commercial and Medicare or Medicaid segments.
I think its important to note that we are seeing increased interest in narrow networks and obviously with 1% 2% 3% savings possible some clients took a hard look at this option and have come to the conclusion that this makes sense for them.
In fact clients representing about 20% of the new revenues signed for 2013 have adopted a limited pharmacy network and that excludes those clients who signed on for Maintenance Choice.
The clients adopting limited networks are a mix of both employers and health plans.
So while we are not seeing a watershed change in the adoption of limited networks its clearly a factor in the selling season and it will continue to be on the table as a cost-savings opportunity for clients.
Additionally just over half of our scheduled renewals for 2013 have gone through the renewal process.
Thats pretty typical for this time of year.
And our retention rate currently stands at 96.3%.
Now we continue to see strong interest in the proprietary programs we offer  what we call our integration sweet spots.
And let me review our progress with two of our flagship products Maintenance Choice and Pharmacy Advisor.
We currently have approximately 10.7 million lives covered under 880 plans that have implemented or committed to implement Maintenance Choice and were seeing more of our new clients adopting Maintenance Choice right out of the gate.
So to put that into perspective 63% of the lives adopting Maintenance Choice in 2012 were from new clients and that compares to only 14% back in 2009.
We also have compelling data demonstrating that Maintenance Choice has been successful in broadening access while reducing costs and improving prescription adherence.
As weve discussed previously were making enhancements to the program to provide a more transformative member experience that will further differentiate CVS Caremark in the marketplace.
The next generation of Maintenance Choice which we have been referring to simply as Maintenance Choice 2.0 includes a less restrictive or voluntary plan design option that well offer in addition to our legacy Maintenance Choice program.
And this new option along with the enhancements we are making for all Maintenance Choice clients is currently in pilot and expected to be broadly available in January of 2013.
Another of our flagship programs Pharmacy Advisor is also using our integrated assets in a very differentiated way to lower healthcare costs and improve the health of those we serve.
We now have 16.2 million lives covered by more than 900 clients committed to implement Pharmacy Advisor for diabetes.
And additionally Im pleased to report that we have 10.7 million lives covered by 550 clients already enrolled in Pharmacy Advisor for cardiovascular conditions which launched this past April.
And given our success to date we expect to go live next year with five more Pharmacy Advisor programs addressing additional chronic diseases.
Now let me touch briefly on some other highlights of the second quarter PBM results.
First our specialty pharmacy business continued to achieve significant growth with revenues increasing a very healthy 44%.
That growth was driven by new PBM clients new product launches as well as drug price inflation.
Another important PBM growth driver is Medicare Part D.
We currently have more than 4 million lives in our PDP and just last night CMS released the benchmark results of the 2013 Medicare Part D competitive bidding process.
Now of those low-income members assigned to us we expect to retain our current members in 30 of the 34 regions that compares to 33 of 34 last year.
We are below benchmark status in 20 regions de minimis in 10 others.
In the three regions where we lost represent approximately 240 000 low-income subsidy lives that are subject to reassignment.
Now we will of course know more about our total number of beneficiaries for the 2013 plan year when CMS announces later this year the low income subsidy auto-assignees along with the results of the annual open enrollment period.
Now before turning to retail let me briefly touch on that Aetna contract and PBM streamlining initiative.
With regards to Aetna our focus remains on the migration of Aetnas clients onto our platform and we successfully transitioned the first waves of Aetna clients on July 1st and August 1st.
As for the streamlining initiative we are on track to deliver over $1 billion of cumulative cost savings from 2011 through 2015.
And as weve stated previously through this initiative were streamlining PBM operations to improve productivity rationalizing capacity and to consolidating our adjudication platforms to one destination platform with enhanced capabilities.
And today approximately 60% of our book to business now on the destination platform with nearly 70% expected to be transitioned by year-end.
Some other examples of the progress were making as part of our streamlining efforts include a new set of features to our caremark.com website that includes a faster and easier prescription refill process along with the ability to present cost-effective drug alternatives and other cost savings opportunities.
Additionally weve made significant process on our new state-of-the-art automated mail order pharmacy in Illinois which is on track to begin filling prescriptions in Q3 of this year.
As weve stated previously we expect to hit the full run rate of annual savings from the streamlining initiative of $225 million to $275 million beginning in 2014.
So with that let me turn to the retail business.
In the second quarter our same-store sales increased 5.6% in line with our 5% to 6% guidance.
Pharmacy comps increased 7.2% in the quarter with front store comps increasing 2.3%.
Script comps increased 9.8% on a 30-day supply basis and 7.7% when counting 90-day supplies as one script.
Now this reflects strong underlying performance as well as a significant benefit from the Walgreens/Express impasse.
We estimate that the stalemate added 410 to 430 basis points to our pharmacy same-store sales and 400 to 430 basis points to our script comps in the quarter equating to about 6.5 million to 7 million scripts.
Now on the flipside pharmacy comps were negatively impacted by approximately 500 basis points in the quarter which is related to the recent generic introductions.
Now in light of the timing of the recently announced settlement by our competitors we expect to retain the vast majority of the scripts we gained through the third quarter and to retain at least 50% in the fourth quarter.
Many of you have asked how we expect to accomplish that level of retention.
And while it obviously wouldnt make sense to discuss our specific retention strategies for competitive reasons I can assure you that we have a highly detailed multifaceted plan in place to achieve our goals.
It includes customer outreach in-store touch points advertising and promotions.
And our plan is based on sophisticated analytics and it makes economic sense.
So we are very confident that we will retain a significant portion of that business.
Its also important to note that we have continually searched for ways to improve and differentiate our pharmacy offering.
For example our Retail Pharmacy adherence program is now in its fifth year and we continue to be pleased with its strong performance.
In the first half of this year alone our pharmacy teams proactively delivered 40 million live customer interventions across all of our stores helping to improve adherence and keep our customers healthier.
And I just want to say that I am very proud of the hard work and efforts of our pharmacy teams theyre doing a great job.
As for the front store business both customer traffic and average front store ticket increased in the quarter.
We estimate that the Walgreens/Express impasse positively impacted our front store comp by more than 100 basis points in the quarter.
In contrast front store comps were negatively impacted by the seasonal compression of two fewer selling weeks in the Easter holiday period as well as the early end to the allergy season.
The latest data shows that CVS has gained front store share versus last year when compared to drugstore and multi-outlet competitors.
Our market share growth in the second quarter was 123 basis points and 18 basis points respectively.
Our ExtraCare loyalty program continues to be a key differentiator and now with more than 15 years of history today we have roughly 70 million active cardholders.
And our vast wealth of experience enables us to continue to develop both new and better ways to enhance the offering for our customers.
As for our real estate program we opened 60 new or relocated stores closed 9 resulting in 27 net new stores in the quarter and we remain on track to increase our retail square footage growth by approximately 2% to 3% for the year.
Now before turning it over to Dave let me just briefly touch on MinuteClinic.
Revenues increased 17% in the second quarter and MinuteClinic continued its strong growth.
We opened 14 net new clinics ending the quarter with 584 clinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia.
About 85% of the visits were paid through third-party insurance in the quarter and we continue to enhance MinuteClinics role as a collaborator with integrated health networks adding three new affiliations to the 15 health system affiliations already in place.
And physicians from these new affiliates will serve as medical directors for local MinuteClinics and the organizations will collaborate on patient education and disease management initiatives.
Well also work toward fully integrating electronic medical record systems to streamline communications around all aspects of patient care.
We continue to focus on new programs at MinuteClinic aimed at identifying and monitoring chronic conditions.
As an example were focused on identifying patients with elevated blood pressure and encouraging them to follow-up with MinuteClinic or their primary care physician.
As a result weve seen a 50% increase in blood pressure evaluations compared to the same quarter last year.
And we believe our plans to enhance our services and to double our clinic count over the next several years should position us well to play an important role in helping solve the primary care physician shortage especially with millions of newly insured individuals expected to enter the healthcare marketplace.
And on that positive note let me turn it over to Dave for his financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
I plan to walk you through a detailed review of our second quarter financial performance as well as our 2012 guidance.
Id like to start with a summary of how were using our strong free cash flow to return value to our shareholders.
In the second quarter we paid approximately $209 million in dividends.
We still anticipate a payout ratio of approximately 21% this year and are well on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 25% to 30% by 2015.
Additionally we repurchased a total of 26.6 million shares during the quarter at an average cost of $44.65 per share drawing upon approximately $1.2 billion of our current repurchase authorization.
So between dividends and share repurchases weve returned more than $1.4 billion to shareholders just in the second quarter and year-to-date weve returned more than $2.4 billion to our shareholders.
We continue to target an adjusted debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.7 times.
And even with our focus on maintaining our current credit ratings I continue to expect that at a minimum we will complete the remaining $1 billion of the current authorization throughout this year.
So between dividends and share repurchases well allocate roughly $3.8 billion to enhancing shareholder value during 2012.
We expect to continue to generate very substantial free cash flow in the near-term as well as the longer-term and our disciplined capital allocation program will remain a vital component of our efforts to drive shareholder value.
We generated $3.2 billion of free cash year-to-date and $790 million in the second quarter.
The advance payments we received from CMS in the first quarter are driving the outsized free cash flow generation year-to-date but we expect this to reverse itself in the third quarter given a normal CMS payment schedule.
Nonetheless were on track to reach our free cash flow target range for the year of $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion.
Inventory days within the Retail segment have improved by nearly three days from the end of last year and combined with gains in both DPO and DSO we have reduced our retail cash cycle by nearly four days so far this year.
And thats despite our efforts to stock up to meet demands created by the Walgreens/Express Scripts impasse.
As we continue to make process improvements the retail team remains committed to its inventory reduction target of $500 million for the full year and working capital improvements such as these are expected to continue to enhance our cash generation capabilities.
Given the lack of any sale-leaseback activity net and gross capital spending in the second quarter were both $441 million an increase of $40 million from the prior-year period.
Turning to the income statement as Larry mentioned adjusted earnings per share was $0.81 for the quarter while GAAP-diluted EPS from continuing operations came in at $0.75 per share both $0.01 above the high-end of our guidance.
The EPS beat was driven by the strong performance in the PBM a more favorable tax rate and a slightly lower weighted-average share count than expected.
And Ill address all of these in a moment but first let me walk you down the profit and loss statement.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the second quarter increased more than 16% to $30.7 billion.
Within the PBM segments net revenues increased 28% in the PBM to $18.4 billion.
The majority of growth from last year was driven by new client starts as well as the acquisition of the Universal American Medicare Part D business in late April of last year.
Additionally revenues were aided by higher drug price inflation which was partially offset by increases in the generic dispensing rate.
PBM pharmacy network revenues in the quarter increased 30% versus last years second quarter to $12.6 billion while pharmacy network claims expanded by 14%.
Total mail choice revenues increased 25% to $5.7 billion while mail choice claims increased more than 15%.
Our overall mail choice penetration rate was 22.9% up 30 basis points versus last year.
The continued adoption of Maintenance Choice by our clients and use of the program by their members helped to drive the mail penetration rate upward while the substantial growth in Medicare and Medicaid within our book of business tempered that growth.
In our retail business revenues increased 7% in the quarter to $15.8 billion.
This growth was primarily driven by our same-store sales increase of 5.6% as well as net revenues from new stores relocations and MinuteClinic which accounted for approximately 140 basis points of the increase.
And Larry talked about our pharmacy and front store comps in some detail so I wont go into those here.
Turning to gross margin the consolidated company reported 17.7% in the quarter a contraction of approximately 150 basis points compared to Q2 of 2011.
The decline is largely a mix issue given the lower gross margin PBM business grew revenues faster in the quarter than the retail business.
Within the PBM segment gross margin was down approximately 80 basis points versus last years second quarter.
The decrease was driven primarily by price compression and changes within the PBM mix of business.
Partially offsetting these negative impacts was a 390 basis point increase in the PBMs generic dispensing rate which grew from 74.1% to 78%.
New generic drug introductions had a positive impact as did our continuous efforts to encourage plan members to use generics wherever available and clinically appropriate.
Gross margins in the Retail segment was 30.1% up approximately 35 basis points over LY.
This was driven primarily by the 350 basis point increase in retail GDR expanding from 75.6% to 79.1% which was partially offset by continued pharmacy reimbursement pressure.
Additionally in the second quarter the change in inventory accounting that I highlighted on our last call was a drag on profits as we expected had we not made this accounting change we estimate that retail gross margin wouldve been up approximately 55 basis points gross profit dollars wouldve been approximately $31 million higher and our adjusted EPS wouldve been approximately $0.02 higher in the second quarter.
This impact though was considered in our prior guidance so there is no need to adjust your models for this.
For the year we continued to expect the accounting change to add approximately $0.01 to our EPS.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by 140 basis points versus the second quarter of last year.
The PBM segment SG&amp;A rate improved 45 basis points to 1.4%.
This was primarily driven by strong revenue growth as well as improvements derived from the streamlining initiative.
These were partially offset by a full quarter of expenses associated with our acquisition of the Universal American Medicare Part D business versus the partial quarter we had last year given the late April close.
In the Retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved approximately 55 basis points to 20.8%.
This improvement in expense leverage was again driven by solid sales growth and continued discipline around expense controls.
Within the Corporate Segment expenses were up approximately $14 million to $176 million.
And with the changing gross margin nearly matching the improvement in operating expenses as a percent of sales operating margin for the total enterprise was roughly flat at 5.6% slightly better than our expectations.
Operating margin in the PBM was 2.8% down about 35 basis points while operating margin at Retail was 9.3% up about 90 basis points.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 18.5% at the high end of our guidance range.
PBM operating profit exceeded our expectations and increased 14.3% above the top of our guidance range given the timing of certain expenses.
Let me also note that the cadence of earnings in the PBM this year is expected to be slightly different from the quarterly pattern we see in a typical year.
And Ill speak to that in a few minutes as it affects your models for both the third and the fourth quarters.
Going below the line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter declined approximately $16 million from last year to $132 million.
Additionally our effective income tax rate was 38.7% better than we expected and our weighted average share count was 1.29 billion shares approximately 3 million shares lower than we anticipated.
Now let me update you on our guidance for both the full year and provide guidance specifically for the third quarter.
And Ill review many of the highlights here but you can also find the details of our guidance in the slide presentation that we posted on our website this morning.
As Larry said we currently expect to deliver adjusted EPS for 2012 of between $3.32 and $3.38 per share reflecting very healthy year-over-year growth rate of 18.5% to 21%.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations expected to be between $3.09 and $3.15 per share.
Now this guidance contains the $0.05 benefit we expect to see during the second half of the year from the Walgreens/Express Scripts impasse.
It includes our projected retention benefit offset by the investments in marketing and promotions that we anticipate making to achieve that level of retention.
At a minimum we expect to generate approximately $0.03 per share of benefits in the third quarter and approximately $0.02 per share of benefit in the fourth.
We now anticipate consolidated net revenue growth for the year between 14% and 15%.
Both segments of our business should see robust revenue growth especially the PBM which continues to benefit from the addition of new clients following last years strong selling season.
Also recall that our retail estimates include a one extra day in 2012 versus 2011 for leap year.
Within the Retail segment we now expect revenues to increase 5.5% to 6.25% year-over-year an increase of 25 basis points at the high end over the prior guidance.
We expect same-store sales growth for the year to be in the range of 4% to 4.75% and same-store script growth to be in a range of 6% to 7%.
We are seeing greater pressure from generic introductions on the top line and as a result we expect the impact on pharmacy same-store sales from recent generic launches to ramp-up to more than 800 basis points in the third quarter and more than 1 000 basis points in the fourth.
We expect gross margin in the segment to be notably up over 2011 while operating expenses as a percent of revenue are expected to modestly deteriorate.
As a result operating profit in the Retail segment now is expected to grow between 14% and 15% an increase of 250 basis points at the high end from prior guidance.
Retail operating margin is now expected to increase by 65 to 70 basis points.
And as you think about your quarterly models for the remainder of the year please note that we expect an above-trend increase in Retail SG&amp;A growth in the fourth quarter.
There are essentially three factors driving this.
First we expect to incur expenses related to transition of our photo business from wet to dry photo processing.
Second we plan to make greater marketing investments.
And third we are comparing against disproportionally lower spending levels in Q4 of last year.
Recall that expenses were down 3.5% in the fourth quarter of last year as we responded to the softer sales trends we were experiencing at that time.
So that is just something to bear in mind as you do your quarterly models.
Within the PBM segment we are narrowing the range to the high end of our revenue growth expectations by 100 points  100 basis points to between 24.5% and 25.5%.
We continue to expect gross margins in the PBM to be down notably while we anticipate moderate improvements in operating expenses as a percent of revenues.
We expect a decline in PBM operating margins of between 30 and 35 basis points and an increase in PBM operating profit of between 13% and 15% for the year bringing the bottom of the range up by 200 basis points.
There are several expectations at the consolidated level that have been updated so let me quickly review those here.
Given the strength that were seeing in the use of Maintenance Choice program weve increased our outlook for the intercompany revenue eliminations as a percent of combined segment revenues to about 10.25%.
Additionally for the full year we now expect expenses in the Corporate Segment to be between $680 and $690 million and interest expense of between $530 and $540 million.
We also have increased our amortization outlook by approximately $5 million to $480 million and expect the full-year tax rate of approximately 38.7%.
Weighted average share count for the full year is expected to be 1.29 billion shares.
Our free cash flow guidance remains unchanged for the year at the range of $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion.
And while we are not changing guidance for free cash flow theres one timing headwind that I want to mention.
At year-end the Health Net PDP is expected to be in the receivable position from CMS for the plan year 2012.
This is primarily due to higher low-income subsidy in catastrophic utilization.
This cash will not be received from CMS until February of 2014 as we consolidate Health Net into the cores SilverScripts PDP business.
So this may cause us to come up  to end up near the lower end of our free cash flow guidance range.
However Im optimistic that our strong underlying free cash flow will offset this timing headwind but well see how the second half goes and well monitor the situation very closely.
For the third quarter we expect to achieve adjusted EPS in the range of $0.81 to $0.83 per share reflecting growth of 15% to 18% over the same period of LY.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $0.75 to $0.77 in the third quarter.
Operating profit in the Retail segment is expected to grow between 15% and 17% during the quarter capturing our retention assumptions that I discussed earlier.
PBM segment operating profit is expected to grow modestly at 4% to 7.5% in the quarter.
Now its important to note that weve a few factors this year that will affect the timing of profit flows between the third and fourth quarters impacting our expected PBM operating profit growth rates.
One factor affecting the quarterly cadence of PBM profits is our Medicare Part D PDP business.
This business runs as an insurance company with profits based on where the plan is performing versus its bid.
As most of you know there is a tiered risk share between the plan and the government based on performance levels versus that bid.
With that as a background in Q3 of last year we began realizing synergies from the acquisition of the Universal Americans PDP business that was not included in the Universal Americans bid resulting in more favorable performance and lower than normal loss ratios in the third quarter.
This resulted in higher profits in the third quarter of 2011.
As we then move through the risk sharing tiers in the fourth quarter we ended up sharing more of this favorable performance with CMS than we normally would have was reduced profits in the fourth quarter.
This year the progression is more typical and it will result in a tough year-over-year comparison in the third quarter and a favorable comparison in the fourth.
In fact our implied expected growth in the PBM operating profit in the fourth quarter based on the assumptions I just gave you is more than 30%.
So again this is only a matter of timing between Q3 and Q4 as our full-year growth outlook in the PBM operating profit remains solid at 13% to 15%.
Wrapping up the quarterly guidance consolidated revenues are expected to increase 11.75% to 12.75%.
In the Retail segment revenues are expected to increase at 3.5% to 4.5% versus the third quarter of 2011 taking into account the share gains from the impasse.
As I said new generic introductions are expected to greatly deflate our top line growth with the impact expected to be greater in the third quarter than we experienced in the second quarter.
Same-store sales growth is expected to be the range of 2.5% to 3.5% while same-store script growth is expected to be in the range of 6.5% to 7.5%.
Revenues of the PBM are expected to grow by 22% to 23% largely reflecting new client additions and some branded drug inflation.
So in closing the second quarter was a very strong quarter and our earnings and cash flow outlook for the remainder of the year is excellent.
We will continue to apply a disciplined approach to capital allocation using our strong free cash flow to enhance shareholder value.
And with that Ill turn it back over to Larry.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
And as I said we are very pleased with our strong operating results this quarter across the company and as we look forward were confident that we have the right plans in place to achieve significant retention of our new retail prescription volumes.
And additionally while the PBM selling season continues we have achieved positive net new business to date and were focused on the opportunities that remain.
And we believe that our competitive position remains very strong given our differentiated suite of services that cannot be easily replicated and we will continue to reinvent pharmacy for better health and for better shareholder value.
So with that lets open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning John.
When you think about the progression of generics how do you think were going to experience the MACing progression here versus past cycles? And when you look at how generics fall fiscal 2013 versus 2012 2013 will be bigger but could it be as big as 50% or 75% bigger or more balanced than that? Well John I think as weve been talking about generics for more than one year now I think what were seeing is its performing exactly the way we believed it would and the way weve modeled.
And we had said that we would maximize profitability for those drugs that had exclusivity periods once the 180-day exclusivity period expired and thats what were seeing with Plavix and with Lipitor.
And with drugs like Plavix that do not have an exclusivity period were able to maximize that profitability on day one.
I think again as we acknowledge that during that break-open period where the exclusivity period is no longer in effect while we see MACing increase we also see significant reductions in cost of goods and thats what makes a net positive for the business.
So we have not seen any surprises from the way weve modeled things from an acquisition cost as well as MACing as well as what were seeing in terms of the actual penetration of the percent of the brands that have now switched to the generic.
But it is  the impact will be greater in 2013 or now? Well John I mean well talk more about that as we provide 2013 guidance.
Obviously when we think about the first half of 2013 well be comping up against the exclusivity period of Lipitor and weve just got to model the rest of the year beyond that.
And again well talk more about that as we get closer to providing 2013 guidance.
All right.
And then with respect to front-end which was actually pretty good.
Did you see as others have sort of a slowdown toward the end in June specifically? And have you seen any signs of the consumer retrenching? And then to go along with that what do you think happens promotionally in the back half of the year with respect to the front-end? Not with Walgreens trying to recover Express business so much but as they launch their loyalty program do you think the promotional environment heats up or not so much? Yeah John let me  the first part of your question I think that we saw the second quarter get off to a slow start for some of the reasons that we had acknowledged in the prepared remarks in terms of the allergy season being frontloaded if you will as well as the Easter comp.
And quite frankly a slow start to the summer selling period as we had a pretty rainy May.
So we saw things improve as we ended up going to the latter part of the quarter.
I think the consumer still remains cautious and is looking for value and as weve talked many times we look to ExtraCare to provide that value in a very differentiated way.
I think if you back out the activity associated with the Walgreens/Express issue we see the promotional environment being relatively normal as we move into the second half of the year.
Okay.
And theres really no reason for you to have to respond to their loyalty program correct? Thats  I would think.
Well John listen we  again as weve been at the loyalty program for the better part of 15 years.
Okay? Weve got tremendous learnings.
Weve got over 70 million active cardholders and were not done.
Were continuing to look for ways to enhance value and continue to take ExtraCare to new heights.
So were always trying to figure out how we can do that and you see that come to life in the marketplace.
But in terms of your specific question in terms of do we respond to a competitor introducing a loyalty program no we respond to continuing to bring enhancements that add value to our existing program.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thank you for taking the question.
Congrats on a great quarter.
I guess just a question on the PBM side.
Can you just remind us how the progression usually goes throughout the year with renewals retention rates seemed a little lower than how you ended the year last year is this expected to increase as you complete the remainder of your renewals? Or are you seeing something different competitively on the PBM side? Thanks.
This is Dave.
Maybe Ill start with that.
Our retention rate is slightly lower than it was last year as you recall.
Larry mentioned it on the call that we had started the year with a couple of losses.
I would say that kind of where we are from a renewal standpoint through this period of the year is fairly consistent with where a typical year would land so were not seeing anything too abnormal there.
And I think that retention rate should be  our expectation is thats probably where well end the year as well.
Okay.
Acknowledging that that would be slightly less than last year.
Okay.
And just a point of clarification on a previous remark that you made regarding narrow networks that 20% of was it new clients signed up looking to enter into a narrow network excluding Maintenance Choice or  sorry could you just clarify that comment? Yeah that 20% was excluding Maintenance Choice and it was looking at new client revenues.
So typically a restricted network is one approach for customers to save money Maintenance Choice is an alternative approach.
In a way thats a restricted network too because for maintenance meds it dramatically focuses patients on mail order or CVS retail for maintenance meds so both of those are in play with many customers currently.
And so this is  was noted as being an uptick year-over-year.
Youre seeing an increase in the amount of interest into entering in narrow networks correct? Yep.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Please proceed.
Great.
Thanks so much and congratulations on a great quarter.
Actually building on the last question can you just talk about how CVS is in a unique position to really capitalize on your networks? Yeah.
Deb thanks for the comment.
And as weve discussed many times our retail organization has worked very hard with all of the PBMs to establish long-term relationships.
And relationships that focus on serving the respective client members in an effort to manage costs and improve the health of those that were serving.
And I think that strategy will continue to serve us well as we move into the future.
And the dialogues that the retail organization is having with other PBMs about the opportunities that we bring from an execution point of view with narrow or more restricted networks.
Great.
Thanks.
And then a follow up question I was very impressed with the specialty growth this quarter.
Can you discuss both on the retail side and the PBM side what youre seeing on the specialty side? Well the specialty growth is heavily focused on the PBM part of the business.
And its driven by a couple of different factors.
I mean one factor is simply signing up more PBM lives.
That in and of itself drives specialty growth.
But also the underlying utilization of specialty due to new drug introductions and the inflation of the AWPs in the specialty category are driving the revenues.
So both SAP and Aetna which were large new accounts they contributed significantly to the growth of our specialty business.
Okay.
And the last quick question  I believe you said Maintenance Choice 2.0 is currently in pilot.
I dont know if you have any feedback at this point? Well its a very good extension of the current Maintenance Choice program.
And the basic changes to that program has to do with the plan designs where we can now offer access to CVS retail for plans that dont have a mandatory mail-order program.
So people can have access to CVS retail using the lower mail-order co-pay as long as we have the ability to contact those members and inform them of those savings.
And the second feature associated with Maintenance Choice 2.0 has to do with flexibility for the consumer where were building the capability to allow consumers to basically decide for every prescription they get whether they want to have it sent to their home or whether they want to pick it up at a CVS retail store.
And they will be able to use their smartphones or go to website to just decide based on whats most convenient for them where they would like to pick up the prescription.
So its very easy plan for our customers to adopt because it doesnt require them to change the basic benefit design like what they have to do with a mandatory mail-order program.
Great.
Well thanks so much and best of luck.
Thanks Deb.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Larry or Dave can you prioritize possibly the PBM profit drivers here sequentially? Is it generics first? Deal synergy second? PBM streamlining and then maybe Aetna or other factors that drove that improvement? And then the other question just with the Walgreens resolution is there any change in the economics you have with Express or changes in your pharmacy network positioning whatsoever? Well Bob maybe Ill just touch upon the progression around the earnings sequentially.
Keep in mind too that from a cadence perspective Medicare Part D as we talked about on the call the cadence of that earnings progression is slightly different this year than has been historically.
Typically you see the front half pretty modest the back half of the year more accelerated from a profits progression perspective.
I think its clear that as we think about the PBM business in general generics are a big driver of economics in this space.
And youre seeing the generic wave begin to take effect in 2012.
And I think progression from a generic standpoint is pretty impactful this year and probably into the future as well.
And I think Bob the other thing to note is as weve discussed previously that we talked in the prepared remarks about the streamlining initiative and the benefits outweigh the costs in 2012 so thats also contributing to the performance.
Your other question Bob in terms of economics on the retail side with Express Scripts  the settlement between Walgreens has no impact in terms of the relationship that we have.
As weve acknowledged weve had a very good relationship with Express on the retail side of the business and I know our retail organization continues to look forward to working with them into the future.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I was hoping you could talk at least conceptually about profit growth as we move out of 2012 as almost all the questions Im getting are on that issue.
It appears the level of new business coming into the PBM will not be as great which is usually good for profits.
Retail on the other hand would seem poised for much slower growth going forward.
I guess Im looking for any thoughts on how we get an encore on what looks like just a spectacular 2012.
Hey Scott.
This is Dave.
Ill start this off.
I think Id hearken you back a little bit to the Analyst Day presentation where we laid out our roadmap for  Ill say profit growth projections over the next several years as well as the cash flow projections that we have for our business.
And I think both of those as we look at where we are and as we think about the next several years are pretty impactful.
And we laid out I think a series of items that we believe are going to drive our performance from an enterprise perspective.
As weve talked about were beginning a phase of the generic wave that will be very impactful from a profit-growth perspective.
Were beginning a wave of utilization that weve not seen before as the baby boomers turn into the over-65 population and utilization trends will begin to increase over time.
And then furthermore both the PBM and retail business have very specific plans to both gain share to reduce costs and improve the underlying performance of their business top to bottom as they drive more share through their fixed asset base.
So I think without giving specifics to 2013 because its clearly were way too early for that there are some very macro trends and efforts that were focused against day in and day out to drive  also to your point  an encore of 2012 as we think about the next couple of years.
All right perfect.
And I also I guess I have a little housekeeping item but also another question.
Mail choice I think is now about 9.5% of PBM script volumes with the growth being driven by new Maintenance Choice adopters.
Where can mail choice go over the next few years? And how does that impact overall enterprise profitability? And then the housekeeping items I think you said 20% of the $3.5 billion in gross wins are narrow networks but I didnt hear how much of that is also Maintenance Choice.
So I was wondering if you could give us that data? And then Ill yield.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Scott let me take the housekeeping issue and then Ill ask Per to go back to your question.
The 20% that  just to be clear the 20% that we talked about in terms of net business from a revenue perspective  excludes Maintenance Choice.
So those clients adopting Maintenance Choice would be on top of that 20%.
And do we have how much that is Larry? Thats what I was looking for.
We do not have that at this point.
Theres more dialogue taking place.
Thats something well talk about later in the year.
With respect to the growth potential you recall that Larry pointed out that we currently have about 10.8 million lives that are using our legacy Maintenance Choice program and thats the program that requires a  essentially a mandatory plan design.
We presented I think at Analyst Day last December that when we roll-out Maintenance Choice 2.0 that really allows us to access a large portion of our customer base that have a mail-order benefit but that dont require people to use mail order for maintenance meds.
So that will probably triple or so the potential in our book of business.
So we  I think we projected back at Analyst Day that we could reach in excess of 30 million lives with that type of program.
And Scott I would also go back and look at  as we introduced Maintenance Choice a few years ago keep in mind the progression of adoption.
It started off relatively slow.
And as more people adopted it it began to accelerate into either existing clients or new clients.
We expect that Maintenance Choice 2.0 will also follow that same pattern as people  first-movers will try the program test it make sure it works to their satisfaction and then can communicate that broadly into the benefit community.
Another thing that might be worth mentioning is that you may recall from our Analyst Day presentation that last year in going into 2012 we had a number of new customers that adopted Maintenance Choice right out of the box that came from other PBMs with mandatory mail-order programs.
And we see the same pattern in this years selling season.
So we have a number of new customers that are coming on board in 2013 that are putting in Maintenance Choice right out of the gate.
And how is affecting enterprise profitability? And thats it for me.
When we introduced Maintenance Choice either 1.0 or 2.0 the enterprise benefits at the end of the day so it drives disproportionate performance for us.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning Larry and Dave.
So I guess  just separate from the loyalty card discussion earlier on the call it just seems like over the past several weeks that some in the investor community have been concerned about the Express/Walgreens settlement maybe leading to some sort of overall general pricing battle on the retail side of the business to either get back or retain customers that are in transition this year.
So I guess in light of that are you able to just at least confirm that the upcoming marketplace dynamics post-September 15 are unlikely to lead any material change in overall pricing behavior on the part of CVS? I mean is this going to be sort of business as usual generally speaking? Or is it just too premature to make that statement? Im just trying to get more color on that.
Thanks.
Steve we see business as usual.
If the question is really targeted to our relationship on the retail side with other PBMs we dont see that changing as I mentioned earlier.
And as it relates to the incremental scripts that we picked up over the past several months as I acknowledged in the prepared remarks we will be doing some promotional efforts to maximize our retention.
But weve reflected that in our outlook for the balance of the year.
Okay.
But nothing out of the ordinary thats going to lead to...
Nothing out of the ordinary Steve.
Okay.
Okay thanks for the clarification.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Its Matt.
Hi Matt.
Sorry about that.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Its Matt.
Can you hear me? Yep.
We can hear you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Great.
Good morning.
Just a follow-up question on Walgreens.
You talked about your plans for fourth-quarter retention.
How do you think about the longer-term prospects for the remainder of that business? Is 50% a transitional number? Is there some expectation that over time some of that business sticks with you? And how have you gone through the thought process about those numbers? Yeah Matt I think  first of all let me just mention as weve talked many times that pharmacy customer is a sticky customer  the hardest person to lose and once you lose them the hardest person to get back.
And our pharmacy and store teams have done an outstanding job of introducing the CVS brand to those new customers over the last several months.
And the feedback weve gotten from those customers has been very positive.
Ill let Mark talk in a little more specifics in terms of what we learned over that period of time that brings us to the point that we made about how we see the retention in the fourth quarter.
And well talk more about that as it relates to 2013 at Analyst Day.
But Ill flip it over to Mark.
Thanks Larry.
Weve been working on this retention plan for nine months and as Larry said we are definitely ready.
Just a few facts I think to bolster that.
70% of our ESI customers are within two miles of an existing CVS store and 90% of those customers are within five miles of a store.
So that speaks to the stickiness of those customers.
And we know the value of each of those customers and we will be particularly focused against those top customers.
So our number one focus has been providing a great customer experience for those new customers.
Some good evidence for you might be that 55% of those customers have signed up on our auto-refill program and 83% of those customers are signed up on our ExtraCare loyalty program.
So they are well ingrained in the services that we provide within the company.
And then customer service has been a big focus for us.
Our measures are strong and our feedback has been very positive.
When you think about the response our response will be very comprehensive.
It will focus on our top customers as I mentioned earlier.
The actions will include various advertising methods promotions to retain the customers particularly our top customers.
We will also do a series of customer outreach programs in advance of the 9/15 date as well as post the 9/15 date and we will have a number of customer touch points within the store.
So we value our new ESI customers and we will do everything possible to retain them in the coming months.
And as we transition into 2013 we do have a strong retention game plan in place.
Mark those numbers are extremely helpful.
Just one follow up for you or for Dave.
I dont know if you mentioned the private label penetration within the front end this quarter on a year-to-year basis.
Any color on the progression of that would be very great.
Our private label penetration is about 17%.
Essentially flat year-over-year at this point in time.
We continue to focus on it Matt.
And as weve said we see opportunities to improve that over the coming years to get that mix up to 20%.
Got it.
Thank you guys.
Appreciate it.
No problem.
Thanks Matt.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan with RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Going back to that last question the 50% retention is it primarily tied to the statistic you gave on the amount of new customers that have already enrolled in the auto-refill? Is that the primary driver for the assumption behind retention? Frank its one of many estimates we have as far as how we think were going to drive retention into the business.
I would say the teams have done a very specific analysis  Ill say at store at customer level to understand the retention.
And we feel very good about our  the outlook for this year with that.
Okay.
One more and Ill hop.
Just curious if you could kind of give us as it related to the selling season this year have you seen more interest from say the new Catamaran or the Optum in the selling season? Have they become a bigger player? Have they migrated more upstream into some of the larger employer markets? Thanks.
They certainly are both serious competitors and we see them being active and aggressive and certainly will count them as serious competitors going forward.
Next question.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI group.
Please proceed.
I guess as we look at the selling season sort of the outcome I think this is certainly better than many of us were looking for.
I guess in terms of the progression or the competitive landscape or how some of the newly formed entities kind of approach retention et cetera I mean what was sort of the bigger surprises to you just in terms of what others were doing? And how did you think about that as it relates to 2014 and kind of how some of the newer entrants are going to be positioning themselves going forward? And how do you feel like that matches up against what youve been doing with your offering? I cant say that there are any surprises in that regard.
I think its a healthy competitive environment where you now have multiple business models to sort of choose from.
I think we feel very good about our ability to differentiate what we offer in ways that are not easily replicable by others.
So as I mentioned earlier I think Maintenance Choice clearly is a competitive edge for us especially with customers that previously have had mandatory mail order programs and likewise with health plans there is a lot of interest in our retail sort of footprint and the ability to use both the pharmacists as well as the MinuteClinics as adjuncts to the way they manage their healthcare services.
So we have I think a pretty interesting suite of services that will serve us well in the future competitive environment.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much and good morning.
I just had a couple of...
Good morning Lisa.
Good morning.
Couple quick follow up questions around the selling season.
Clearly we all know about the lessons that youve had on the health plan side but the $3.5 billion of net wins was much better than were anticipating.
Can you just help us understand how much of that is maybe health plans versus corporate business as we start to think about profitability going into next year? And then as a follow up to that Per weve talked to some of your customers Maintenance Choice has been a big driver around retention.
Can you talk about retention rates around Maintenance Choice and the competitive dynamic that that brings in maintaining some your customers? Sure.
First Lisa as you know we probably will defer until much later in the year to give you sort of a more in-depth view of the specific wins and so on in the selling season but as Larry mentioned in his introductory comments it really kind of cuts across the board both Fortune 100 type companies that have joined us and a number of them with Maintenance Choice right out of the gate.
But also in the health plan segment both the commercial health plan segment as well as the Medicare Medicaid segments and as you look from prior presentations the managed Medicaid area is one that is growing very rapidly for us both in terms of new customers but also existing customers taking on new states or new populations that are rolled into the managed Medicaid program.
So thats the big picture and I think later on in the fall well probably be able to share with you more details in terms of the specific accounts and so on.
And then I guess just one other follow up question around narrow networks and I guess Larry this would be for you or for Mark.
If we look at the settlement between Walgreens and Express Scripts its only for them to participate in the broadest networks for Express Scripts so clearly theyre pushing narrow networks as well this selling season like you did.
What are you hearing from those in the marketplace? My guess would be that youre part of many of the narrow networks for Express than some of the others.
Are you starting to hear that were seeing traction with others in the marketplace around narrow networks as well? Well Lisa I mean as we talked were seeing whats happening in the Caremark book of business with new clients and were hearing and seeing similar results from the retail side of the business.
And I think as we mentioned earlier having a long-term relationship with the other PBMs becomes extremely important in terms of being a partner with others as theyre looking to create narrow or differentiated offerings in the marketplace.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Well take one more question please.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Good morning and thank you for taking my question.
Good morning.
I have a follow up on the selling season and then another question.
So when you look at your net new business of $600 million which came in ahead of expectations can you provide some color on your underlying assumption? Specifically does the number include some second half 2012 business wins thats spill into 2013? Or only 2013 new starts? And are you also taking into account growth that your managed care partners are seeing? It does include the annualization of some of the accounts that came on in the second half of 2012.
Okay.
Which is consistent with our methodology.
Thats the way we always report it.
Right.
Okay.
But Ricky it would not include anticipated growth that is not quantified at this point in time.
That would not be in that number.
Okay thats helpful.
So youre not assuming growth of your base business in it? Thats correct.
Okay.
And then when we think about the year-over-year impact from Walgreens just to help us sort of model did you see some benefit already in 4Q 2011 that we should kind of like factor in as we think about 4Q 2012? Ricky in the fourth quarter we saw a very small benefit.
We really began to see most of the benefit in the January timeframe.
We saw a little bit in December.
But as we stated back then it was not material to our results.
Ricky just to clarify one thing.
As I said in response to an earlier question we do include new lives that are added in the managed Medicare space to some of our existing customers as some of the states roll in new lives into the managed Medicaid program from fee-for-service Medicare.
And so some of our existing customers pick up additional lives as a result of that.
But that is known its not estimated at this point in time.
Exactly.
Okay.
But thats helpful because that could help us bridge the difference between the losses weve heard of and some of the wins versus the number that youve provided today.
Youll get more detail later on in the year as we get closer to the end of the selling season.
Okay thank you.
Thank you.
Okay everyone thanks for your interest in CVS Caremark and well talk to you soon.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Third Quarter CVS Caremark Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday November 6 2012.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Nancy Christal Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Silvanna.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm here with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will review our financials.
Per Lofberg Executive Vice President of CVS Caremark; Jon Roberts President of Caremark; and Mark Cosby President of CVS/pharmacy are also with us today and will participate in the question and answer session following our prepared remarks.
[Operator Instructions] I have a couple of quick reminders today.
First we'll host our 2012 Analyst Day on the morning of Thursday December 13 in New York City.
At that time we'll provide 2013 guidance as well as a comprehensive update on our growth strategy.
In addition to Larry Dave Per Jon and Mark you'll also have the opportunity to hear from Dr.
Troy Brennan our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer; and Dr.
Andy Sussman our President of MinuteClinic and Associate Chief Medical Officer.
If you haven't received an invitation and would like to attend please contact my office.
Expect a big crowd and look forward to seeing many of you there.
For those of you who can't attend in person the meeting will of course be webcast.
Second we posted a slide presentation on our website this morning which summarizes the information on this call as well as key facts and figures around our operating performance and guidance.
I recommend that you take a look at the slides.
Additionally please note that we plan to file our Form 10-Q before the close of business today and it will be available through our website at that time.
During this call we'll discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our companys performance namely free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for 1 year.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation we'll make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and that you review the section entitled Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements in our most recently filed quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Okay thank you Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
As Nancy said we have our Analyst Day coming up next month.
So our business update this morning will be a bit more compact than what you typically hear on our quarterly call.
Now that said we're very pleased with the strong third quarter results we announced today.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.85.
That's up 21% from the same quarter last year and $0.02 above the high end of our guidance.
Results were strong across the enterprise.
Operating profit in our Retail segment was up 16.1% within the expected range while operating profit in our PBM was up 19.4% well ahead of our expectations.
Now in addition to posting strong third quarter results we're raising and narrowing our guidance for the full year.
We now expect to achieve adjusted EPS for 2012 in the range of $3.38 to $3.41.
That's up from our previous range of $3.32 to $3.38.
Our revised guidance reflects the overperformance in the third quarter along with the anticipated $0.01 per share benefit from the accelerated share repurchase program announced in September.
Additionally it reflects our optimism about exceeding our initial goal related to the Walgreens-Express dispute.
For year end we now expect to retain at least 60% of the scripts we picked up during the impasse.
So obviously we're very pleased with the continued upward trend in our expectations.
And Dave will provide the details of our third quarter results as well as guidance for the fourth quarter during his financial review.
Now before we get to that let me provide a brief business update and I'll begin with our PBM.
Now since our last call we continued to make good progress on the 2013 selling season.
Now with about 75% of our client renewals completed to date our retention rate stands at 96%.
As for new business the numbers haven't changed materially from the second quarter update and we'll provide a detailed review of the '13 selling season on Analyst Day.
And by then we will also be able to provide a good estimate of the net effect of the Medicare Part D selling season which includes the assignment of low-income subsidy lives along with the results of the open enrollment period which ends on December 7.
And as we noted on our last earnings call we qualified in 30 of the 33 regions that we participate in today.
Now during the selling season we continued to demonstrate superior value with our differentiated offerings which continue to gain traction with existing clients as well as help us attract new ones.
So let me briefly review the progress on our 2 unique integration sweet-spot programs Maintenance Choice and Pharmacy Advisor.
We now have approximately 14.5 million lives covered by 1 040 plans that have implemented or committed to implement our Maintenance Choice offerings through Q1 of '13.
Now that number is up from 10.7 million lives at our last quarterly update and it includes plans that have adopted our new 2.0 offering.
We continue to see more of our new clients adopting one of our Maintenance Choice offerings right out of the gate and we believe that the rollout of 2.0 will ultimately improve adoption into the Maintenance Choice program once payors and their members begin to experience some of the savings and benefits of the program.
And as we've discussed in the past Pharmacy Advisor capitalizes on our integrated assets to lower health care costs and improve the health of those we serve.
We currently have over 900 clients representing 16.3 million lives enrolled in the diabetes program and just under 600 clients with 11 million lives enrolled in the cardiovascular program.
Now we expect to offer 5 more Pharmacy Advisor programs for additional chronic diseases in 2013 and we're also excited to announce the launch of Pharmacy Advisor to Medicare clients beginning next year.
Now let me touch on a few of our key growth drivers.
Most notably our Specialty Pharmacy business continued to achieve significant growth with revenues increasing a very strong 34% year-over-year.
This Specialty growth was driven by new PBM clients new product launches along with drug price inflation.
Just a quick update on Aetna.
The client migration onto our platform is accelerating and it's proceeding very nicely.
We have successfully transitioned multiple waves of Aetna clients and we have further migration scheduled for the remainder of this year and into 2013.
And then as for our streamlining initiative we remain on track to deliver over $1 billion of cumulative cost savings through 2015.
Now we expect to hit the full run rate of annual savings $225 million to $275 million beginning in '14.
And as we've talked in the past this initiative is streamlining PBM operations to improve productivity rationalizing capacity and consolidating our adjudication platforms to 1 destination platform with enhanced capabilities.
We just launched our final migration wave for 2012 and we anticipate that approximately 2/3 of our clients will be on that destination platform by the end of this year.
Let me now turn to the Retail business.
In the third quarter our same-store sales increased 4.3%.
Pharmacy comps increased 5.3% in the quarter with front store comps increasing 2.2%.
Now Pharmacy comps were negatively impacted by more than 900 basis points from the rapidly growing impact of generics and that's up from about 500 basis points in the second quarter and it's expected to grow to more than 1 000 basis points in Q4.
Script comps increased 11.1% on a 30-day supply basis 8.7% when counting 90-day supplies as 1 script.
Our script growth reflects healthy underlying growth across all major drug classes as well as an increase in new related scripts.
And the key drivers of improved script growth trends across the industry include an uptick in physician visits we're seeing accelerating growth in Medicare Part D along with improved adherence to maintenance medications driven by the greater use of generics.
Our strong script growth also reflects a significant benefit from the Walgreens-Express dispute.
Now similar to last quarter we estimate that the impasse added 400 to 430 basis points to our script comp in the third quarter equating to about 6.5 million to 7 million scripts.
Now we had expected a $0.05 per share benefit in the third and fourth quarters combined.
And in Q3 we realized about a $0.035 benefit.
Now we have been tracking ahead of our retention expectations in the 7 weeks since Walgreens reentered the broadest Express Scripts network.
So in the fourth quarter we now expect at least another $0.025 benefit.
And the new estimate assumes that we retain as I mentioned earlier at least 60% of the prescription volumes gained from the dispute in Q4 and that's up from our previous estimate of at least 50%.
And again these estimates are net of the projected investments we are making to maximize retention and we will certainly share more specifics with you at our Analyst Day as it relates to the 2013 outlook.
Now as for the front store business both customer traffic and average front store ticket increased in the quarter.
We estimate that the Walgreens-Express impasse positively impacted our front store comp by about 150 basis points in the quarter.
Now we also saw strength in allergy as well as flu-related sales in the front end.
I think it's important to note that the latest data shows that CVS has gained front store share versus a year ago.
And when compared to drug and multi-outlet competitors our market share growth in the quarter was 103 and 6 basis points respectively.
Now our ExtraCare loyalty program continues to be a key differentiator.
And with 15 years of history 70 million active cardholders we have a significant lead on our competitors and we deliver value to our customers every time they shop.
Year-to-date our ExtraCare members have received $2.7 billion that's billion with a B in value from savings and ExtraBucks rewards.
And we have opportunities to make it even better.
For example we're enhancing our digital capabilities to improve the in-store online and mobile experiences for our customers.
And our digital strategy that's powered by the personalization of ExtraCare gives us a tremendous opportunity to bring truly customized communications and offers to our customers.
And while we don't believe our loyalty program is a customer acquisition tool it is an excellent customer retention tool.
And approximately 85% of our new high-value Express Scripts customers have enrolled in ExtraCare adding to our confidence in the retention estimates.
As for our real estate program we opened 63 new or relocated stores closing 3.
That resulted in 42 net new stores in the quarter and we remain on track to increase our retail square footage by approximately 2% to 3% for the year.
Let me touch briefly on MinuteClinic.
MinuteClinic continued its strong growth trajectory with revenues increasing 43% versus the third quarter last year.
Now we opened 25 net new clinics ending the quarter with 609 clinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia.
Now building on our record for clinical quality MinuteClinic was reaccredited by the Joint Commission that's the independent certifying body for more than 19 000 health care organizations across the country.
In addition we continue to enhance MinuteClinic's role as a health care collaborator adding 2 new affiliations the UCLA Health System and the Oklahoma University Physicians bringing us to 20 health system affiliations.
And Andy Sussman will speak more about all of this on Analyst Day.
Now before I turn it over to Dave I do want to touch on the estimated impact on our business from Hurricane Sandy.
At the peak of the storm more than 1 100 stores in the affected areas were closed all but 20 have since reopened and about 15 stores have suffered extensive damage.
And we do not have dates as to when they will reopen at this point in time.
All things considered we're estimating a potential $0.01 per share negative impact to our EPS in the fourth quarter from Sandy which is contemplated in the low end of the guidance range that Dave will provide for Q4.
Now I also want to acknowledge those on this call that are probably still dealing with the aftermath.
We certainly appreciate your time today and hope that your life is returning to normal.
And I also want to thank our colleagues across the company who have done extraordinary things to get our stores operational in addition to helping the communities most affected.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
This morning I will lead you through a quick review of our third quarter results.
I'll also finish up with a look at our guidance for the full year of 2012 as well as our guidance for the fourth quarter specifically.
I'll start with a summary of how we're using our strong free cash flow to return value to our shareholders.
In September we announced that our board authorized another $6 billion of share repurchases.
We quickly commenced an accelerated share repurchase program that completed our prior authorization and utilized $1 billion of this new authorization.
And between open market repurchases on our prior authorization and the ASR we repurchased a total of 30.1 million shares for approximately $2 billion in the third quarter at an average cost of $45.69 per share.
Additionally we paid approximately $207 million in dividends.
We still anticipate a payout ratio of approximately 21% this year and are on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 25% to 30% by 2015.
So between dividends and share repurchases we've returned more than $2.2 billion to our shareholders just in the third quarter alone.
Our expectation is that between dividends and share repurchases we will return more than $4.8 billion to our shareholders throughout 2012.
Going forward we expect to continue to generate very substantial free cash flow and our disciplined approach to capital allocation will remain a vital component of our efforts to drive shareholder value.
We generated $4.1 billion of free cash flow year-to-date and $854 million in the third quarter down about $650 million from the same period a year ago.
As expected this was driven by the timing of payments from CMS associated with our Medicare Part D business.
We essentially benefited from an earlier payment in Q3 of last year which did not recur this year the impact of which was about $1 billion favorable in 2011.
And now this does not affect the yearly cash flow and we're well on track to reach our free cash flow target range for the year of $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion.
Inventory days within the Retail segment have improved by more than 3 days from the end of last year.
Combined with gains in DPO and DSO we have reduced our Retail cash cycle by nearly 5 days thus far this year.
As we continue to make process improvements the Retail team remains committed to its inventory reduction target of $500 million for the full year.
And working capital improvements such as these are expected to continue to enhance our cash generation capabilities.
We had a fair amount of sale leaseback activity in the third quarter with net proceeds of $427 million.
With gross capital expenditures of $496 million net capital expenditures were $69 million for the quarter.
As for the income statement adjusted EPS and GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations came in $0.02 above the high end of our guidance at $0.85 per share and $0.79 per share respectively.
The EPS beat was driven primarily by the overperformance in the PBM and I'll address that in a moment.
But first let me quickly walk down the P&amp;L.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the third quarter increased more than 13% to $30.2 billion.
Within the segments net revenues increased 22% in the PBM to $18.1 billion.
The majority of growth over last year was driven by the significant number of new client starts along with increased volumes in Medicare Part D.
The Medicare Part D growth was driven by both previous acquisitions and members gained in 2012.
Additionally PBM revenue growth was driven by drug price inflation particularly in our Specialty business.
Partially offsetting these factors was the increase in the generic dispensing rate which climbed 500 basis points higher in the quarter versus the same quarter of LY.
In our Retail business revenues increased 5.5% in the quarter to $15.5 billion.
This growth was driven by our 4.3% same-store sales increase as well as growth from new stores relocations and MinuteClinic.
Turning to gross margin.
We reported 18.7% for the consolidated company in the quarter a contraction of approximately 75 basis points compared to Q3 of '11.
As with prior quarters the decline is mainly a mix issue given that the PBM revenue growth outpaced Retail growth.
As you know the PBM business has lower gross margins than Retail hence the decline at the enterprise level.
Within the PBM segment gross profit dollars increased 18.3% year-over-year.
The increase was considerably better than expected due to favorable GDR performance as well as rebates.
Gross profit margin was down approximately 20 basis points versus last year's third quarter.
The positive effect of the 500 basis points increase in the PBM's generic dispensing rate was more than offset by price compression and changes within the PBM mix of business.
Gross margin in the Retail segment was 30.1% up approximately 85 basis points over LY.
This improvement was driven primarily by the 420 basis point increase in Retail GDR.
That benefit was partially offset by continued pharmacy reimbursement pressures.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenue improved by approximately 80 basis points versus the third quarter of '11.
The PBM segment's SG&amp;A rate improved approximately 10 basis points to 1.6%.
This was primarily driven by strong revenue growth as well as improvements derived from the streamlining effort.
In the Retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales was essentially flat to last year at 21.7% while expenses grew by 5.8%.
Within the Corporate segment expenses were up approximately $15 million to $169 million in the quarter.
So at the enterprise level operating margin for the total enterprise was roughly flat improving by approximately 5 basis points to 6%.
Operating margin in the PBM was 4.3% down only 10 basis points while operating margin at Retail was 8.4% up about 75 basis points.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 16.1% within our guidance range.
PBM operating profit exceeded our expectations increasing 19.4%.
That was driven by outperformance in gross profit.
And as I noted earlier that was a result of better generic utilization and rebate performance.
Going below the line on the consolidated income statement.
Net interest expense in the quarter declined approximately $21 million from last year to $134 million.
Additionally our effective income tax rate was 39.8% higher than expected primarily due to an increase in reserves for state income taxes.
Our weighted average share count was 1.27 billion shares approximately 5 million shares lower than anticipated due to the commencement of the ASR in September which had no material impact on our earnings for the quarter.
Now let me turn to our 2012 guidance which we both raised and narrowed this morning.
We currently expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share of $3.38 to $3.41 and GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.15 to $3.18 per share.
This equates to growth of approximately 21% to 22%.
Our revised guidance reflects our strong performance throughout the first 9 months of this year as well as our confidence in our outlook.
Embedded in this guidance are share repurchases totaling $4 billion for the year.
This includes the $0.01 per share accretive impact of the $1.2 billion accelerated share repurchase we announced in September.
It also reflects our optimism about retaining in the fourth quarter at least 60% of the scripts we picked up during the Walgreen-Express Scripts impasse.
Furthermore the low end of our guidance contemplates a $0.01 per share negative impact to our EPS in the fourth quarter from Sandy.
This includes storm damage as well as any business interruption related to the significant storm.
Now let me walk you through the fourth quarter.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.08 per share to $1.11 per share reflecting growth of approximately 21% to 24% from the $0.89 we reported last year.
GAAP EPS from continuing operation is expected to be in a range of $1.02 to $1.05 per share.
Keep in mind that due to the significant amount of repurchase activity in the last 4 months of the year and its effect on our weighted average share count the sum of our reported quarterly EPS results is not expected to add up to our reported full year EPS.
As it stands right now the year should be about $0.01 less than the sum of the quarters.
This is simply mathematical rounding.
So please take that into account when modeling your expectations.
We expect the PBM segment's operating profit to increase 38% to 41% in the fourth quarter.
As expected we are benefiting from a normal progression of increasing profitability as we move through the year in our Medicare Part D business.
In addition this strong growth expectation reflects the improvements in the net impact of the streamlining cost and benefits as well as the positive impact of generics on our results.
We expect the Retail segment's operating profit to increase 6% to 8% in the fourth quarter.
This growth is expected to be driven by solid performance in the underlying business.
This includes the positive impact of new generics as well as a strong start to the cough and cold business.
It's also driven by the combined benefits -- the continued benefit we expect from the Walgreens-Express impasse.
For the PBM segment we expect revenues to increase 15.5% to 16.5% in the fourth quarter.
For the Retail segment we expect revenue to increase 3% to 4% same-store sales to increase 2% to 3% and same-store scripts to increase 7% to 8% in the fourth quarter.
As a result for the total enterprise in the quarter we expect revenues to be up approximately 9.25% to 10.25% from 2011 levels.
This is after intercompany eliminations which are projected to equal about 9.75% of the combined segment revenues.
For the total company gross profit margins are expected to be notably up from last year's fourth quarter as both the Retail and the PBM segments will experience expansion.
Expectations are that gross margin in the Retail segment will be significantly up due to the substantial amount of new generics that have been introduced throughout the year while gross margin in the PBM segment will be notably up also mostly due to new generics partially offset by some price compression.
For the total company operating expenses are expected to be approximately 13% of consolidated revenues in the fourth quarter.
The PBM should show modest improvement as we reap the benefits from streamlining.
As I noted on the second quarter call Retail expense leverage should deteriorate significantly due to the impact of generics the fact that we are comparing against disproportionately lower spending in Q4 of last year and the investments we're making in the business to drive longer-term performance.
And we expect operating expenses in the Corporate segment to be approximately $180 million.
As a result we expect operating margin for the total company in the quarter to be moderately up from last year's fourth quarter.
We expect net interest expense of between $135 million and $140 million and a tax rate of approximately 38.6% in the fourth quarter.
We anticipate that we'll have approximately 1.26 billion weighted average shares for the quarter which would imply approximately 1.28 billion for the full year.
In the fourth quarter we expect total consolidated amortization to be approximately $120 million.
Combined with estimated depreciation we still project approximately $1.7 billion in D&amp;A for the full year of '12.
As for capital spending for the year we continue to expect net capital expenditures of between $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion with proceeds from sale leasebacks of between $500 million and $600 million.
We expect to generate cash flow from operations in the range of $6.2 billion to $6.4 billion for the year and free cash flow in the range of $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion.
As we've demonstrated throughout this year we are keenly focused on enhancing our cash flow through solid working capital and capital expenditure discipline.
The working capital improvements we've achieved and continue to drive specifically within inventory will continue to drive our free cash flow performance building upon our strong year-to-date results.
Again we are focused on using our strong free cash flow to drive shareholder value now and as well into the future.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
As I said we're certainly very pleased with our strong enterprise-wide results this quarter.
And before we open it up for your questions I just want to briefly acknowledge that with Election Day finally here today's outcome will certainly have an impact on the direction of health care over the next several years.
And that said I believe that our business is well positioned regardless of the outcome of today's election.
But we certainly know the issues around cost quality and access facing our nation's health care system.
And we are confident in our ability to provide innovative solutions to help address them however health care reform takes shape and we'll certainly talk a lot more about that on Analyst Day.
So with that we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> If we look at the news on Monday from one of your competitors and from last night both your pharmacy and PBM seemed to really be outperforming.
What does that tell you about the competitive landscape at this point in the game? Well Deb I think it's reflecting many of the things that we've been talking about that we believe are differentiators in our business.
And whether it's the retention that we're seeing from the Walgreens-Express customers as well as some of the programs that we have that are improving medication adherence.
And we do have some favorable industry trends driving pharmacy performance as well.
And we talked about physician visits being up over the past 6 months as well as Med D scripts being up.
We think that that is being driven by more generics in the market making prescriptions more affordable as well as seniors beginning to get some relief from the doughnut hole.
And I think we also mentioned that we are seeing an uptick in flu-related prescriptions.
But we're very happy with our performance.
And we see again the programs that we have in the market making a meaningful difference.
Research Division</strong> With such a unique positioning in the competitive landscape and as you continue to do more from a digital perspective how do you think that you can continue to enhance your relationship with your customer? Well Deb as we've often talked about I'll kick it off and then flip it over to Mark to provide some -- a few examples.
But being in the loyalty card business for more than 15 years and having 70 million active cardholders we have learned an awful lot from our customers about what they value how they shop and how we can help to improve that experience.
And I'll flip it over to Mark and he can add some color to that.
Our loyalty program and personalization is a huge piece of our past.
It's also a big part of our future.
As Larry said we do have the most successful and largest program in the country.
300 million cards issued 70 million active 15-year history.
During that time 6 billion personalized message delivered.
So we know what our customers want and we know how to deliver it.
And we become smarter every year with how to drive those results across time.
And one unique feature of the card is that we do deliver value every time that a customer purchases with us and that has led to over $2.7 billion of savings for our customers this year.
So we've rolled out a bunch of initiatives over the course of the last year and we will continue to do so.
The 2 biggest innovations around the loyalty campaign are our Beauty Club and our digital program.
On the beauty front this is the second year of the program 10 million active members.
They spend $50 they get $5 back.
And it's a big contributor to why our beauty share is up over the course of the last year.
And to your question the other big piece that's happened within our loyalty program is a lot of innovation around digital.
We've launched this past year a search to send card where rewards are sent directly to the cards versus customers needing to use paper.
We have a new digital application that allows our customers to scan the ExtraCare card and they can use that as opposed to bringing their card around with them.
We've done quite a bit around our circular to try to make that more personalized.
So we can now deliver messages to customers personalized to their spending history and to their spending future.
So we have a comprehensive mobile strategy that we've developed and we'll talk more about that when we get to the analyst meeting as well as a number of personalization features that we feel very strong about coming into the future.
So a very strong and successful loyalty program big focus for our future.
And game plan is to maintain our competitive advantage both on the digital front as well as on the loyalty front in the coming years.
Research Division</strong> And I'll throw one quick one out there.
I didn't know if it was also helping with the retention of the Walgreens customers if there's anything you guys were doing in terms of medication adherence from a digital perspective if that was helping as well.
Well Deb as we've talked we've been able to enroll about 85% of the new customers that we've seen as a result of the impasse in ExtraCare.
That allows us again as Mark mentioned to communicate in a very personalized fashion.
And we're beginning to explore some of the opportunities around Refill Reminders digitally.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple of questions around -- on the PBM side around the selling season.
I know you're going to give a lot more detail in December.
But Per Larry Jon if someone can maybe talk about what are the trends that you're seeing.
It sounds to me like retention was very strong this year that perhaps as you went in you renewed clients you were upselling them to Maintenance Choice given the Maintenance Choice numbers you're talking about.
Can you talk about what you saw around narrow networks? And also what are you seeing around group member attrition as we start to move forward? Do you see that plans are trying to make decisions as they think about 2014 in anticipation of the Affordable Care Act? Lisa this is Jon.
So in the selling season which it was an active selling season we saw our fees up 7% over last year we saw a lot of interest in low-cost channels and a lot of interest in low-cost products.
So low-cost channels being mail service Maintenance Choice and limited networks.
With mail choice Larry talked about 2013 and what we're going to expect to see from a growth.
And that's a reflection of our Maintenance Choice 2.0 combined with our traditional Maintenance Choice.
And we'll give more details about that as we get to Analyst Day.
So as far as what's happening with group members we really haven't seen a lot of activity there.
And what we have seen is companies moving their retirees into EGWP so we're seeing activity there.
But they're essentially moving their entire block of retirees into EGWP plans which we provide all the capabilities to service them.
So all in all a successful selling season.
Haven't seen much of a change in the dynamics but we have seen a lot of interest in our programs and a lot of adoption of our programs right out of the gate.
And Lisa you asked about 2014 and it's obviously very early.
Like most forecasts I mean we fully expect that there would be employers probably mid-sized and small employers who will begin to phase out their benefit programs and move people into exchanges where they will shop for individual coverage.
And we're gearing up to deal with that transition although I think it will probably be at least another year or so before we'll see any real activity in that area.
Research Division</strong> So you're not seeing any activity today Per in 2013 where you're seeing people start to move individuals away from providing benefits in 2013 in anticipation that they're going to be able to picked up in '14? So is it right to characterize that 2013 should still be a pretty status quo year around membership utilization and that the real opportunity for CVS Caremark is the fact that you've been able to move people into programs that are beneficial to them but also more beneficial to you from an earnings perspective whether it's Maintenance Choice narrow networks getting more people into a CVS store? Is that the right way to characterize it? Yes I think the EGWP trend that Jon spoke about will probably in all likelihood continue into 2013 and beyond.
But the exit of small and mid-sized employers from providing health coverage is probably a little further out than that.
And Lisa as far as the economic climate this is not a new issue okay? As we all know we've been dealing with this for a couple of years now in terms of a challenging economic environment.
And as we move into '13 we don't see that environment changing materially from today either getting better or getting worse.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> So Larry if you look at some of the unique engagement initiatives you guys have can you maybe give us a little color in terms of the degree to which you're raising compliance and the degree to which you are lowering the run rate in medical costs just generally speaking? And at what point does that become if it becomes a game changer in being able to win new contracts that are out there? Or do you think it doesn't become a game changer for a while? Yes John it's a great question.
And we'll provide -- we'll go into a fair amount of detail on this at Analyst Day and we'll actually quantify some of the benefits that we're seeing in terms of improving the medication possession ratio.
I think we are beginning to see some of the step changes in terms of the importance.
If you think about the Star ratings around some of the Medicare programs that prescription adherence and some of the clinical outcomes that we're working on and talking about make up a big portion of the evaluation of those Star ratings.
So I think it is beginning to happen as we speak.
I don't think it's years away.
I think it's here today and it will only grow from here.
John this is Jon.
I just wanted to add as we're out talking to clients we talk about managing the bad trend which PBMs have traditionally done but we also talk about managing good trend.
And we've developed a pharmacy economic model that we can run against a client's member base and we can show them by therapeutic class that if they're able to improve their adherence with their members up to the 80% medication possession ratio which is considered adherent what the medical offset will be.
And so we've seen a lot of interest from our clients in this and that's why the adoption of Pharmacy Advisor which is really targeted around adherence has really taken hold in the marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then secondly so Larry if you think a little bit longer term in the Retail business as your EBIT margin has sort of crept to some record levels here and generics will kind of go by the wayside at some point or will be less of a driver in the next year or 2 what do you think -- as you put your strategic hat on what do you guys think you need to do to keep driving EBIT margin higher on the Retail side? Is it more cost-related? Is it more mix-related? Things you're not selling you should be selling? What do you think about that? Yes John let me -- if you look at our operation okay and as we think about utilization that next prescription becomes the most profitable one as it relates to leveraging the fixed costs we have in the Retail stores.
And I think that's a little bit of what we're seeing this year okay as we've capitalized on the Walgreens-Express dispute and something that we'll continue to be focused on.
And I think I'll flip it over to Mark to talk about some of the opportunities that we have around store brands and that will be more to the margin side of things.
Thanks Larry.
Well certainly growth is the primary thing.
So we have a number of issues that we'll review at the Analyst Day to drive growth.
But also a piece of the puzzle is to drive the margin and continue to focus on the margin.
As Larry said one of our big front store components that we will continue to push forward is on the store brand front.
We have a number of new launches that will come into 2013.
And then we're working on a plan as we speak that would take the number significantly above where we are today both from a sales perspective but even more from a margin perspective.
John I think the other one I mentioned Dave talked a little bit about our inventory performance at Retail.
That is still an opportunity for us.
Even though we've made some improvements over the past 2 years we still have more opportunity there.
And that will also help from a productivity and efficiency point of view.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a bit about some of the underlying trends on sort of the front end? I mean can you tease out sort of what we've been seeing in terms of net benefit from more bodies in the store vis--vis the Express-WAG pickup versus some of the kind of changes you've made and strategic investments you've made on that side of the business in terms of either boosting traffic or basket et cetera? Yes Ross.
We have seen an increase in both customer traffic as well as the average ticket.
And again at the risk of being redundant I think that we continue to see ExtraCare as the differentiator that drives some of the shared growth that we're seeing.
I think we have also done a number of things around promotion as we think about making our promotional program more efficient from an expense and a margin point of view.
And we're pleased that those things are working.
I would just add in addition to ExtraCare and the personalization efforts that we have there we've done quite a bit with our field team to try to enhance their focus around growth and around sales.
And we've given them a number of tools to empower them and to help them be successful in driving their results.
And I think if you walk our stores you'll see a much greater focus there that will help us today and will help us into the future.
Research Division</strong> And maybe on Specialty it seems like that continues to come at least from an inflation basis higher than expects and continues to be kind of a pain point for drug trend at the customer level.
Could you talk a bit about sort of the conversations you had during the selling season or how you're thinking about that as we sort of transition into the next year and into the next few years just based on whether you think that moderates how you're delivering sort of a differentiated solution in that market and in total how you're thinking about sort of the growth trajectory of that piece? Yes Ross.
This is Jon.
So great question.
And when you look at Specialty trend which is running in the high-teens it's really driven by really 3 components.
One is price inflation which is pretty similar to what we see in the commercial space.
But the 2 components that are driving it even higher are mix.
So as new drugs come to the market and they're more expensive that drives the average cost of specialty for a payor.
And then the third thing is utilization.
We're seeing utilization.
So a new hepatitis C drug came on the market boceprevir and that was additive to the therapy that somebody with hepatitis C gets treated with.
So you're seeing an increase in overall spend in that category as an example.
So it is first and foremost on the minds of our clients and they're looking to us for help.
And we have many programs that can help actually manage that trend.
So things like our Specialty Guideline Management program where we make sure that patients that are prescribed specialty drugs that it's appropriate for them to get the drugs.
And then we manage it carefully around the guidelines that are provided to make sure that the dosage is right and the frequency of utilization is appropriate.
And then we have other programs that help manage preferred drugs within the specialty categories and then we have exclusive programs where we manage through our channels.
So all in all we have programs that can deliver and take -- reduce trend by 20%.
And so we think this is an important area.
When you look at the pipeline half the pipeline is specialty.
So it's going to be a continued focus for our clients.
And we think it's a significant growth opportunity for us moving forward.
And Ross clients are also worried about that portion of specialty that's flowing through the medical benefit.
And we'll look forward to sharing some information on some pilots that we have under way to manage that component of specialty that -- I know I've heard it from some clients that "Hey you guys have done a great job managing the traditional spend okay? And how do we bring some of those same tools to that component of specialty that's flowing through the medical benefits?" So you'll hear more about that next month.
Our next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was -- I'd like to maybe talk a little bit about the comments that Express Scripts made yesterday.
And also I maybe didn't understand some of the comments about gross margin in the PBM for the third quarter and the outlook for the fourth quarter because I think they seemed to be different more positive in the fourth quarter.
And I don't know if that's related to what Express Scripts said.
But maybe you could talk about pricing pressures and other things like that in the PBM.
Meredith it's Dave.
Maybe I'll start with kind of the gross margin in the PBM.
First and foremost there's kind of 2 things driving gross margin performance in Q3 and we see that continuing into Q4.
As we look at Q3 which really driven around higher-than-anticipated generic utilization trends and secondly our performance from a branded manufacturer rebate yield perspective.
And we've been very focused on that as you know over the past several periods.
And both of those outperformed our expectation.
As we cycle into Q4 those trends continue plus we continue to step ourselves into the period of time from a Medicare Part D perspective where the profitability accelerates in the back half of the year.
So that is also a trend that from a PBM perspective that trends into Q4 that's driving our gross profit performance in that business.
So we're very pleased with our progress there.
Meredith let me just add one other point because we've talked an awful lot over the last couple of years about EBITDA per script.
And the fact that that is not a good measure of performance you can get false positives and false negatives.
And so even though the number is now better than it was a year ago we're still saying the same thing.
We don't believe that that is the right measure of performance that at the end of the day it's about operating profit growth.
And we're seeing that number favorable.
Dave talked about the generics.
We're also going to benefit later in the year as it relates to the Med D business.
And that's why we for the last couple of years have been saying "Look at operating profit year-over-year growth as a measure of performance." Meredith your first question.
I mean I think I addressed that earlier in terms of as it relates to the economic climate we don't see it changing materially from where we sit today.
And I think that's really the only comment we have on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess I would like to just ask a little bit about just kind of a simple question I think about the retention of the former Walgreens customers.
Obviously with the Department of Defense not bringing Walgreens back into the network there was naturally going to be an increment to you.
But it sounds like the 60% retention is better.
Can you maybe talk about how much Department of Defense would have benefited you? And then -- which I guess would lead us to believe that you're just generally doing better.
Meredith this is Dave.
Maybe I'll address that real quickly.
I mean clearly there's some clients within the Express' book has continued to go forward on I'll say a smaller network that might not include Walgreens and Department of Defense TRICARE was one such client.
Having said that we knew there were some portions of that book that would occur as we cycled into Q4.
I would just say that at the end of the day when we look at our retention performance we're doing better than we thought.
We're actively engaging those customers on a day-in and day-out basis.
And we think that our outlook's positive here.
And I can't give you a specific around TRICARE what it would or would not have been depending upon their choice.
Our next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
I think first on Part D.
I was wondering how you sort of view that business as a retailer.
Specifically there seems to be more traction at least some newer plans that have preferred networks.
I know you're in some you're not in all.
So can you tell us a little bit more about the strategy on that front? And then second Larry I know there's been some headlines out west in particular on sort of your auto refill program and maybe some other retailers.
And I wasn't sure if you wanted the opportunity to at least give your two cents on that.
Yes 2 good questions.
I'll take the Med D one first.
I think as we all know preferred relationships under Med D are not new.
And keep in mind that different than a restricted or a narrow network the customer can still choose the pharmacy with a co-pay differential in place.
And there are plans out there with CVS as a preferred provider or a SilverScript plan the Aetna CVS/pharmacy offering along with a number of other options.
And there are plans where we're not in a preferred position.
We believe that over time we are well positioned in the Med D space to gain market share.
Tom in terms of your second question about some of the articles in the L.A.
Times we do not believe that that article accurately characterizes our ReadyFill program or our business practices for that matter.
And our primary concern is to help people on their path to better health.
And if the core of that is a business-wide initiative as we've been talking about this morning that is promoting prescription adherence among patients.
And everybody on this call knows the statistics here that nonadherence to medication is costing our health care system nearly $300 billion a year in unnecessary health care costs.
And our programs are working to help patients take their meds as directed by their physicians.
And we've created several innovative services that do that.
Some as simple as the pharmacists speaking with the patient face-to-face proactive outreach phone calls to support therapy continuation and then ReadyFill which is an opt-in program that helps patients stay on their meds by scheduling their enrolled prescriptions to be filled when due and then notifying patients to pick them up at their convenience.
And this -- we think this is pretty important because there are a number of reasons why people don't take their meds.
Forgetfulness is just one of them.
So these programs are popular with patients.
They align with our clients' goals of increasing adherence and continuing to work to control overall health care costs.
So thanks for the opportunity to add my three cents on that topic.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So my first one is on Maintenance Choice.
Obviously good growth.
Back when you started the program you had some big gains interyear.
And I was wondering if 2013 we could see that.
The second part of the Maintenance Choice question is you don't have full coverage in Retail.
Is that something you would desire to continue to grow that program? So that's question one.
My second question it goes to the PBM.
I guess and not to be -- because it's such a great quarter so it's hard to even point out anything negative here.
But it seems like the growth in new accounts for '13 maybe was a little bit under what we thought given the competitive environment.
I'm wondering if we could have some comments on what maybe the hangups were so far at least with the data you've given us on the PBM selling season.
Yes Scott I'll address '13 and then we'll come back to the Maintenance Choice question.
I mean I think as I've mentioned and Jon mentioned earlier we'll provide a detailed review of '13 selling season.
As we mentioned the numbers have not changed materially from our last update.
And keep in mind that earlier in the year everyone was talking about this was going to be a banner year for RFPs because of disruption in the marketplace and so on and so on.
And that really never materialized as it was perhaps being talked about earlier in the year.
We saw RFPs up 7% year-over-year.
I think it was a pretty normal year from that regard.
And Scott this is Dave.
As it relates to Maintenance Choice maybe I'll say the uptake of Maintenance Choice throughout 2013 we are constantly in front of our existing client base in identifying ways in which they can improve their performance either control cost or improve adherence.
Maintenance Choice is one such program that allows them to do that.
And so it will clearly depend upon one which clients have new programs in place that start mid-year; and two the receptivity to those innovative programs.
So probably more to come on that Scott.
We'll keep you updated as time progresses through 2013.
And then Scott this is Jon.
Let me address the question of fill-ins.
Obviously our clients would like CVS retail stores in every state.
We've got great coverage.
And they ask us about our growth plans and we talk about where we plan to add stores.
But that has not been an obstacle to them adopting Maintenance Choice.
And I think that's reflected on what we've seen because if you don't have a CVS retail store they can go to mail.
And that's more of a priority to get the savings on a lower-cost channel as opposed to the few areas where we don't have CVS retail stores so really hasn't been an issue for us.
And our final question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Let me say first I'm glad to hear that you're not expecting any in-group member attrition in your PBM for 2013.
But separately you've also discussed in the past that the EPS contribution from new generics for the PBM could be even greater in 2013 than what it is in 2012 just given the calendar timing of launches.
And I'm just curious if that's still seen to be somewhat likely for '13 the way you see things currently.
Yes this is Dave.
I mean our outlook for generics has not materially changed given that we kind of last year gave a progression or an outlook of what we thought was going to happen from a generic break-open perspective over the next several years.
I'll encourage you to go back and look at the slide at Analyst Day last year within my presentation that talks about the amount of new generics that are coming to the market as well as the amount of -- cumulative amount of break-open generics that are available both now and into the next several years.
And our outlook to those is still consistent with those expectations.
And we'll give a little bit more clarity to that as we cycle into 2013 and the guidance that we'll provide for both the consolidated enterprise but also the PBM and Retail businesses.
So I just want to thank everybody for joining us this morning.
And we look forward to hopefully seeing all of you on December 13.
And as Nancy mentioned we've got I think a great agenda to include providing our guidance for 2013.
So we'll see you then.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CVS Caremark fourth quarter earnings call.
During the presentation participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday February 06 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead maam.
Thanks (Suzzy).
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Im here with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will review our financials.
John Roberts President of Caremark and Mark Cosby President of CVS Pharmacy are also with us today and will participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to one or two questions so we can provide more analysts and investors the chance to ask their questions.
Please note that we posted slide presentation on our website this morning and it summarizes the information on this call as well as key facts and figures around our operating performance and guidance so I recommend that you take a look at that.
Additionally note that we plan to file our annual report on Form 10-K later this month and it will be available through our website at that time.
During this call well discuss some non-GAAP financial measures in talking about our companys performance mainly free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of the non-GAAP items I mentioned as well as the reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for 1 year.<br><br>Now before we begin our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation we'll make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Obviously were very pleased with the strong results we posted in the fourth quarter and full year 2012 with solid performance across the enterprise.<br><br>If you exclude the one-time cost of $0.17 per share related to the early extinguishment of debt adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter and full year were $1.14 and $3.43 respectively demonstrating very healthy underlying growth of 28% for the quarter 23% for the year.<br><br>Now youll recall that in December we retired some long term debt replacing it with debt at lower interest rates and that refinancing and the associated one-time cost was not included in our guidance.
So our fourth quarter results reflect strong performances at the high end of our expectations in both the retail and PBM segments.<br><br>In addition below the line benefits from a lower effective tax rate and fewer shares than expected drove the outperformance with the quarter exceeding the high end of our guidance by $0.03 per share.
We also generated $1.1 billion in free cash flow in the quarter bringing the 2012 total to $5.2 billion which also exceeded our goal for the year.
<br><br>Now in addition to posting better-than-expected 2012 results this morning were raising our guidance for 2013 taking into account the anticipated accretion from the debt refinancing.
We now expect to achieve adjusted earnings per share for 13 in the range of $3.86 to $4.00 and thats up $0.02 from our previous range of $3.84 to $3.98.
And Dave will provide the details of our guidance during his financial review.<br><br>So with that let me provide a brief business update and Ill start with our PBM.
Since our analyst day in mid-December there has been no material change in the 2013 selling season.
And with nearly 85% of our client renewals completed to date our retention rate stands at 96%.<br><br>Now on analyst day we reported net new business wins for 13 of about $400 million and while we have had some additional wins since the analyst day we expect the impact of the recent CMS sanction which Ill speak about shortly to basically offset those recent wins.
So again our net new business for 13 stands at about $400 million.<br><br>Now its obviously very early in the 2014 selling season but efforts are well-underway and our differentiated offerings continue to gain attention in the marketplace.
Client interest in our unique Maintenance Choice offerings continues to be robust and we now have about 15.8 million lives covered by more than 1 100 plans that have implemented or committed to implement our Maintenance Choice offerings.
And that number is up from 14.5 lives at our last update and looking forward we see the potential to increase the number of lives to an even higher level.<br><br>We are enrolling new lives into both of our Maintenance Choice offerings with some clients opting for the 1.0 offering and others opting for the new 2.0 design.
Most of the lives are coming from plans that previously had voluntary mail plan designs so these clients can now begin to experience the cost savings Maintenance Choice offers.<br><br>Pharmacy Advisor our flagship clinical offering has also made strong advances.
Five new disease states have been successfully implemented as of January 1 including asthma COPD depression osteoporosis and breast cancer.
And as we said on analyst day we expect to have about 900 clients with about 16 million members enrolled in all or some of our available <br>programs and we have seen a very positive response from clients to the newly expanded offerings.
<br><br>We also began offering Pharmacy Advisor to our Medicare clients on January 1 and were excited about future opportunities to support these clients as they strive to improve their star ratings.<br><br>And I think these are two great examples of how were capitalizing on our integrated assets and these programs are helping to lower healthcare costs while improving the health of those we serve.<br><br>Let me talk more about the recent CMS sanction on our Medicare Part D subscription drug plan.
The sanction means that we cannot enroll new individual SilverScript members or market our Silver Script plan to potential individual members until the sanction is lifted.<br><br>However current SilverScript members are not affected by this action including our EGWPs along with the new individual members that enrolled at the beginning of this plan year.
Our clients EGWP plans and their members are also not affected by the sanction.
This sanction relates only to our SilverScript plan and does not affect Medicare Part D plans offered by our health plan clients.<br><br>Now that said let me acknowledge my disappointment in these circumstances.
Our goal is to execute flawlessly across the organization every day and in consolidating the Medicare Part D enrollment systems for SilverScript we did not deliver on that goal.
So were working to resolve these issues as expeditiously as possible.
The sanction should be lifted when CMS is satisfied that the issues are fixed and not likely to recur.
Now let me assure you that we are highly focused on working with CMS to bring these issues to resolution as soon as possible.<br><br>So with that Ill turn to three important PBM growth drivers: the fast-growing specialty pharmacy business our streamlining initiative and the Aetna relationship.
Now the specialty pharmacy business continued on pace with revenues increasing more than 31% versus the same quarter of last year.
And this specialty growth was driven by new PBM clients new product launches along with drug price inflation.<br><br>And given that specialty costs are growing rapidly our clients are looking for help to better manage this trend.
And our specialty guideline management program continues to garner a great deal of interest with some significant new clients adopting the program late last year.<br><br>Were also seeing a lot of interest in our specialty medical benefit management program especially among our health plan customers.
And we have multiple pilots underway.
We expect to close and implement several other customers during the 2013 year.
So specialty pharmacy will continue to be a key area of focus for us going forward.<br><br>As for the streamlining initiative we are on track with our efforts to reorganize PBM operations to improve productivity rationalize capacity and consolidate our adjudication platforms to one destination platform with enhanced capabilities.
We now have about two-thirds of our business on the destination platform and we expect to increase that to 85% by the end of this year.<br><br>As for the other transformation activities we anticipate being more than 95% complete by the end of April.
So were on track to deliver significant cost savings from the streamlining efforts and we expect to hit the full run rate of annual savings - that being $225-275 million - beginning in 14.
<br><br>And then as for the Aetna relationship the client systems conversion continues to proceed successfully.
We have further migrations scheduled throughout this year.
And once a clients migration is complete we can then begin to offer our differentiated products and services.
<br><br>We have had a successful selling season as Aetna has added more than 1 million pharmacy lives to their book and we have seen interest within the Aetna client base to implement Maintenance Choice and Pharmacy Advisor and we believe this is further enhanced at this competitive position in the marketplace.<br><br>So were very optimistic as to what lies ahead as we continue to work with the Aetna team to drive cost savings for their clients.<br><br>With that let me turn to our retail business.
We had a very strong quarter with same-store sales increasing 4%.
Pharmacy comps also increased 4% in the quarter with front-store comps increasing 3.9%.
<br><br>New generics had a negative impact of about 1 100 basis points on pharmacy comps and you may recall thats up from about 900 basis points in the third quarter.
Script cost increased 11% on a 30-day supply basis and 9% when counting 90-day supplies as one script.
We had a slight benefit in the quarter from flu-related scripts and flu shots increasing during December.
<br><br>In addition our retention of scripts gained during the Walgreens Express impasse was also a factor.
As expected we retained at least 60% of the scripts gained during the impasse and we estimate the impact added about 340 basis points to our script comp equating to about 5.5 to 6 million scripts.
And we remain confident that we will continue to retain at least 60% of the scripts in 2013.
<br><br>Now as for the front-store business both customer traffic and the average front-store ticket increased notably in the quarter.
Im sure youre not surprised to hear that we saw particular strength in cough and cold allergy and flu-related sales.
Private label sales represented 18.1% of front-store sales in the quarter.
Thats up about 20 basis points year over year.
And we also continued to see solid sales and share growth in the beauty category driven by skincare and cosmetics.<br><br>In addition we estimate that the Walgreens Express impasse positively impacted our front-store comp by about 150 basis points in the quarter.
And as for the Christmas season seasonal sales came in close to but just below our expectations.<br><br>When you look at market share the latest data shows that CVS has gained front-store share versus a year ago.
Our share growth in the drug channel was 226 basis points and against multi-outlet competitors 17 basis points.<br><br>Now let me touch on our ExtraCare program because it continues to be a key differentiator for us with the scale of our program increasing dramatically in 2012 even with competitive activity in the loyalty space.
<br><br>Both front-store and pharmacy transactions with the ExtraCare card increased.
We issued more personalized offers and we saw 19% growth in the number of offers redeemed with many now coming from the ExtraCare coupon centers.<br><br>In addition increased engagement of our ExtraCare members is driving meaningful results.
As an example we have doubled our email program to more than 15 million active participants.
They have received over 60 million personalized email offers.
Thats up 69% versus the prior year.
Beauty Club participation grew by 21% to 11 million customers affording targeted promotion and profitable sales growth.
<br><br>And just last week we launched an enhanced ExtraCare program for pharmacy and health rewards.
Now this is an opt-in program and individual enrollment versus household participation allows for more personalized communication.
We can offer members a wider range of rewards for healthy behaviors that can result in improved adherence.
So this program will be a great tool for driving prescription adherence script consolidation and customer retention.<br><br>And while ExtraCare has been in the marketplace for 15 years I think these are examples of how were not sitting still.
These enhanced programs are geared to our higher-value customers and it enables us to focus and tailor our rewards along with enhancing the productivity of our investments.<br><br>With that let me turn to our real estate program.
We opened 45 new or relocated stores.
We closed two resulting in 35 net new stores in the quarter.
And for the year we opened 150 new or relocated stores closed 19 resulting in 131 net new stores with 2.1% retail square footage growth.<br><br>Now before turning to MinuteClinic I want to touch on a recent transaction.
Late last week we closed on the acquisition of Drogaria Onofre a privately held retail drugstore chain in Sao Paolo Brazil with 44 stores.
This transaction is not financially material to our company.
However it is our first foray into the international drugstore space and we wanted to provide a little color this morning.<br><br>As you know we have been exploring opportunities for possible international expansion and weve said many times that our approach would be measured and that we would exercise financial discipline.
We believe this acquisition is a great example of that strategy in action.<br><br>Onofre has a strong reputation in the marketplace.
They do a great job in tailoring their stores to market to different customer segments.
And we view Brazil as an attractive market given that healthcare and pharmacy are expected to grow double digits for the next decade.
And while chains are prevalent it is still a highly fragmented market.
So we see nice opportunities to grow the business over time.
And as weve said we will continue to take a measured approach to our international growth plan.
<br><br>So with that let me turn to MinuteClinic which recorded very strong revenue growth in the quarter.
On a comparable basis sales were up more than 38%.
This was the same quarter last year.
And as we headed into January with a strong flu season our patient visits at MinuteClinic reached unprecedented daily levels.<br><br>In addition to treating [acute visit] patients in the quarter we continued to work on wellness programs along with programs aimed at treating chronic conditions.
For example weve developed a provider education program with the American Heart Association to support our hypertension evaluation visits.
And were also piloting enhanced smoking cessation and weight management programs and the strong growth weve experienced in MinuteClinics non-acute services is helping us to reduce the seasonality of the business.
<br><br>We opened 31 net new clinics in the quarter and we ended 2012 with 640 clinics in 25 states and the District of Columbia.
And as Andy Sussman noted on Analyst Day were ramping up our expansion plans and we expect to open another 150 clinics this year ending 13 with just under 800 clinics.<br><br>MinuteClinic is also expanding its affiliations with many of the nations leading health systems.
And its also increasing its collaboration with our PBM clients.
And through all of these efforts we will help to transform the delivery of primary care in the U.S.
as our healthcare system continues to evolve.
So with that Larry.
Today Ill provide a detailed review of our fourth quarter 2012 results and review our 2013 guidance.
But let me begin with a wrap up of last years capital allocation program and how were using our strong free cash flow to return value to our shareholders.<br><br>In the fourth quarter we finalized the accelerated share repurchase program that we began in September and we also repurchased approximately 7.1 million shares for approximately $329 million in the open market.
So for all of 2012 we repurchased approximately 95 million shares for $4.3 billion averaging $45.58 per share.<br><br>Additionally we paid approximately $202 million in dividends in the fourth quarter alone bringing our total for the year to $829 million.
We finished the year with a payout ratio of 21.3% and our strong earnings outlook this year combined with a 38% increase in the dividend we announced at our analyst day puts us on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 25% by the end of 2013 two years ahead of our schedule.<br><br>So between dividends and share repurchases weve returned more than $5.1 billion to our shareholders just in 2012 and our expectation is that between dividends and share repurchase we will return approximately $5 billion again to our shareholders in 2013.<br><br>We generated $5.2 billion of free cash in 12 and $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter alone up $419 million from the same period of last year.
This was driven by our earnings outperformance as well as improved receivables and payables management and the timing of certain payments.<br><br>Regarding the balance sheet over the course of 2012 we continued to make great strides in improving our cash cycle especially within the retail segment.
Inventory days within retail improved by more than 3.5 days in 2012 and we reduced our retail cash cycle by more than 5 days throughout the year.
<br><br>The retail team was able to reduce inventories by approximately $450 million through process improvements and while just short of our $500 million goal we remain committed to further inventory reductions as we move forward.
<br><br>In the fourth quarter gross capital expenditures of $716 million were offset by a $102 million of sale leaseback activity.
For the year our net capital expenditures were $1.5 billion which included $2 billion of gross capex offset by $529 million in sale leaseback proceeds.<br><br>As for the income statement adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations came in at $1.14 per share approximately $0.03 above the high end of our guidance after you adjust for the impact of the debt refinancing.
<br><br>GAAP diluted EPS was $0.90 per share and as Larry said the EPS beat was driven primarily by better than expected below the line performance.
But both the PBM and retail segments performed at or above the high end of expectations as well.<br><br>So let me quickly walk down the P&amp;L statement.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the fourth quarter increased 10.9% to $31.4 billion.
Within the segments net revenues increased 17.4% in the PBM to $18.6 billion.
<br><br>The significant number of new client starts in 2012 drove substantial growth over last year while Medicare Part D was also a key growth driver.
Acquisitions such as Universal American and Health Net as well as organic member growth are responsible for volume increases in Medicare Part D.
<br><br>And we continue to see some drug price inflation particularly in our specialty business which helped to grow revenues over last year.
These positive revenue drivers were partially offset by the growth in the PBMs generic dispensing rate which increased 500 basis points versus the same quarter of last year to 80%.
In our retail business revenues increased 5.1% in the quarter to $16.3 billion driven primarily by strong same-store sales growth.
<br><br>Turning to gross margin we reported 20.1% for the consolidated company in the quarter an increase of approximately 45 basis points compared to Q4 of 11.
Within the PBM segment gross margin increased by 75 basis points versus Q4 of 11 to 7.2% while gross profit dollars increased 16% year over year.<br><br>The increase year over year was primarily driven by the big increase in GDR higher volumes and better acquisition cost economics.
These positive margin drivers were partially offset by client price compression.
<br><br>Gross margin in the retail segment was 31.3% up 155 basis points over last year.
This improvement was again driven primarily by the 400 basis points increase in retail GDR to 79.9%.
Additionally we saw our private label sales as a percentage of front-store volume increase by 20 basis points to 18.1%.<br><br>Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues were essentially flat to Q4 of 11 at 12.7%.
The PBM segments SG&amp;A rate improved approximately 25 basis points to 1.6%.
This was primarily driven by strong revenue growth as well as improvements derived from the streamlining effort.
<br><br>In the retail segment SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales increased by approximately 125 basis points to 21.6% while expenses grew by 11.6%.
As expected this was mainly due to the deleveraging effect of the growth in generics as well as the fact that we are comparing against disproportionately lower spending in Q4 of last year.<br><br>Within the corporate segment expenses were up approximately $30 million to $182 million.
And given all that operating margin for the total enterprise improved 40 basis points to 7.3%.
Operating margin in the PBM improved approximately 100 basis points to 5.6% while operating margin at retail improved by about 35 basis points to 9.7%.<br><br>For the quarter we beat our growth estimates for operating profit in both the retail and PBM segments.
Retail operating profit increased a solid 8.9% exceeding expectations by approximately 90 basis points.
<br><br>PBM operating profit grew a very healthy 42.9% some 185 basis points above our guidance range.
Both segments benefited from the positive impact of generics and the increase in GDRs.
Additionally the PBM also benefited from the increasing profitability as we move through the year in the Medicare Part D as well as the increasing benefits derived from the streamlining effort.<br><br>Now going below the line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter increased approximately $12 million from last year to $159.
Additionally our effective tax rate was 37.1% lower than expected related to a nonrecurring item.
Our weighted average share count was 1.25 billion shares approximately 12 million shares lower than anticipated due to our opportunistic repurchase of additional shares on the open market once the ASR completed.
(Operator Instructions)  Your first question comes from the line of Dane Leone  Macquarie.
When we think about the coming year I know its early to really start speaking about the 2014 PBM selling season Im just curious with where youre gotten into the PBM streamlining initiative along with the additional conversions to the destination platform.
Fundamentally how do you compare going into this year and the capacity for the organization to take on new business versus where you were last year heading into April? We see no barriers and no limitations around that.
Keep in mind that I had mentioned that about two-thirds of our business is already on the destination platform and any new business automatically goes onto that platform so theres no conversion activity associated with that.
The other thing I would add is we have a separate team that is working on the conversion process totally separate than the teams that implement new business and weve implemented $24 billion of net new business over the last three years so we think were very well positioned to continue to add new business and grow as we move forward.
Then one additional question on the Silver Script resolution with CMS.
Could you add any additional color on specific steps that need to be taken or specific timeline when that could be resolved? Yes well as Larry talked about we had to consolidate our enrollment systems from two acquisitions which was Universal American PDP Healthnet and Silver Script on the one system which unfortunately led to issues with Silver Scripts enrollment and claims processing in the January timeframe and an unanticipated increase in call volumes.
So this sanction is focused on Silver Scripts enrollment process.
Our remediation plan was submitted to CMS on January 23<sup>rd</sup> and work is underway to implement the appropriate corrective action.
We have successfully operated these enrollment systems since the inception of Medicare Part D and continue to expect to do so now that the system consolidation is complete and were very focused on working with CMS to correct the issues and to have the sanction lifted as soon as possible and we are confident in our ability to address these issues quickly.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby  Bank of America.
Any change in philosophy on retail store openings in the US?  What are your targets there?  And just comment briefly what if any synergies you expect to derive from Brazil from a cost standpoint.
Yes Rob in terms of  your first question in terms of our retail gross strategy we have no change in our strategy there.
Weve talked the last several years about 2% to 3% square footage growth and our pipeline falls within those boundaries and we continue to see opportunities for retail growth here in the US.
As far as synergies go it will be very minimal.
As I mentioned in my remarks this transaction is not financially materially.
Were talking about 44 stores and I think itll be a great learning opportunity for the organization.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette  UBS.
So you mentioned that you obviously retained at least 60% of the RX from Wallgreens in the fourth quarter.
Obviously thats the guidance for 2013 as well I guess whatever the actual rate is.
I think you mentioned previously you expected it to stick about the same in early 13 as it was exiting 12 and that the rollover of the calendar year wouldnt really change anything or trigger anything to change the run rate.
So Im just curious now without giving any specific numbers is that indeed the case now that you have probably some read on January? Yes Steve.
I think as weve talked about this over the last several months we had talked about the fact that we didnt see this as being a 12 to 18 month event that we believe that we would reach a steady state run rate.
Towards the end of the year I think we had acknowledged that it could trickle into the first quarter of this year and quite frankly our retention is actually performing as we had outlined.
So we dont see any change to the comments that we made in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard  Cleveland Research.
On the retail side of the business the SG&amp;A growth increased or accelerated a little bit in 4Q versus the prior couple quarters.
Im interested if you can give a little bit of color on that and then strategically what youre doing with the drug store with the retail business to sustain good performance and further improve market share in 13 if youre doing anything different for marketing or for merchandising from a promotional perspective.
Really the growth in SG&amp;A in retail for Q4 was driven by our comparisons in Q4 of LY so if you look at Q4 of 11 the growth of SG&amp;A was very modest.
Were bumping up against some tough comparisons so we knew that was going to be case as we cycled into Q4 of 12.
And so it performed as we expected so nothing really new there.
And with that maybe Ill turn it to Mark to talk a bit about the retail business.
Well the biggest headline that we talked about in the analyst day was around personalization and that was really the headline for the quarter and its really the headline as we go into 13.
So our whole goal is to move away from the mass approach and to customize our approach to each individual customer.
Were doing that through how we are clustering our stores which means personalizing the assortment within each store.
That was played out to our urban initiative over the last couple years.
We have a number of initiatives coming up in 2013 to take that to a new level which we talked about a little bit at the analyst day.
The other big play coming out of personalization is obviously through our extra care program.
As Larry outlined in his comments that has been a strength for us for many years 15 years and we have a very engaged customer set as evidenced by the 68% of our transactions and 85% of our sales going through the program.
We ramped that up in a big way in the fourth quarter and were taking that into 2013.
Larry through out a couple of numbers earlier and I think theyre indicative of that improved engagement first the fact that we increased the number of offers redeemed by 19% over the course of the quarter.
That also led  was driven by a big increase in the number of offers that came through from our email program.
Weve more than doubled that program to $15 million and increased the number of offers that went through our email program at 69% to over 600 million offerings.
We also had some advancements on the (BD) club front which were all about a year ago that that dramatically improved with some new features that we rolled out.
We increased that by 21% to $11 million.
And as Larry mentioned in his comments significant amount of work going through our differentiated extra care center where were able to deliver customized personalized messages to our customers and that will play out as we go into 13 with an initiative that we call conversion which allows our customers to shop broadly across the store.
Just most recently you probably read a little bit.
We just introduced this pharmacy in healthy rewards program which we had in place.
Just a little fact weve had a reward in place for our pharmacy customers for the last several years as part of our extra care program where we had $1 for every two prescriptions.
But this most recent program is really different in the fact that it customizes the message to individuals as opposed to households.
We came up with this program over a year ago.
It was tested in five markets and just launched this past week.
The big difference as I mentioned its tied to individuals not to households.
We can then trigger the messages directly to customers and customize the message as such.
We have also slightly modified the program.
Ten prescriptions equals five extra (bucks) and we have many different ways for our customers to earn those extra bucks just beyond (awards) themselves.
The big advantages for our customers is more value communicated directly to them.
We also believe it will help their adherence.
Its also a great way for us to communicate and retain our most important pharmacy heavy user customers.
So extra care the answer to your question would be personalization through our conversion program through our clustering programs as well as through our taking extra care to a new level.
Then if I could just follow up the retail comp in 4Q was quite solid.
What youve talked about for 13 would be a moderation from that.
Could you just square those two facts? Well keep in mind as you cycle into 13 youve got a couple things happening.
First and foremost you have continued generic (NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GER" title="Goldman Sachs MLP and Energy Renaissance Fund">GER</a>) expansion number one.
And number two is youre comping against some share gains high share gains as we move into 2013 versus what we gained in 2012.
And then finally you have one less day in 13 than you have in 12 due to leap year.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Fassler  Goldman Sachs.
First of all just following up on the changes to extra care as related to the inclusion or the change in the inclusion of prescriptions.
Can you talk about what the break even is or some sense thereof for the share gains you need to generate because presumably some of the extra care bucks that are going to be rewarded are for customers that youre already doing business with? So what kind of share gain would you expect you need to generate for this to start to deliver the kind of financial outcome youre looking for? Yes Matt I think if you go back to some of the comments that I had made in my prepared remarks and combine that with what Mark just talked about through this effort of personalization were able to get more granular in terms of where do we make the investments on a customer-by-customer basis.
And so quite frankly the break even point is very very low.
And its  you can think of it as reallocating the investment to where its going to matter the most.
So it makes the investment very productive from a profitability point of view.
And then secondly a modeling question as we think about the impact of intersegment eliminations on EBIT that was a number that increased quite sharply over the course of 2012.
How should we think about  you gave us pretty firm guidance on the revenue impact for 2013.
How should we think directionally about the impact on (technical difficulty) income for 2013? Clearly the (InterSoft) company eliminations are being driven by the successful maintenance choice program so the more adoption of that program drives additional eliminations for the company.
Secondly is the growth in the elimination is also driven strongly by the generic penetration in 2012.
As you know Lipitor is a very large maintenance drug and that drug was used extensively within the mail order centers so therefore its a drug thats used heavily within the maintenance choice product.
And so that disproportionately drove the eliminations in 12.
I would not expect to see the same type of growth as you cycle into 13.
But I think you take our what we said from a guidance perspective and walk your way back you can come up with an estimate of what the intercompany segment elimination might be.
But you would expect EBIT  because this year youve had the EBIT impact more than double.
The revenue (half) was 19%.
Youd expect those two numbers to be closer in sync directionally?  And of course well go back and do the math this period.
Yes thats right.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Hessler  Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
As I look at the balance sheet leverage at year-end was just below 2.5 times which is below your 2.7 times target.
And then based on 2013 guidance this number should continue to come down next year as well.
So my question is has anything changed from a financial policy or capital allocation standpoint? No it has not.
I think weve been very clear from a capital allocation standpoint of how were going to use our free cash flow.
One to drive value for our shareholders in really three ways: one investing in our business with the appropriate return on invested capital targets and hurdles; two increasing our dividends; and three doing share repurchases that are value-enhancing.
And weve said were going to do that in the context of maintaining an adjusted debt to EBITDA capital structure of 2.7 times.
And while thats our target we know at times we fluctuate higher or lower to that.
Well stay within that range.
And it would be our expectation that we would continue to focus to have our balance sheet and our capital structure within those tolerance levels as we go forward.
Just in terms of the rating are you guys  are you still committed to the high BBB credit rating as well in conjunction with those goals? Very much so.
We think its important for us to maintain our high BBB rating both as we think about financing the company long term but also from a short-term basis.
We access the commercial paper market typically on a daily basis and thats a very efficient means for us to finance the companys working capital and I think having a BBB rating is important for that.
And also we think about sell leaseback activities.
I think BBB is also important for that function as well.
So were very much committed to that and certainly its our target.
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill  JPMorgan.
Larry I know you said its early talk about the 2014 selling season but can either you or John maybe just one size what you have up for renewal and two maybe just characterize that the 2014 selling season would you call it a normal season? And the discussions that youre having obviously reform is coming in 2014.
We have exchanges coming in 2014.
What are your current clients thinking around both reform and exchanges as you start to think about 2014? As it relates to the 14 selling season the amount of business that we have up for renewal is similar to prior years within about $11 billion to $12 billion up for renewal.
And as weve all acknowledged it is early.
Ill let John touch on what his sense of the market is and what hes hearing from clients around the exchanges and how theyre thinking about their employee base.
Yes so Lisa when I  and I have to separate my response in two segments.
When I talk to employers and how theyre thinking about the exchanges I think most of them are in a wait and see attitude particularly the large employers which we deal with.
So I dont  I think theyre going to wait and see how these public exchanges shake out.
The private exchanges are seeing some activity primarily in the retiree space.
When we talk to our health plan clients theyre obviously gearing up to participate in the exchanges so theyre interested in our assistance around formulary.
They like our CVS retail stores and the ability to the market there their brand to consumers and that all of our differentiated offerings that we have  maintenance choice pharmacy advisory the ability to do preferred or even restricted networks.
So a lot more discussion around health plans as they gear up to compete in the space and thats where youre going to see most of the growth is with  Do you think competitively John does that help you to win health plan business and do you see any large pieces of health plan business that are up for renewal for others in 2014 that you say that this is something Im going to target because we think we have something differentiated that we can go to them as theyre building out their exchanges? Were seeing a lot of interest from health plans where were the (NYSEMKT:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PBM" title="Pacific Booker Minerals Inc">PBM</a>) but were also seeing interest from health plans where were not the (<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PBM" title="Pacific Booker Minerals Inc">PBM</a>) because of all of our assets.
A little early to talk about what were seeing from specific health plans coming to the marketplace and looking for bids.
There may be some activity where health plans have a particular (<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/PBM" title="Pacific Booker Minerals Inc">PBM</a>) but maybe looking for different partners as they evolve their exchange strategy.
So you could see some activity there.
And then I just had an accounting question Dave.
If I look at the potential impact for Medicare MLR regulation to the PVP in 2014 how will that impact your PVP business? Quite frankly its probably a little early to be able to answer that.
Some of the regulations arent quite solid yet.
I would say that at the end of the day were watching closely and well update as we see that regulation evolve at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of John Ransom  Raymond James.
Dave as you think about your 2013 PBM margin comparisons to 2012 whats the impact on say the ramp of the (AETNA) contract versus say the streamlining efforts?  How should we think about that? Thats a tough question.
I think in general listen we know that both from an (AETNA) perspective and from streamlining perspective were very focused on enhancing our performance in both those areas as we think over time.
Certainly from a streamlining effort we continue to make nice progress on improving the SG&amp;A structure of the organization and aligning from a service perspective the metrics that organizations deliver day in and day out on the service commitment that we have.
Also I guess from an (AETNA) perspective (AETNA) cycles into 13.
They are a net share gainer and adding additional (lives) which will drive additional economics for us.
So at the end of the day as they are successful in a marketplace working with us that is really the opportunity that we have to broaden our partnership and drive value for them and for us and for the customers that they serve.
Maybe another way of asking about it I remember you provided some initial accretion targets when you signed that big contract.
Are those still in the ballpark?  Are they better?  Are they worse? Those are stale.
We said quite some time ago that those were stale in that there was a lot of moving parts back then.
So those are not good numbers at this point.
We are very focused and very pleased with our relationship with (AETNA) and how its progressing but you cant look at that.
Then the other question just looking at your front end on the retail side pretty big delta between your large public customers.
Whats the impact do you think of getting 24 million scripts from (NYSE:<a href="http://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ESI" title="ITT Educational Services Inc.">ESI</a>)?  Do you think theres been some bleed over from those customers and will some of that weigh in this year?  Or do you think its disconnected to that? Well John we acknowledged that earlier that in the fourth quarter we believe it positively impacted the front end cost by about 150 basis points and that was consistent with what we had seen in prior quarters as well.
Your next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel  Guggenheim.
So guys a couple things on maintenance choice of the 15.8 million lives how does that break down between one and two?  And I know two is new so is two less than 10% of that? Yes John were not going to break that out going forward.
Well continue to report on how we continue to grow the maintenance choice population but were not going to delineate between 1.0 and 2.0.
Well do you think 2.0 at least near term does that generate the bulk of the growth in maintenance choice or no? Well John I think as we have outlined I think at the analyst meeting a year ago we saw 2.0 as being a key factor in our ability at the time to triple the number of lives that would be appropriate for a maintenance choice type program.
And I think over the past year we have seen our lives grow by about 5 million from 11 to 12 and now were sitting here saying that we still believe we can double the number of lives that we have.
And its going to be a combination of the various designs that we have out there.
If somebody signs up for 2.0 how quickly do you think they migrate to 1.0?  They dont have to wait for the next contract.
Yes they can migrate to 1.0 really at any time and weve seen some of that activity and we think that as people get experience with maintenance choice 2.0 they actually have an opportunity to deliver or to generate more savings by moving up to 1.0 as they move more of their maintenance volume into the maintenance choice channel.
So we think 2.0 is a good entre point for where we are particularly with health plans where weve had pretty low penetration of maintenance choice.
They traditionally have liked open access.
We think this really will play well with the health plans.
And then lastly John given that there are now very distinct models out there in the PBM side and two of your bigger competitors are still sort of involved in integrations are you more optimistic about 14 selling season than you might have been a year ago or no thats reading too much into it? Yes listen its  were focused on obviously ensuring when were going to the marketplace were talking about our differentiated offerings.
We think theyre resonating in the market.
You look at our success over the last three years 24 billion in net new business.
But it still remains a very competitive market and were seeing pricing is  continues to be very competitive no real change over the least few years but still rational.
So well see how it goes.
Your next question comes from the line of Edward Kelley  Credit Suisse.
Larry I just wanted to confirm one thing and then ask you my real question.
But on the express scripts lost customers has the pace of the customer loss diminished over the last couple of months or has it been steady?  Im just trying to clarify (technical difficulty).
Yes I think as I had acknowledged earlier it has  the migration that we have seen has been pretty much in line with what weve expected.
And you see more attrition in markets where we dont have the concentration of stores where  which we were talking about that six months ago that would likely be the case when an agreement was reached.
So were seeing those dynamics and as I mentioned its pretty much on target with how weve thought about it and modeled it.
And then my question for you is really related to Brazil.
I know its small and I certainly appreciate the measured approach to international but its a big opportunity I guess.
So can you walk us through why you chose this country over others for your first initiative overseas how this market is different than the US?  And if youre successful here how do you grow?  Is this an organic opportunity?  Is it further M&amp;A? Yes as I had acknowledged earlier that its a maturing marketplace it has  its expected to have continued strong growth for the foreseeable future.
As people move up the economic ladder theyre spending more on healthcare as well as education and with increased access to healthcare and pharmacy both are expected to grow over the next several years.
I think one of the other keys for us is the market is recessive to chain pharmacy.
Chains are pretty prevalent in the Brazil market but at the same time its still fragmented.
I think the largest player has about a 9% share.
So we see the opportunity for growth and (inaudible) has an organic growth plan that we will certainly be looking to execute on and there may be other opportunities acquisition-wise as we move down the road.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Muken  ISI Group.
As you look at where youve been with Wallgreens retention over the last two months or so as you look at the places where youve done better versus worst is it geographically disbursed?  Is there a percentage where if someone signs up for an extra card theyre much more likely to stay in the store?  Im just trying to get a sense for where you feel like youve outperformed and areas where youve ceded maybe more share and what the key drivers of that have been.
Yes Ross I dont  Im probably a little redundant now with these comments.
But I think you hit on some of the key points that as we talked about a year ago the acquisition strategy was developed with a retention component.
So we work very hard to et those maintenance users enrolled in extra care and I think if you reflect on some of Marks comments earlier the ability to communicate with them in a very personalized way is a key element around retention.
And then as I just mentioned a minute ago we certainly recognize the convenience and locale also becomes part of that retention strategy.
So I dont know that there is anything out of the ordinary that I could add to your question.
And maybe just quickly a modeling question on the pharma services business.
As you look at the first quarter guidance implies a bit more deflation versus the rest of the year.
Whats driving the step up of where were given the script guidance of where were going from a more significant decline to an increase by the end of the year? Is there a portion of the year where youre assuming given mix something is changing from deflation to inflation?  Im just trying to get a little more clarity.
Youre cycling through the first couple of months of the introduction of large generics in last year primarily especially (inaudible).
And so thats whats driving that inflation/deflation cadence if you will.
So Ross keep in mind that to Daves point on Lipitor we cycle that in June 1<sup>st</sup> so the first almost two quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler  Barclays Capital.
I want to go back to just questions about maintenance choice 2.0.
Its probably very early but Im just wondering what kind of feedback  because it is something really unique for these patients.
Is there any feedback coming so far about how theyre responding to it or is it really just too early? Yes Meredith so maintenance choice from a member perspective maintenance choice 2.0 will perform the same way as our original maintenance choice product maintenance choice 1.0.
So the member has a choice to either go to CVS retail or to go to mail to get a reduced co-pay.
They get a 90-day maintenance script.
The client gets mail pricing.
And so we see about half the members like to go to CVS retail for their maintenance choice prescriptions and the other half like to go to mail.
And if you look at the penetration for these voluntary mail customers that move in the maintenance choice we see its on average around 15%.
And so as we get this new benefit we think that that penetration will grow beyond 15% so that will generate more savings for the client and offer a benefit to the members at no charge actually a savings for the client.
The other thing were working on is continuing to improve the member experience with 2.0 so the move between mail and CVS retail can be more seamless.
Its more of a binary choice now.
We see people go to either retail or mail and stay and were going to evolve our ability to allow them to move much more seamlessly.
People are moving around the country much more now than they used to.
So very positive response members love it and clients love it and its a win-win-win for everybody.
And then I have a question about specialty.
Obviously specialty costs are just going up and up and up and I think there has been more effort by health plans and payers generally to push more costs onto patients.
Are you  what are you hearing from your customers about that and do you think that will have any kind of impact on the growth of specialty? Well if you look at specialty trends both on the pharmacy side and the medical side its growing at 20%.
If you look at the pipeline its dominated by specialty.
And if you look at eight of the top 10 drugs by 2016 its going to be specialty.
So as we move out of this big generic wave which is deliver tremendous savings and you combine that with a specialty trend in the double digits that I described specialty is becoming the highest priority for our patients.
PBMs have traditionally managed specialty on the pharmacy side.
Weve expanded our capabilities to manage it on the medical side where really half of the specialty spend is.
And were really going to focus on really three areas to manage costs for the members utilization unit cost and drug mix.
So our clients want us to manage trend.
They want appropriate utilization but I think youre going to continue to see significant growth in specialties as we move forward and were expanding the piece of the pie that were managing for our clients as we move into managing the medical side.
Meredith we talked a little bit about some of the initiatives that we have underway there and some of them are in pilot as we speak.
I think that were all very excited about the ability for these pilot programs to bring some meaningful solutions to what clients are worried about.
And were certainly talk about that as we move forward throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallucci  Lazard Capital.
My first one is a lot of attention lately on the PDP area within Medicare drug benefit and some of the plans that have preferred retail design.
I know youre in some of those I guess mostly yourself and (AETNA) your plan and (AETNA)s and some of the others are in more of the plans out there.
Can you talk about your thoughts around preferred retail networks I guess both within Medicare and within the private sector and some of your strategy there over and above maintenance choice obviously? Yes Tom I think its probably important just to level set a little bit in terms of start with the difference between preferred and narrow/restricted networks and I think its  because everybody knows the narrow  in a narrow/restricted network there are pharmacies that are excluded.
In the preferred network all pharmacies can participate.
But the customer is incentivized to use one pharmacy over another in the form of a reduced co-pay.
And then when you start peeling back the onion all preferred networks are not equal from a co-pay differential.
If you look in the (Med D) space it could vary anywhere from $1 to $10.
And within the (Med D) population there are no restricted networks.
There are only preferred networks.
So as you mentioned there are plans where were identified as a preferred pharmacy and then there are plans where were not.
Its clear that there is going to be some movement between pharmacies.
I think its pretty early to measure the specific impact but were not seeing anything at this point that we didnt expect too see.
And I think from a retail point of view we are well positioned to be a participant more often than not and well go from there.
The other question I had I think is a minor one but I guess news today the postal service sounds like its finally going to stop delivering on Saturdays.
Can you just talk about any impact or how you think about that from a mail order standpoint? Yes Tom I saw that as well.
So we see a small percentage of our mailings deliver on Saturday so obviously for those deliveries theyre not going to have them.
Theyre going to be pushed to Monday.
I will say that anything that does require Saturday delivery for a member we have other ways of making that delivery happen.
We do that today and will continue to do that.
So net-net I think its a small impact overall maybe an extra day for members but generally mail members arent waiting until the last day to get their mail prescriptions and I think the cost impact is negligible.
Your next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser  Morgan Stanley.
I had a follow-up on the specialty question.
I know you mentioned that you are moving into managing the medical side.
Can you share with us whats driving this?  Is it your clients that are asking you to expand what youre doing with them or is it coming from the health plans that are reaching out to you and asking for your help given (inaudible) like your expertise? So were actually hearing from both health plans and employer clients and what they see is particularly on the medical side specialty spend just isnt being managed.
So theres an opportunity to leverage our capabilities to help manage what I talked about earlier which is utilization unit cost and drug mix.
So significant interest and were moving rapidly to expand and help our clients in these areas.
Then one additional question your distribution contract is up for renewal this year.
Any thoughts on when you expect to make a decision on that? Ricky I think as we mentioned in the past as a matter of policy we wont comment on individual contracts and I think its widely known we have relationships with both Cardinal and (Maketsson) and just say that both of those organizations do a terrific job in servicing the CVS Caremark business.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig  Citigroup.
So you talked a lot today about extra care and a lot of work youve done on the card and can you refresh your capital allocation priorities coming off of such a strong quarter and how should we think about your investments in tech whether in retail or the PBM side especially in light of the increase within personalization? I guess from a capital allocation perspective I can assure you that we have adequate capital to invest in the digital and extra care space as needed to drive value for our company for our shareholders.
And weve laid out I think a fairly clear roadmap over the next several years of how were going to enhance all of those performances associated with those products and services and ways in which we engage members and customers more fully.
And we will continue to push in this area.
I think its an area that we see opportunities over time to drive a lot of value.
And Deb Id just add that that technology roadmap is very much aligned to the strategic growth framework that we laid out on analyst day and in terms of the support that those initiatives would require.
And then how are you capitalizing on the customers who came into visit Minute Clinic and then also the impression in number of daily levels of flu shots that are ministered in terms of new patients and how might you get them to the more regular customers? Yes I think Deb its consistent with things that weve talked about in the past.
I dont know if weve looked at this lately but we knew that a large percent of Minute Clinic patient visits had not had a prescription filled out of CVS.
That could be based on need or demand but certainly there is nothing more convenient than being seen by a nurse practitioner and then getting the script filled while youre there.
And then we have the opportunities to engage that patient at the point of care in terms of getting them enrolled in the programs.
And I think our refill teams do a pretty good job in terms of identifying those new patients and letting them know the advantages that CVS has to offer.
Listen everyone thanks for your time this morning and thanks for your continued interest in our company.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CVS Caremark first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Wednesday May 1 2013.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead maam.
Thanks Suzy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Im here with our President and CEO Larry Merlo who will provide an update on the business.
After Larry our Executive Vice President and CFO Dave Denton will review our financials and guidance.
John Roberts President of PBM and Mark Cosby President of our retail business are also with us today and will participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than two questions so we can provide more callers with the chance to ask their questions.
Just before this call we posted a slide presentation on our website that summarizes the information you will hear today as well as key facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
I encourage you to take a look at that.
Additionally we plan to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q by the close of business today and it will be available through our website at that time.
During this call well use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our companys performance mainly free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation we'll make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our upcoming quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Let me begin by saying that we are very pleased with the strong first quarter results.
As expected the influx of new generic drugs was a key driver of our year-over-year profit growth across the enterprise.
And that said both our retail and PBM segments delivered operating profit growth well above our expectations for the quarter.
And this out performance was driven by stronger than expected script volumes due in large part to the strong flu season strong specialty growth and favorable purchasing and rebate economics.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter came in $0.83 that $0.03 above the high end of our guidance.
And we also generated $1.3 billion in free cash flow and we remained committed to our disciplined approach to capital allocation continuing to focus on returning significant value to your shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
Now given our strong results in the first quarter and the fact that it is still very early in the year we are narrowing our guidance range for 2013 by raising the low-end of the range $0.03.
And Dave will provide the details of our guidance during his financial review.
But please note that this guidance takes into account the expected impact on our Medicare Part D business from sequestration.
And it also includes costs in our Med D business associated with resolving issues that arose following plan consolidation at the beginning of the year.
We now expect to achieve adjusted EPS for '13 in the range of $3.89 to $4.
And with these first quarter results the year is off to a great start.
So with that let me provide a business update and I will start with the PBM.
As it relates to the 2014 selling season it's still too early to provide a specific update at this time.
From what we have seen to date pricing remains competitive yet rational and we continue to be confident that we are in a great position in the marketplace with our unique products and services.
Our client interest in our Maintenance Choice offerings continues to increase.
We now have about 16.3 million lives covered by more than 1200 plans that have implemented or committed to implement our Maintenance Choice offerings and thats up from 15.8 million lives at our last update and up from 10.5 million lives this time a year ago.
Since we have introduced Maintenance Choice 2.0 a majority of this new growth is coming from this new plant option.
And if clients continue to look for ways to manage and control costs Maintenance Choice continues to be an attractive option generating savings of up to 4%.
Our flagship clinical program Pharmacy Advisor is succeeding and moving a significant portion of PBM members to optimal levels of medication adherence and a recent study showed that about half of members who were non-adherent before participating in Pharmacy Advisor actually became adherent within a year of being in the program.
In addition there was a 5.8% decrease in the prevalence of gaps in care for diabetics and we know that improving adherence to prescription regiments can lead to significant savings and better health.
And a recent CBO report late last year estimated that a 1% increase in the number of prescriptions filled by Medicare beneficiaries would lead to a 20 basis point reduction in overall healthcare costs.
And in 2012 we saved clients more than $643 million in their overall healthcare spend as a result of improved medication adherence for chronic conditions and our Maintenance Choice and Pharmacy Advisor programs contributed to these improved adherence rates and cost savings.
Now with all the change on the horizon what are we hearing from our clients? Well we just completed our recent client advisory forum a few weeks ago.
We had an opportunity to spend time with about 800 clients.
Obviously theyre very focused on the implementation and administration of the changes resulting from the Affordable Care Act while continuing to look for innovative ways to both lower costs and improve outcomes.
And with our integrated breadth of assets across retail pharmacy where we interact with 5 million customers a day our PBM as well as our medic clinics we can engage with patients through our unique clinical programs to help drive better outcomes.
And we are very well aligned with the goals of health reform and well positioned to be an important part of the solution.
Our clients are also looking for help in effectively managing the rapidly growing costs in specialty pharmacy.
As weve talked many times weve projected that spending on specialty drugs will grow 20% annually double from 2010 to 2016 to more than $120 billion.
And through a combination of technology process clinical programs we are able to provide a variety of solutions to help our clients effectively manage their specialty spend while continuing to ensure access for these medications for the patients who need them the most.
As an example our new specialty medical benefit program aimed to apply effective drug management for that portion of specialty flowing through the medical benefit.
This is an area which has been largely unmanaged in the past due to the lack of transparency and it poses significant challenges to both employers and health plans.
Now we recently acquired a technology platform that helps us identify and capture cost savings opportunities for specialty drugs build onto the medical benefits and our focused specialty cost management will apply clinical -- accurate drug pricing prior authorization and other targeted recommendations including the most cost effective site of care.
In addition growing competition in pharma across many of the specialty categories represents another key opportunity for us to help manage client spend.
You look at categories such as growth hormone hepatitis C rheumatoid arthritis MS.
We have opportunities to manage formularies and rebates so that our clients benefit.
And Im happy to report that our specialty pharmacy business continued its healthy growth in the quarter with revenues increasing nearly 20% versus the same quarter last year.
And the specialty growth was driven by new PBM clients new product launches along with drug price inflation.
Now weve talked about the CMS sanction on our Medicare part D prescription drug plan during our last earnings call.
We have been working closely with CMS to resolve the issues that arose after plant consolidation at the beginning of the year.
We submitted a plan of action for CMS and we are making great progress against that plan.
Now the sanction means that we cannot enroll new individual SilverScript members or market our SilverScript plan to potential individual members until the sanction is lifted.
And the sanction will be lifted when CMS is satisfied that the issues are fixed not likely to recur and clearly our goal is to have the sanction lifted before the next open enrolment period in the fall.
And again the timing of that decision lies with CMS.
Moving on to our retail business we had another very strong quarter.
Our goal is to retain at least 60% of scripts gained during the impasse between Walgreens and Express Scripts and we are pleased with our results which are exceeding our expectations.
In fact our retention rate has not changed much for the past several months so at this point we believe we have essentially achieved our steady states retention rate.
And we remain very confident that we will continue to repaying at least 60% of the scripts in 2013.
During the quarter total same store sales decreased 1.2% and that was largely due to the significant impact from new generics on the revenue line.
Pharmacy comps decreased 2.3%.
However script comps increased 2% when counting 90-day scripts as one and increased 4.7% when counting 90-day supplies as three scripts.
Our new generics had a negative impact of about 925 basis points on pharmacy comps in the quarter.
And on the flip side we had a notable benefit from a very strong flu season from both flu related scripts and flu shots which positively impacted pharmacy's same store sales in the quarter by about 90 basis points.
As for the front-store business comps increased 1.4%.
The absence of leap day had a negative impact on the front-store comps of about 120 basis points while the timing of Easter had a positive impact of about 65 basis points.
During the quarter front-store traffic was down slightly while the average front store ticket increased notably.
And the latest data shows that CVS has continued to gain front-store market share versus a year ago.
When compared to drug and multi-outlet competitors our front-store share growth in the first quarter was 120 and 10 basis points respectively.
Turning to our real estate program.
We opened 52 new or relocated stores closed nine resulting in 28 net new stores in the quarter.
And this puts on pace to achieve our 2% to 3% square footage growth targets for the year.
MinuteClinic recorded exceptional revenue growth in the quarter.
Sales were up 50% versus the same quarter last year and this was of course bolstered by the very strong flu season that we referenced earlier.
And in addition to treating acute patients in the quarter we continued to develop wellness programs along with programs aimed at monitoring chronic conditions.
And the growth that we have experienced in MinuteClinic's non-acute services is helping to reduce the seasonality of the business.
We opened nine net new clinics in the quarter ending the quarter with 649 clinics in 25 states in the District of Columbia.
And our expansion plans called for the opening of 150 clinics this year and to end 2013 with just under 800 clinics.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
Today I will give a detailed review of our first quarter results then I will provide the guidance for the second quarter and update our full year 2013 outlook.
But before I get to that I want to highlight how we have been enhancing shareholder value through our disciplined capital allocation program.
During the first quarter we paid approximately $277 million in dividends and given our continued strong earnings outlook this year we remain on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 25% by the end of this year two years ahead of our original schedule.
Additionally we have purchased approximately 7.4 million shares for approximately $393 million at an average price of $53.24 per share.
And we still expect to complete $4 billion of share repurchases for the full year 2013.
So between dividends and share repurchases we returned approximately $670 million to our shareholders in the first quarter alone and we continue to expect to return approximately $5 billion for the full year.
We generated approximately $1.3 billion of free cash in the first quarter and we have made excellent progress in reducing our cash cycle.
In fact through the first quarter we have taken nearly two weeks out of our cash cycle over the course of the last nine quarters.
The improvement has been greatest within inventory but all drivers have benefited from our increased commitment to extracting value from our value tree.
We remain committed to further improvements as we look into the future.
Now given the issues we experienced following our Medicare Part D consolidation earlier this year we may have some timing issues with respect to CMS payables and receivables that affect our cash flow delivery for this year.
While we are maintaining our guidance for free cash flow of between $4.8 billion and $5.1 billion this year we are working to offset this headwind to our free cash target and well update you on our progress on future earnings calls.
Now turning to the income statement adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations came in at $.83 per share approximately $0.03 above the high end of our guidance.
GAAP diluted EPS was $0.77 per share and as Larry mentioned the EPS beat was driven primarily by the higher than expected prescription volumes due in large part to the intense flu season strong growth in specialty and favorable rebate in purchasing economics.
These positive drivers were partially offset by some below the line items including higher than expected interest a slightly higher tax rate and more shares outstanding.
These were also partially offset by the impact of the previously announced Medicare Part D sanctions and the measures we have taken to resolve some of the issues we experienced following our Med D plan consolidation on January 1.
Now let me quickly walk you through the results.
On a consolidated basis revenues for the first quarter declined by 0.1% or approximately $35 million to $30.8 billion.
Revenues were essentially flat which compared very favorably to our guidance for revenues to be down 2.5% to 4%.
The increase in revenue in the PBM and retail segments were offset by significant increase in intersegment activity primarily driven by the increased adoption of our Maintenance Choice program.
Within the segments PBM net revenues increased 0.1% or approximately $11 million to $18.3 billion.
This growth was approximately 180 basis points above the high end of our guidance.
The outperformance was driven by higher than anticipated claims volume again primarily from flu and Maintenance Choice.
Specialty pharmacy was also a key revenue driver primarily due to new clients new products and drug cost inflation.
This was mostly offset by the significant impact from new generics.
In fact PBMs generic dispensing rate increased nearly 400 basis points versus the same quarter last year to 80%.
Revenues in the retail business increased 0.2% in the quarter or approximately $27 million to 416.1 billion.
New generic introductions also negatively impacted retail sales with our retail GDR increasing approximately 310 basis points versus the first quarter of 2012 to 81%.
The heavy incidents of flu and greater Maintenance Choice volumes drove the outperformance in retail sales.
Now turning to gross margin we reported 18.1% for the consolidated company in the quarter an increase of approximately 155 basis points compared to Q1 of 12.
Within the PBM segment gross margin increased by approximately 85 basis points versus the same quarter last year to 4.2% while gross profit dollars increased approximately 25% year over year.
This increase year over year was primarily driven by the large increase in GDR higher volumes and better acquisition costs and rebate economics.
These positive margin drivers were partially offset by price compression and costs in our Medicare Part D business associated with the issues that arose following plant consolidation at the beginning of this year.
Gross margin in the retail segment was 30.9% up about 230 basis points over last year.
As with the PBM this improvement was again driven primarily by the increase GDR.
Additionally gross profit dollars increased 8.3% year over year within the retail business.
The improved GDR also had an impact on expense leverage which was optically negative while growth of expense dollars was in fact within normal parameters.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues increased approximately 60 basis points from Q1 of 12 at 12.6% while total SG&amp;A dollars grew by 4.7%.
The PBM segment SG&amp;A rate was flat to LY at 1.5%.
This was primarily driven by benefits and lower cost from the streamlining effort.
Partially offsetting these items were investments in Med D related to our ongoing remediation efforts.
In the retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales increased by approximately 85 basis points to 21.3% while expenses grew by 4.3%.
As expected this too was mainly due to the deleveraging effect of the growth in generics.
Within the corporate segment expenses were up approximately $31 million to $199 million primarily due to increased legal cost.
Now adding it all up operating margin for the total enterprise improved approximately 95 basis points to 5.5%.
Operating margin of the PBM improved approximately 80 basis points to 2.7% while operating margin at retail improved about 150 basis points to 9.6%.
For the quarter we beat our growth estimates for operating profit in both the retail and PBM segments.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 18.5% exceeding expectations by approximately 7 percentage points.
The PBM businesses operating profit was once again very solid growing 42.9% nearly 12 percentage points above our guidance range.
Going below the line of the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter declined approximately $6 million from last year to $126 million in the quarter.
The debt refinancing we did in the fourth quarter was the primary driver of this decrease.
Additionally our effective tax rate was 39.2% which was slightly higher than we expected.
Our weighted average share count was 1.24 billion shares also a little higher than anticipated.
Combined the variance versus our expectations and interest to tax rate and the share count offset the over performance of this segment by about a penny.
Now let me update you on our guidance and I will focus on the highlights and you can find additional details of our guidance in the slide presentation we posted on our website this morning.
As we stated in the press release we have narrowed our EPS ranges to reflect our first quarter performance.
Our revised guidance also reflects the cost in our Medicare Part D business associated with resolving issues that arose following plan consolidation at the beginning of the year as well as the estimated impact on our Medicare Part D business from sequestration.
With respect to sequestration our understanding was that the 2% cut affects the direct subsidy payment received from CMS for plan members including both [OIS] and (inaudible) members.
However the cut only impacts our captive wholly insured PDP business which represents about $3.6 million of our Silver Script Medicare lies.
All things considered we have raised the low end our guidance by $0.03.
We currently expect to deliver adjusted EPS in '13 in the range of $3.89 to $4 a share reflecting excellent year-over-year growth of 13% to 16.5% after removing the impact in 2012 related to the early retirement the extinguishment of debt.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operation is expected to be in the range of $3.54 to $3.75.
We have increased our top line outlook and now expect consolidated net revenue growth of 1.75% to 3%.
This guidance reflects the solid performance across the enterprise year-to-date and the range is 100 basis points higher than our previous guidance due to better volumes as well as specialty inflation.
Guidance for operating profit growth in our retail segment has been raised while we have brought up the low end of the range in the PBM segment.
We now expect retail operating profit to increase 7% to 8.5% year-over-year and PBM operating profit to increase 11% to 14%.
We now expect corporate expenses to be between $745 million and $760 million a bit higher than our previous guidance due to higher legal expenses.
However it is in line as the percentage of consolidated revenue to our prior guidance given the increase in revenue expectations.
We are increasing our expectations for net interest expense for the year by approximately $20 million to account for some capital leases and we now expect between $495 million and $505 million of net interest expense.
We are increasing our weighted average share count forecast slightly to 1.22 billion shares up from 1.21 billion shares.
And as I said previously our free cash flow guidance for the year remains in the range of $4.8 billion to $5.1 billion.
However we are working to manage through some cash flow headwinds largely due to Medicare Part D.
and Im very pleased with our significant cash flow generation capability which should continue to play an important role in driving shareholder value both now and well into the future.
In the second quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.94 to $0.97 reflecting growth of 16.25% to 20.25% versus the same period of last year.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $0.88 to $0.91 in the second quarter.
Within the retail segment we expect revenues to increase 0.75% to 2.25% versus the second quarter of last year.
The revenue increase will be driven by solid volume growth dampened somewhat by the continued growth in generic utilization.
We expect same store sales to be essentially flat with guidance for total same store sales in the range of negative 0.25% to positive 1%.
Script costs are expected to increase in the range of 1.5% to 2.5%.
In the PBM we expect revenue growth of between 0.5% and 1.5% also impacted by volume growth that is dampened somewhat by generics.
Operating profit in the retail segment is expected to grow 7.25% to 9% in the second quarter while operating profit in the PBM segment is expected to grow 26.5% to 32.5%.
So expect another very solid quarter as we look ahead.
And with that Ill turn it back over to Larry Merlo.
Thanks Dave and I think as you just heard it Dave described this was a very solid quarter with strong financial results across the board and again the year is off to a great start.
We continue to be excited by the opportunities to bring meaningful solutions to todays healthcare challenges and we strongly believe we are very well positioned to do so.
And with that why dont we go ahead and open it up for your questions? (Operator Instructions) Our first question coming from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess we can work through the math there.
This is more of a high level question so not to anyone specifically but food for thought.
Weve seen a very tepid employment recovery in the U.S.
Sequestration is posing an additional headwind.
Weve seen the overall unemployment rate hold steady but the labor participation rate has been dropping essentially implying that there would be more individuals on insurance population right now and thats actually increasing.
When you speak about the 50% horizon in MinuteClinic are you seeing a higher amount of uninsured come through clinic thats driving the demand volume there? And I guess maybe any broader color on how you see the cyclical strength in unemployment impacting the business would be great.
Yeah.
As it relates to MinuteClinic actually it's the opposite.
We are seeing a growing number of MinuteClinic visits accompanied by some type of health insurance which I think is really representative of the fact that it becomes a high quality lower cost option for employers for health plans and I remember in the early days we had about 20% of visits that were covered by some type of insurance.
That number is approaching it's not there yet but it's approaching 90%.
In terms of the unemployment I think we continue to see on the retail side a cautious consumer and we continue to look for differentiated ways to bring value to that consumer through our ExtraCare program.
And I think on the PBM side we have projected that utilization would be relatively flat and thats pretty much what we are seeing.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Larry or Dave can you comment just on the renewal process for Caremark's pharmacy agreements with Walgreens.
What's really changed in the dynamics here what do bring new to that table that might afford you some leverage? Well Robert I think while we dont talk about specific contracts okay I think we have continued to work with all of the providers in terms of bringing value to the overall equation in terms of providing access and at the same time insuring that we are working on behalf of our clients to make pharmacy care affordable.
And I think that that our management team has done a very effective job in that regard.
Any sense of how big Walgreens is in your pharmacy networks today from a volume perspective versus three years ago? We are not going to get into these specifics.
We havent disclosed that.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Matthew Fassler with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Two quick questions if I could on the PBM side.
First of all you maintained your claims guidance for the year I think despite somewhat better first quarter.
If you could talk about the drivers thereof I dont think sequestration would rally factor into volumes but any color there would be great.
Yeah this is Dave.
Sequestration will not factor into volumes.
So I think as you saw we had a very solid first quarter from a volume perspective.
I think you know we are only a few months into the full year so I think our trends look promising but we dont see a trend that is changing substantially other than the fact that we again had a very solid flu season for the first -- like in the January- February period.
Thats helpful.
And secondly just any update you can give us on the selling season to date and any impact that healthcare reform might be having on your clients as they think about [switching] renewing etcetera? Yeah Matt this is John.
As we talked to our employer clients they are clearly focused on the administrative requirements for healthcare reforms.
As an example tracking hours for part-time employees.
So I think as a result of that we are actually seeing fewer RFPs in that part of the marketplace than we did a year ago.
But when you look at the overall dollars that have come to the market it's actually up a little bit.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
A couple of questions here.
First is this carry from the moratorium on the marketing for Part D just to clarify does that apply just Silver Script individual Part D or does that potentially impact some of the group Part D EGWPs as well? No.
it applies to the SilverScript.
And keep in mind that we manage for our health plan customers their products and this does not apply to that segment.
And then also just -- go ahead.
Im sorry this is John.
The other thing I would add is on EGWPs clients they have people aging into their plans throughout the year.
And so if we are able to administer that and enroll those people in Medicare.
Just a quick question on the Medicare eligibles within the employer clients.
The RDS or Retiree Drug Subsidy conversions to -- Im assuming you would probably convert either to EGWPs or to individual Part D just given your footprint.
But just curious where we stand on that process whether most of that may have already occurred by 1/1/13 or some of that is still ahead of us for 1/1/14? This is John Steve.
So we did see some migration in 2013 to EGWPs.
I think with the advent of thee healthcare reform I think employers are going to continue to or will take a wait and see attitude to see how the exchanges perform but over time we do expect to see a subset of the employer market either continuing to move their members into EGWPs or moving them potentially directly into the exchanges.
Steve just to add one further point of clarity as it relates to your Med D question around SilverScript.
We continue to work with employer customers who have an EGWP or who are planning to implement an EGWP to keep them updated on the status of the sanctions.
We cannot market say to those EGWP clients until the sanction is removed.
Most of those conversions presumably would happen on 1/1/14 right? So as long as you resolve it sometime in the next call it three to six months like youd talked about it shouldnt really impact the business at all as long as there is decent time before 1/1/14.
Is that the way to think about that? Thats correct Steve and as we mentioned in our prepared remarks we have made great progress on our plan and thats exactly our goal working closely with CMS.
Our next question coming from the line of Tiffany Kanaga with Citigroup.
Please proceed with your question.
I'm calling from Deborah Weinswig's team.
What do you expect for the cadence of share repurchases for the balance of the year in order to hit your $4 billion full year target? Tiffany this is Dave.
Were very committed to returning significance back to our shareholders both in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
I think our share repurchases were a tad light in the first quarter.
We said that generally speaking that the cadence would follow the same pattern as last year.
so I would anticipate if you just looked out looked at last year that cadence and compared it to whats left of the remaining of this year is probably the best way to model it at this point in time.
Can you give us an update on how digital initiatives are driving topline and margins and how your strategy's evolving now that you appointed Brian as Chief Digital Officer? This is Mark Cosby.
Ill come from a couple of angles.
Just overall digital a number of new things that have come into play over the course of the last little while.
At the end of the last year we updated our digital site itself and its significantly easier to use.
Weve also done a couple of things from a mobile standpoint that have been big drivers for us.
We launched a five star rated mobile application towards the tail end of last year that is performing very well for us.
And then most recently this last month we came up with a version for the iPad which is essentially a virtual store.
If you havent used it I would encourage you to get on and try it.
But its also coming out with some rave reviews.
So all of these things in addition to some other initiatives that we have coming forward are enabling personalization.
Digital is just one mechanism that were using to drive that effort.
Tiffany Id just add one point.
I think that some of the things that Mark is alluding to has really advanced our digital capabilities.
More from a utility or a utilization point of view versus a product point of view.
And we have gotten very high marks from consumers on some of the more recent releases in terms of how this is making it easier for them to shop both in the front-store as well as the pharmacy.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Two things Larry.
So when you think about the renewal of the wholesales relationships with McKesson and Cardinal what was the thought process behind that we are dealing with pretty basics but the thought process what you might be doing differently in those contracts that you werent before? And then promise of daily delivery and whether you are playing around with that today? John I mean as you know we remain one of the largest purchasers of pharmacy in the country.
We essentially buy all of our generics directly from manufacturers and consolidate the vast majority of brand purchases with our wholesalers and then engage them for deliveries to our stores between fill-in deliveries from our own distribution centers.
And we are pleased with the results of the wholesaler RFP and was announced last week we have contracts with both Cardinal and McKesson.
They both do a great job for us and we feel that we are getting the best economics this way if it allows us to create I will say the most efficient network.
And it also provides for us a safe continuous and cost effective supply chain.
So we have always looked at the ways in which we can provide further innovation.
And I am sure that we have got some pilots that are in the planning process and again we are always open to ways in which we can take costs out of the supply chain and we will continue to push the envelope around that.
Is daily delivery a thing of interest to you? John we have experimented with that in the past and we -- keep in mind the arrangements with our wholesalers provide daily delivery today.
So quite frankly we are pretty pleased with the process that exists today.
But again we will continue to push the envelope and look for new ways or perhaps changes in the marketplace that creates new opportunities.
And then lastly just on the front-end would it be fair to say that front-end growth is basically flat and if you then think going forward -- because we keep hearing rumblings competitive activity picking up a little bit.
A lot of people are unhappy with their traffic.
What do you see now and where do you think that goes if traffic remains light for a lot of these guys lot of your competitors? Look John maybe I will start here and then as Mark to jump in.
The first quarter was -- on front traffic it was probably a little lumpy.
We had acknowledged it was down overall.
We got some benefits from the flu season early in the quarter but that was compromised by a lot of uneven weather patterns and then of course we were going up against having an extra day last year from leap day.
And all that Mark talked about some of the things that his team is working on acknowledging that we continue to have this cautious consumer who is looking for value.
I think the other thing just to add and Larry had it in his comments was that the share you know we picked up share in both in drug world as well as outside in the multiunit world.
So from that perspective it was good.
The number one thing we are working on in the front to get traffic into a better place falls under the headline of personalization.
I mentioned a few things when we talked about digital earlier.
But it's all about providing unique engagement to the customers through all the ways that they use it.
From service products and promotion.
ExtraCare is the piece really the center piece of all that.
As you know we have a 15-year history with that program.
Its very effective and we know through that 15 years that its more than just issuing cards.
Thats the easy part.
Its about the data that we use and how we engage with customers given what we know and been very successful over years but not resting on our laurels.
We had a couple of programs coming out over the last couple of years that have been effective for us.
The Beauty Club that launched has been very effective.
We also just two months ago launched a pharmacy and health rewards program which is about encouraging adherence retention and acquisition.
And then the biggest thing that were doing that we talked about at Analyst Day was this program we call Conversion which is customer specific opportunities to drive frequency basket and profit growth.
Two growth drivers there what we call Pure Conversion getting customers who are in our store today to buy more broadly across the store.
And then the other piece that we call Share of Wallet which is about getting people to buy deeper within categories that they all already purchased in.
both of those types of offers started a couple of months ago and have been extremely successful for us.
As a subset of that were looking at ways to deliver more opportunities to our customers.
Weve doubled the number of emails that we send out to customers both from a subscription perspective and in terms of an offer perspective.
And probably the biggest headline is what were doing with this ExtraCare coupon center or what our bloggers call the magic red coupon machines.
And the reason customers love this program is because they get the coupons before they shop as opposed to after they shop which leads to three to five times the redemption of a normal receipt at the end of a transaction and then actually 15 times the redemption of what a normal SSI coupon would drive.
And that has led to 40% increase in the number of offers and engagements of our customers within the store.
So all of this falls under the headline of personalization thats just a tidbit of what were working on.
But those are the big things that we believe will drive both sales and profits provide true differentiation versus what other folks are doing and will allow us to build on it over time.
Hey John let me just underscore one point because weve gotten a lot of questions because the royalty space is a lot more active today than it was a couple of years ago.
And Mark mentioned that issuing the cards is the easy part and we know that because weve probably issued more than 300 million cards over the life of ExtraCare.
But whats a lot harder is driving real changes in consumer behavior and I think that Mark outlined an awful lot of activities that we have underway that really allow us to optimize our promotion and maximize incremental sales to drive share in a very effective and efficient pattern.
And we have not seen any declines in our ExtraCare activity as a result of some of our competitors getting into the royalty space.
Our next question coming from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Have a couple questions.
First of all on the selling season John I think you talked about the fact that the overall dollars are up a little this year despite the fact that RFPs are lower.
So can you talk a little bit more can you expand on what type of clients are you seeing this year.
And yesterday it was reported that you won Blue Cross Blue Shield contract.
Are you expecting to see more movement within the managed care side? Ricky so we have seen some health plans early on.
Im not sure youll see a lot more moves this late in the season but CareFirst was a good example of a very sophisticated health plan.
Very pleased to have been awarded the business for a 1/1/14 start and its a full service contract for retail mail on specialty.
So that being said its still early in the season and well have more to say on our next call about how things are going.
But fewer contracts.
I think the contracts that are out there are obviously bigger if the dollars are slightly up.
So should we assume that it's just a bigger contract or not necessarily a large employer but more --? Yeah.
I think you could assume that.
Ricky I think one of the things we heard at the client forum that I alluded to was that clients are very consumer with input -- with doing all the things that need to be done as part of the implementation of the Affordable Care Act in January.
So I think we walked away with the sense that maybe there is some -- people have a lot on their plates right now.
Okay.
And then one technical question.
When we model the impact from sequestration and the costs that are associated with the Part D how should we think about it like of where would it flow through your P&amp;L? Does it flow through the PBM segment and if so should we adjust kind of like the top line for sequestration? And then cost of goods for Part D? It does.
Ricky keep in mind that it was effected I think April 1 so it's really a nine month affect to it.
I would say from a modeling perspective it's probably -- you are probably not going to see it it's just not big enough to call out that much.
Okay.
So based on the number that you gave in the beginning of the call we kind of like [did that standalone] somewhere on like the $0.02 to $0.05 drain.
So are we in the ballpark or is the impact more muted than that? Ricky I can't comment on that.
But I think what would be important to do is kind of go back and understand the fact that it covers nine months it affects only the direct subsidy that we receive from the federal government for our Silver Script plan.
And if you just kind of went back and look at the national bid look at the member premiums and kind of do the math you could get into the amount thats affected by the 2%.
So I would encourage you maybe to do that math.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
So you guys had a number of new innovative solutions on the PBM side over the last couple of months.
With the 2.0 program and sort of what you are doing around specialty and specialty retail I mean where are you seeing the most interest from the customer base particularly on the employer side for several of these offerings.
And then also on the exchange side as you think about some of the reform coming down the line how do you feel like MinuteClinic is kind of playing into that piece? And do you feel like that strength there gives you any advantage for that sort of opportunity? Yeah Ross let me start here and then John will jump in.
But again just coming back from our client forum a few weeks ago I was very excited in terms of some of the things that you have mentioned whether it's Maintenance Choice 2.0 all of the specialty initiatives that we have underway and as well as the interest in MinuteClinic I came back and said the things that we are working on are very very much aligned with what clients are most worried about and looking for solutions.
And I will let John pick it up from there to get little more specific.
So when we talk to clients on what their priorities are it's obviously managing cost for both the plan and the number.
So I think thats why Maintenance Choice has been so embraced by the marketplace.
And Larry talked about the growth from where we were in '12 up to $16.3 million numbers in '13.
Combined with Maintenance Choice we are seeing interest in narrow networks preferred networks.
Again I think clients are looking for ways to manage their direct cost.
The other thing that clearly is a top priority is specialty.
And we have talked about the trends in specialty the clients are seeing that it's becoming a bigger part of their overall drug spend and half of it is somewhat hidden under the medical benefit.
So as we talk to clients about our capabilities to manage specialty across both pharmacy and medical And I think the last thing Ill mention is employers get the value of keeping their members on medication and lowering overall healthcare costs.
So thats really our Pharmacy Advisor program and everything were doing around adherence.
The fact that weve expanded.
We now have 10 conditions on our Pharmacy Advisor program.
We now have Pharmacy Advisor in Medicare to help our clients with their Stars programs.
And then just to what Larry said around MinuteClinic for our clients we can offer a reduced copay or a zero copay for their members.
So were able to extend the benefits to their members at no additional cost make primary care more accessible for them.
So its really a win win win.
But thats what were hearing from our clients around what their priorities are.
Our next question coming from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Larry I was wondering if could you maybe give us your initial thoughts around ACA from the drug retail side and maybe if Mark wants to chime in are you signing early preferred type relationships on the Retail Pharmacy side whether it's with managed care entities or some of the private exchanges? How should we think about Retail in 2014 2015 as these exchanges are rolling out? Lisa its a great question and obviously there are an awful lot of discussions taking place.
And I would talk about the fact that those discussions are being had in CVS Caremark that we can do much more than just provide a retail distribution point for exchanges in their members.
And it really picks up where John left of in terms of an awful lot of very robust conversations in terms of the role that retail pharmacy plays along with the role that our MinuteClinics play when you think about providing primary care and chronic care support.
So I think were probably still a little early to talk about anything definitive.
But an awful lot of interest in terms of what CVS Caremark can offer.
I think specifically as you think about retail I think that if you go back to the implementation of Medicare Part D I think pharmacists across the country played a key role in terms of educating and helping seniors enroll in the Medicare Part D program.
And I certainly see a role that our pharmacists can and will play around education and information for members or potential members as they think about what it is that they are going to need to do to enroll in exchanges.
And were certainly looking to be very active from an education and infuriation perspective.
So Larry would you anticipate that we will see -- we have talked to some of the managed care guys that have said hey there's 68 000 retail pharmacies we probably don't need that many.
They can envision doing half of the retail pharmacies and having someone like a CVS as an anchor.
Are those the conversations that you're having at this point and do you think that's the direction it will move in or is it too early to say because we're very early in the discussion? Yeah I think its still too early.
I think that the discussions that weve had probably across the gambit of all different possibilities.
My sense is that at least for this first year its going to be a learning laboratory for everyone.
And I think that theres probably -- my sense is that therell probably be a little more conservatism in terms of how people think about it until some of those learnings kick in and people can be perhaps a little more definitive in terms of where the market is headed.
And then I guess my second question just would be around specialty.
Clearly great growth in specialty.
Continues to be something that plan sponsors are looking for.
Can you help us understand how many of your customers buy specialty from you today on the PBM side? So what are the future opportunities? One is it expansion to the rest of your PBM customers? Two opportunities for restrictive networks around specialty? How do we think about that opportunity over the next couple of years? Thanks.
So Lisa I would think about it in two buckets.
One is with our employer clients the vast majority of employer clients have exclusive arrangements with us around specialty.
So all of their specialty spend is going through our channel.
With health plans they tend to take an approach of having several specialty providers and we work with those health plans to make sure that we are getting not only our fair share but with our capabilities more than our fair share.
And so they may limit it two providers to half a dozen providers.
And then you have the open market where those numbers can really go really anywhere.
And I think that links in to what we are doing with our integrated specialty solution.
And we have got people that are calling on these specialty positions talking about our capabilities and working with them to get those referrals into our channels because we are easy to do business with for the physician and for the member.
So I think you are going to see -- we think specialty is going to be one of the fastest growing areas because if you look at the drug pipeline in 2016 eight of the top ten drugs by revenue are going to be specialty.
Thats clearly where pharmas focus from a pipeline perspective.
And I think you are going to see not only new drugs in the same categories but I think you are going to see the expansion of the drugs into new categories of specialty.
So I see tremendous growth which is why we are as focused as we are on a holistic approach and solution to specialty so that we can manage the member as they progress in their disease state from a pharmacy benefit to a medical benefit than in managing appropriate care appropriate therapy and making sure they are getting their specialty med at the most cost effective site.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays Capital.
Please proceed with your question.
I think I am still a little bit confused about things you expect to happen in Medicare Part D at the end of the year.
Obviously there is sequestration.
I think you have been clear about which of your members will be impacted by it.
I guess I am little less clear about the guidance you have given and what that reflects in terms of the sanctions from CMS.
Is there something in your guidance that is assuming some probability that you dont get this resolved before the next selling season? Or are there just other costs associated with that in the numbers? Meredith first and foremost I think that is largely a 2014 topic as it relates to our ability to accept auto assignees in the back half of the year.
So it's not really more but it's not really a '13 issue it's more of a '14 issue.
Clearly our guidance is comprehensive of all the cost and effort that we think is required to one correct the situation and two insure that the situation will never happen again and three go through any remediation effort that we need to get done to make sure that our members are served appropriately and CMS is satisfied that we are fully in compliance and we have no issues.
And finally it does assume that we are not adding any additional lives.
Because we at this point of time cannot mark it from a Silver Script perspective and so there is no lives being added to our book.
In fact lives due to attrition are slightly declining month over month.
And it maybe -- Meredith the sequestration question keeps coming up.
So maybe I will take a step back and give you a little bit of color on that.
And just to put this in perspective sequestration as it relates to our Silver Script insurance business for the nine months is probably going to impact us to the tune of $0.01 to $0.02 somewhere in that ballpark is probably a good estimate at this point in time.
As it relates to -- again that's the effect of government sequestration on business for this year.
Well I guess I am just so struggling to understand you have had a fantastic first quarter and congratulations and guidance for the second quarter is above where the Street is.
So I am just kind of struggling to know why the year didnt change it's not very big impact from sequestration unless you think the cost in terms of the sanctions are going to up substantially -- Well Meredith a couple of things.
First and foremost weve said very clearly that our performance for this year is going to be somewhat front half loaded versus back half loaded due to the influx of generics and the timing of the break open status of those generics.
And so youre seeing that play out.
Secondly we do -- as we said we do have some costs in the back half of the year and the first half certainly through the first quarter a lot of that was related to the incidents of flu volume being pretty high driving volume.
Were again just a few months into the year.
I think our outlook looks very solid.
But I think its just too early to predict how the rest of the year is going to play out.
Were very comfortable with where we stand but were -- I think as you know were one quarter in to a four quarter year and were going to play this out.
That's very helpful.
And Meredith as you know we have not raised guidance based on first quarter results for the reasons that Dave mentioned in terms of we still have most of the year still ahead of us.
And as Dave mentioned we remain very confident in our guidance and outlook for the year.
But thats something that well continue to obviously talk about as we get more of the year behind us.
Our next question coming from the line of Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Nice quarter.
Dave just to start off a quick question for you on the free cash flow guidance.
I guess the tone of your voice sounds like maybe there is a little risk around that if you can't mitigate the CMS stuff.
Is that fair? Are we talking about a material number or is it small? Well I think as you know we had -- were not changing our guidance from a cash flow perspective.
As we said clearly at the first of the year we had some systems issues that affected our Medicare Part D business and the result of that is really changing where we anticipated our receivables and payables to be at the end of this year with the federal government.
So its really more of a timing issue as it relates to 13 versus 14.
Id say were working hard to offset those and were optimistic that we can do that but I just want to make sure that everybody understands where we stand at this point in time.
And then Larry just a question for you on adherence.
You talked about the savings.
My question for you is how do you really measure that? How do you market that to clients and actually get paid for it? Is it just in your scripts or is it in additional PBM wins or is there some other way? Let me start then.
Again John will jump in here.
But we have built a pharmacy care economic model where we can actually evaluate on a client by client basis looking at claims.
The opportunities that we believe we have to improve adherence and a corresponding benefit in terms of overall healthcare costs.
And were actually beginning to guarantee savings associated with that.
And quite frankly its very consistent with what youre seeing in the star ratings in the Medicare program in terms of this aspect of clinical if you will being a component of that evaluation.
This is John.
To add to that PBM traditionally have managed bad trends and we continue to do that and clients want us focused on that.
But they also realize the good trends or having their members take more medication lowers overall healthcare cost.
So were able to as Larry said show into a specific client and with the pharmacy care economic model show where their members are what the opportunity is and if we get them in here what the medical savings are.
Theres buy-ups for certain programs and we guarantee returns for their investments.
And clearly when you say are we seeing more wins in the market? As the market moves to taking more risk for overall healthcare costs we believe this program offers a competitive advantage.
We publish our results around Pharmacy Advisor in peer reviewed journals.
Troy Brennan I think has done a terrific job our Chief Medical Officer in validating our activities and publishing those results so that they are credible from a client perspective.
I think that does lead to more wins in the marketplace particularly for those clients that are assuming more risk with healthcare reform.
And I think what we are talking about here is really the beginning of what will be a new Ill call it reimbursement model okay.
That really ties to outcomes management people have been talking about this for years but no one has figured out a way to quantify it.
And we believe -- not believe we know we are on the leading edge of actually building the underpinnings with which to do that as we go forward.
And it think that we are probably in the first or second inning of the nine inning game here but we believe that this is a big idea in where the market needs to head when you think about the rising costs of healthcare and what clients are expecting from us.
And quite frankly what they pay us to do for them and their members.
Maybe we will take two more questions I think.
Thank you.
Our next question is coming from the line of Tom Gallucci with Lazard Asset Management.
Please proceed with your question.
I guess first question is on the purchasing and the rebate economics.
I am not sure I heard you really get into what some of those drivers were.
Are we talking about some of the formulary changes that you made or other benefit design changes that the clients are making? Can you help us understand where thats coming from? Again we continue to -- this is Dave and I will ask John to chime in here a little bit.
We continue to push each and every day on how to more (inaudible) for the clients and members that we serve.
Part of that is through how they go back and work with either branded manufacturers or generic manufacturers to lower cost or increase the rebate yield.
And I think we continue to be pretty successful in that area.
And this is probably not one answer at the end of the day.
There is a lot of things that are across our business that we are doing.
Whether that be changes in our formulary whether that be changes in our UM program whether it be how we tailor our programs to drive value in this area.
Yes.
So there is two ways to drive value.
One is through rebates which the vast majority of that value gets passed to our clients and we do that through our formulary strategy which has been very successful.
And making sure appropriate branded drugs area available but we negotiate very aggressively with manufacturers to bring the net cost down for our clients.
The other thing is with all the generics that have come to the market over the last couple of years there are now in most therapeutic categories enough generics that provide appropriate level of care.
So we also have available for our clients what we describe as a value formulary which limits even further branded drugs that are available and boosts the overall generic fill rate across that clients book of business and deliver savings in that way.
So we offer programs that have a lot of flexibility that deliver a lot of savings and value for our clients and we continue to work very hard to bring them new value each and every year.
And then another topic you have touched on a little bit but I wondered if you could go a little bit more in depth.
You are hearing a lot more out there especially with some of the competition about having the medical benefit and the pharmacy benefits under one roof to more effectively manage particularly the specialty area.
I thought it was interesting I think about CareFirst release they talked about your supported integrating pharmacy data and their data.
Can you talk about some of your capability as how you sort of sell against the in-house model in this area? Yes.
So our capabilities allow us and I will talk about CareFirst because we think supporting our clients in this integrated model makes a lot of sense.
And PBM is traditionally managed specialty under the pharmacy benefit and the health plan has managed specialty under the medical benefit.
And as that member moves across those benefits there's handoffs that have taken place.
So our capabilities now allow us on behalf of CareFirst to manage that specialty part of their spend and those members much more effectively than they were in the past.
I think as a standalone PBM we can do the same thing.
And we can integrate with employers health plans to do the very same thing.
So it really with large employers they have multiple health plans.
So we think our model resonates because they have one provider managing that overall spent.
With the smaller employers that may have a single health plan we think partnering with our health plans to provide those same services makes sense for that book of business too.
So we can support both ways and we think both ways are very effective.
Thank you.
Our last question is coming from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
In your prepared remarks you talked a couple of times about favorable rebate economics.
I am curious if you could give us a little bit of color or further color on what that is referring to? And also interested if the generic payback period and where that trend goes from here in terms of generic benefit how that should play out from here as we work through year and into next year? Well this is Dave Eric.
Maybe I will kick it off and ask John.
Again I think from a rebate perspective again it's a lot of little things that we are doing across our book of business to drive favorable economics for our clients.
And this gets back to very specifically focusing on the formulary verse specifically focusing on the _ leveraging all the programs that we have in place to drive value for our members and the clients.
And that drives again rebate performance.
That drives back a little bit to reducing cost of goods sold for our clients.
And we shared some of that.
I think from a generics perspective were in a very heightened time period which the generic utilization continues to expand.
The generic pipelines do look robust for quite frankly for the next several years.
Were working very effectively across our book of business not only to drive economics in generics but also improve performance from a generic penetration adherence perspective.
And I think all of those drive value for us and for our clients.
Eric let me just add one point to what point Dave mentioned and it goes back to the formulary because we still get questions every now and then.
We had a lot of noise two years ago when we made the formulary changes that as weve acknowledged many times that the strategy was absolutely spot on and I think that your question is really an extension of what clients are now experiencing at the benefit of that strategy.
I think what we had acknowledged was right strategy.
We needed to do a better job from an execution point of view largely tied to the timing of the communication.
So the clients have certainty around the new plan year and all the changes that would take place.
So that was a good learning for us.
But I think that were seeing the financial benefits of that as we speak.
Listen Ill just wrap up here.
And we certainly appreciate everyones time today appreciate the questions.
I think the questions had been very much aligned with where were making investments in the business investments that are aligned with our clients expectations and needs.
And while we know we have many challenges ahead of us in the healthcare space we are certainly excited by the opportunities that we have to bring meaningful solutions.
So thanks for your time again this morning and well talk to you soon.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the CVS Caremark Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday August 6 2013.
Id now like to turn the conference over to the Senior Vice President of Investor Relations Ms.
Nancy Christal.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Frank.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Im here with our President and CEO Larry Merlo who will provide an update on the business.
After Larry our Executive Vice President and CFO Dave Denton will review financial results and guidance.
John Roberts President of PBM and Mark Cosby President of our retail business are also with us today and will participate in the Q&amp;A session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than two questions so we can provide more callers with the chance to ask their questions.
Just before this call we posted a slide presentation on our website that summarizes the information you will hear today as well as key facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
I encourage you to take a look at that.
Additionally we plan to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q by the close of business today and it will be available through our website at that time.
During this call well use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our Companys performance mainly free cash flow EBITDA and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP measures as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always todays call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one-year.
Now I have one key date to announce this morning.
Please note that we will host our Analyst Day on the morning of Wednesday December 18 in New York City.
At that time we will provide 2014 guidance as well as a comprehensive update on our growth strategy.
In addition to Larry and Dave you will have the opportunity to hear from additional members of our senior management team.
We plan to send invitations with more specific details via email by next week.
So please save the date.
Again thats Wednesday December 18th.
If you dont receive an invitation and would like to attend please contact me at your earliest convenience.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation well make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our upcoming quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now Ill turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Let me begin by saying were very pleased with our strong operating results enterprise wide in the second quarter.
Operating profit increased 15% overall with the PBM growing about 32% and the retail business growing nearly 9%.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter came at $0.97 thats at the high-end of our guidance and we also generated a substantial amount of free cash totaling $1.7 billion for the first half of 13 and we remain committed to our disciplined approach to capital allocation continuing to focus on returning significant value to our shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases.
Now considering our strong operating results to-date and all other factors affecting our outlook for the remainder of the year were narrowing our earnings guidance for 2013 to a range of $3.90 to $3.96.
And thats from our previous range of $3.89 to $4.
And while Dave will provide more details around the drivers of our revised guidance during this financial review I do want to mention that a key driver of lowering the high-end of our guidance range is a higher than forecast weighted average share count.
Now as we announced last week weve reached an agreement in principle with the SEC to resolve its investigation of various Company matters that occurred back in 2009.
During the second quarter we engaged in extensive settlement negotiations with the SEC and as a result we suspended our share repurchase activity until weve reached the agreement in principal.
Now that it has been reached we plan to resume our repurchasing efforts this quarter and we still expect to complete the $4 billion in share repurchases that we had planned for this year.
So if you do the math with our share repurchase is now back half way then as opposed to recurring ratably throughout the year as we had originally anticipated.
This timing shift is estimated to dampen the accretive impact of the share repurchase program for the year by as much as $0.04.
Now despite this timing shift in share repurchases our updated guidance for 13 equates to excellent adjusted EPS year-over-year growth in the range of 13.5% to 15.25%.
So were still anticipating a very successful 2013.
Now let me provide a brief business update and I will start with the 2014 PBM selling season.
Our model continues to resonate well in the marketplace and were very pleased with our results to-date.
Gross wins for 2014 are $4.4 billion to-date while net new business stands at $1.7 billion.
And thats despite lower RFP activity this season.
Weve been successful across all segments and this net new business excludes any impact on our Med D PDP business which I will come back to in a minute.
There are still some modest opportunities remaining for 2014 most of those are on the employer side and work is already underway for the 15 selling season.
As for renewals weve completed almost 50% and have a retention rate of 97% so overall again were very pleased with our selling season to-date and confident that we continue to be well positioned in the marketplace with our unique products and services.
So I thought I'd just spend a minute touching on what clients have been focused on this selling season and one area of both employer and health plan client concern is managing their specialty spend across the pharmacy and medical benefits.
And as a result we are seeing interest across our entire suite of specialty capabilities including utilization management programs specialty guideline management formulary strategies as well as our site of care and medical claims added in products and we believe our differentiated approach to specialty is driving lower overall costs while improving health and providing value for both payers and patients.
Our specialty revenues grew 19% year-over-year in the second quarter and that was driven by drug price inflation utilization new product launches and new PBM clients.
At our continued focus on managing specialty cost per client will help us continue to drive our share of specialty going forward.
Now in addition to managing specialty costs our clients are also focused on the changes resulting from the Affordable Care Act and we continue to believe that Medicaid expansion and individual small group coverage and the public exchanges will be a long-term secured growth trend resulting in a significant amount of new coverage for people who have previously been uninsured.
Now details around the exchanges including planned participants planned designs and rates they continue to emerge and we believe we are very well positioned given our retail footprint along with our existing relationships with health plans and managed Medicaid plans.
We've had a lot of dialogue with health plans about collaborating with us on innovative programs that support their overall exchange strategy and these discussions often encompass how they can partner with us across our retail touch points while tapping into our direct-to-consumer marketing expertise to attract and retain members.
We also discussed our medic clinic in support care management and wellness programs for the newly insured and how a plan can maximize the benefits from all of the unique clinical and member engagement programs that we can offer through our CVS pharmacy network and we believe all of the activity around the exchanges will serve as a catalyst for broader collaboration opportunities with our health plans.
I do want to touch briefly on the PBM streamlining initiative which as you're aware launched in late 2010 and is near completion.
We are on track to achieve the expected annual savings run rate of 225 million to 275 million in 2014.
And as for the consolidation of adjudication platforms we have now completed 11 waves of migration and we continue to leverage our resource and technology investments to refine our processes and improve efficiencies resulting in moving more clients and limiting potential disruption in each of those successive ways.
85% of our business is scheduled to be on the destination platform by yearend so overall the streamlining initiative has been very successful.
So let me turn to our Medicare Part D business and just a quick review we currently serve 6.8 million members in our Medicare Part D business and we do that through the health plans we serve as well as our individual Silver Script PDP including EGWP.
Our individual PDP currently serves approximately 3.4 million of our 6.8 million members.
Now last week we received the preliminary benchmark results from CMS for 2014 and we're pleased with the outcome.
Silver Script was below the benchmark or within the de minimis range in 31 of the 34 regions.
We missed the benchmark only in one small region in which we qualified today where we have about 2 000 lives that will be subject to reassignment to another plan.
So aside from any normal attrition these benchmark results should enable us to retain the vast majority of the auto-assigns we currently serve.
Let me update you on where we stand with respect to the sanction imposed by CMS earlier this year.
And as you know the sanction prevents us from marketing our Silver Script PDP or enrolling new members.
And as we've said our goal has been to complete our remediation efforts so that the sanction would be listed before the annual enrollment period begins for the '14 plan year.
Now given some additional complexity that we uncovered while working to resolve the issues along with our strong commitment to ensuring that we are ready to operate at best-in-class levels we have revised our plan and expanded the timeline for remediation.
And based on our latest estimate we now expect our remediation efforts will be completed sometime near the end of the year.
Once our remediation has been completed CMS will conduct its review to determine whether the issues have been fixed are not likely to recur and when the sanction will be removed.
So what does all that mean? Well given this current timeline we do not expect that we will be able to participate in the 2014 annual enrollment period when it begins in October.
In addition until the sanction is lifted we do not expect to receive new auto-assigns from CMS for 2014 in the regions where we qualify.
The sanction primarily affects our individual Silver Script PDP which as I mentioned has about 3.4 million lives.
It does not affect the Medicare Part D business through the health plans we serve and as a reminder our EGWPs are also not affected by the sanction since we continue to operate under a limited waiver from CMS that allows us to enroll newly eligible retirees into our existing plans.
So let me put some parameters around the situation.
First of all assuming that sanction is not listed prior to the end of the year here are a few factors that we can roughly estimate at this point.
First based on the preliminary results of our bid we do expect to be able to retain the vast majority of our current 2.5 million low income subsidy enrollees.
Second based on the historic competitiveness of our products we do expect to retain a majority of our 900 000 non-low income subsidy chooser lives and these enrollees have previously chosen Silver Script as their PDP.
Third and consistent with a typical Medicare Part D plan there will be some normal attrition of our enrollees due to death relocation and other normal member eligibility factors and we estimate this attrition will continue at the rate of roughly 25 000 lives per month.
And in January rates of attrition are generally a bit higher after they have gone through their typical decision processes during the annual enrollment period.
So to put some preliminary numbers around this again using historical attrition rates we estimate our PDP lives could decrease by about 350 000 lives leaving us with approximately 3.1 million lives in our individual Sliver Script PDP by the end of January '14.
So clearly the sanction limits our ability to expand our Med D lives for '14 and we will continue to work diligently to have the sanction lifted as soon as possible in order to be able to enroll new members and participate in the individual age-in process next year in the regions where we have qualified.
Now obviously we take this issue very seriously.
We have devoted additional resource to fully meet the needs of this important customer base.
And while this does present a challenge for '14 in our Medicare Part D business it's important to note that we still see significant opportunity to grow our Med D business over the long term and the remediation steps that we are taking will allow us to do just that.
Now moving on to the retail business we had another very solid quarter.
Total same-store sales increased 0.4% revenue growth was muted by the impact from new generics which had a 670 basis point negative impact on pharmacy comps in the quarter.
Pharmacy same-store sales increased 0.8% with pharmacy same-store scripts increasing 1.8% when counting 90-day scripts as one and increasing 5% when counting 90-day supplies as three scripts.
We have seen a greater than historical rate of conversion to 90-day from 30-day scripts which is driven by the strong growth in our maintenance choice programs.
Our retention of the scripts gained during the impasse between Walgreens and Express Scripts continues to exceed our expectations.
And as you know our goal is to retain at least 60% of the scripts gained during the impasse and given our outperformance to-date we remain very confident that we will continue to retain at least 60% of the scripts in '13.
As for the front store business comps decreased 0.4%.
It was impacted largely by the shift in the Easter holiday from April of '12 to March of '13 which had a negative impact to front store comps of about 65 basis points.
And during the quarter pharmacy traffic was up while the front-store traffic was down and at the same time average front-store ticket continued to increase.
And I think it's important to note that despite the slight decrease in front-store comps our front-store margins expanded nicely in the quarter and we continue to focus on driving more profitable sales through the target of promotions we offer to extra care cardholders and were focused on increased personalization to accomplish this.
And to gain a bigger share of wallet we have identified customer specific opportunities for increasing frequency of both the shop and the basket size and to drive this conversion we continued to dramatically expand our personalized offers that are delivered at the point of sale and in the second quarter alone we issued more than three billion such offers and weve also significantly expanded our personalized offers that we deliver via email.
So extra care provides extraordinary precision due to the scale of customer engagement along with the 15 years of data that has provided us unique insights into customer behavior trends and we continue to use these valuable insights from our extra care program to drive the evolution of how we tailor our stores to better meet local needs.
And our latest data shows that we continue to gain market share.
Our front-store market share growth in the second quarter versus a year ago was 71 basis points and 8 basis points and thats when compared to drug and multi-outlet competitors respectively.
As for new stores we opened 47 newer relocated stores we closed one during the quarter resulting in 22 net new stores in the second quarter and this puts us on pace to achieve our 2% to 3% square footage growth target for the year.
Let me turn briefly to MinuteClinic which once again recorded exceptional revenue growth with sales up 32% versus the same quarter last year.
We opened 35 net new places in the quarter and in Q2 with 684 clinics in 25 states in the District of Columbia.
Our expansion plans called for the opening of 150 clinics this year and to end 13 with just under 800 clinics with around 30% of our expansion this year in new markets.
Our longer term goal is to create a national primary care platform to provide integrated high quality care that is convenient accessible and affordable and new services will continue to be developed to address the shortage of primary care physicians and to support patients impacted by the epidemic of chronic disease and our positioning further supports that primary care medical home model along with connectivity through electronic health records to numerous health system alliances.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
Today Ill provide a detailed review of our second quarter results and then Ill provide guidance for the third quarter and update our full-year 2013 outlook.
But first Id like to highlight how we have been enhancing shareholder value through disciplined capital allocation program.
During the second quarter we paid approximately $276 million in dividends bringing our year-to-date payout to $553 million.
Given our continued strong earnings outlook this year we remain on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 25% by the end of this year.
And as a reminder that is two years ahead of schedule that we laid out back in 2010.
Additionally we repurchased approximately 6.4 million shares for approximately $355 million in the quarter at an average price of $55.39 per share.
And as Larry indicated we ended the quarter with more shares outstanding than we had planned because of our decision to suspend share repurchases until we were more fully certain of the outcome of our negotiations with the FEC.
And despite our slower pace in the second quarter we still expect to complete $4 billion of share repurchases in 13 consistent with our original plan and note that the guidance we're providing today assumes the $4 billion of share purchases will be completed this year.
So between dividends and share repurchases we have returned more than $1.3 billion to our shareholders through just the first half of this year and we continue to expect to return approximately $5 billion for the full-year.
We have generated approximately $1.7 billion of free cash in the first two quarters of 13 and improving our cash generation capabilities by enhancing our working capital management remains an area of focus for us and we have made excellent progress over the past several years in reducing our cash cycle.
As I pointed out on our last call we have taken nearly two weeks out of our cash cycle over the course of the last 10 quarters.
Inventory has seen the greatest amount of improvement but all areas have benefited from our focus on extracting value from our balance sheet and we remain committed to further improvements as we look further into the future.
And as previously highlighted on our last earnings call we noted that we may have some timing issues with respect to CMS payables and receivables that may affect our free cash flow delivered for the year given the issues we experience following our Med D plan consolidation.
While we're maintaining our guidance for free cash flow between $4.8 billion and $5.1 billion this year we're still working to offset this headwind through our free cash flow targets and will continue to update you on our progress as we go forward.
Turning to the income statement adjusted earnings per share from continued operations came in at $0.97 per share at the high end of our guidance.
GAAP diluted EPS was $0.91 per share and as weve said weighted average share count was higher than planned but the impact of that in the second quarter was negated by a slightly more favorable tax rate and good expense management within the corporate segment.
Now let me quickly walk you through our results.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the second quarter increased 1.7% or approximately $534 million to $31.2 billion.
This was near the top of our guidance range.
Solid increases in revenues in both the PBM and retail segments were offset only slightly by the increase in inter-segment activity versus primarily driven by the increase in adoption of our Maintenance Choice program.
Within the segments PBM net revenues increased 2% or approximately $377 million to $18.8 billion.
This growth was approximately 55 basis points above the high end of our guidance.
The out-performance was driven by higher than anticipated claims volume primarily from Maintenance Choice and Medicare Part D utilization.
Claims growth year-over-year was driven by new client wins and increased membership within our existing book of business especially pharmacy was also a key driver.
This was largely offset by the significant impact from new generics.
The PBMs generic dispensing rate increased nearly 275 basis points versus the same quarter of last year to 81%.
Note that the year-over-year increase is down sequentially from last quarters year-over-year increase by about 125 basis points and this is the trend that should continue throughout the year given that fewer generic conversions are expected for the remainder of this year versus last year.
Now revenues in the retail business increased 1.9% in the quarter or approximately $294 million to $16.1 billion.
New generic introductions also negatively impacted retail sales with our retail GDR increasing approximately 280 basis points versus the second quarter of 12 to 82%.
Now offsetting that phenomenon was the growth of our Maintenance Choice program was contributed to sales performance coming in near the higher end of expectations.
Turning to gross margin we reported 18.7% for the consolidated company in the quarter an increase of approximately 95 basis points compared to Q2 of 12.
Within the PBM segment gross margin increased by approximately 90 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 5.1% while gross profit dollars increased approximately 24% year-over-year.
This increase year-over-year was primarily driven by increasing in GDR higher volumes from new clients and new members and better acquisition costs and rebate economics.
These positive margin drivers were partially offset by price compression and remediation and operating cost in our Medicare Part D business.
Gross margin in the retail segment was 31% also up about 90 basis points over LY as with the PBM this improvement driven primarily by the increase in GDR and also by improvement in front-store margins.
Additionally gross profit dollars increased 4.8% year-over-year within the retail segment.
Expense leverage was also impacted by the growth in GDR while the de-leveraging was optically negative the growth of expense dollars was within normal parameters.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues increased approximately 20 basis points from Q2 of 12 to 12.4% while total SG&amp;A dollars grew by just 3.4%.
The PBM segments SG&amp;A rate was essentially flat to LY at 1.5%.
The benefits from PBM's more efficient cost structure versus the same quarter last year was basically offset by the deleveraging effect of an improved GDR and cost related to remediation efforts within Medicare Part D.
From the retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales increased to approximately 25 basis points to 21.1%.
And as expected this too is mainly due to a deleveraging effect of the growth in generics.
Overall SG&amp;A expenses grew by 3.2%.
Within the corporate segment expenses were virtually flat year-over-year at $176 million.
Now adding it all up operating margin for the total enterprise improved to approximately 75 basis points to 6.3%.
Operating margin of the PBM improved by approximately 80 basis points to 3.6% while operating margin at retail improved about 60 basis points to 9.9%.
For the quarter we were comfortably within the high end of our guidance for operating profit growth in both retail and the PBM segment.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 8.6% while PBM operating profit was once again solid growing at 32%.
Now going below the line of a consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter declined approximately $5 million from last year to $127 million and the debt refinancing we did in the fourth quarter last year was the primary driver of the decrease.
Additionally our effective tax rate was 39.1% which is slightly better than expected.
And as we discussed our weighted average share count was higher than anticipated about 1.24 billion shares for the quarter.
Now let me update you on our guidance.
I'm going to focus on the highlights here but you can find additional details of our guidance within the slide presentation we posted on our website early this morning.
As previously stated we narrowed our EPS range for the full year of '13 to reflect our strong operating results and to incorporate our current plans with timing of share repurchases.
We are taking down the top end of the PBM operating profit forecasted growth to reflect some incremental remediation costs related to our Medicare Part D sanction.
However these costs are expected to be more than offset by the increase in our retail operating profit growth forecast all of which is reflected in our revised guidance.
All things considered we've raised the low end of guidance by $0.01 and lowered the high end by $0.04.
We currently expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share in 2013 in the range of $3.90 to $3.96 per share reflecting excellent year-over-year growth of 13.5% to 15.25% after removing the impact related to the early extinguishment of debt in 2012.
GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.71 per share.
We've narrowed our top line outlook and now expect consolidated net revenue growth of 2% to 3%.
This guidance reflects the solid performance across the enterprise year-to-date driven by better volumes as well as inflation.
We've raised the PBM segment's revenue guidance to 2% to 3% growth while narrowing retail's expected revenue growth to 2.25% to 3.25%.
We expect total comp stores same-store sales of 1% to 2%.
We are maintaining our prior guidance for script comps of 1.5% to 2.5%.
Now we are also introducing a new guidance metric adjusted script comps adjusting 90-day fills for the 30-day equivalents.
Given the high rate of conversions from 30-day fills to 90-days fills we believe this is a better indication of pharmacy performance and we expect adjusted script comps to be in the range of 4% to 5%.
As I said guidance for operating profit growth in our retail segment has been raised while we have brought down the high end of the range for the PBM segment.
We now expect retail operating profit to increase 9% to 10% year-over-year and PBM operating profit to increase 11% to 13%.
We now expect net interest expense between $500 million and $510 million a slight increase over our prior guidance.
We are increasing our weighted average share count forecast to 1.23 billion shares up from 1.22 billion.
And as I said previously our free cash flow guidance for the year remains in the range of $4.8 billion to $5.1 billion.
In the third quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1 to $1.03 per share reflecting growth of 17% to 21% versus the same period of LY.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operation is expected to be in the range of $0.94 to $0.97 in the third quarter.
Within the retail segment we expect revenues to increase 4% to 5.5% versus the third quarter of last year.
The revenue increase will be driven by solid volume growth while we expect a sharp decline and a dampening effect from new generic introductions.
We expect same-store sales of 3% to 4.25%.
Script comps are expected to increase in the range of 1.25% to 2.25% while adjusted script comps are forecasted to be 3% and 3.75% to 4.75%.
Within the PBM we expect revenue growth between 4.5% and 5.5% driven by volume growth and inflation and also benefiting from the decline in the effective new generics.
Operating profit in the retail segment is expected to grow 7.5% to 9% in third quarter while operating profit in the PBM segment is expected to grow 19% to 23%.
So again we expect another very solid quarter.
And before I turn it back over to Larry I want to touch on the quarterly flow of profits in the back half of '13 and particularly within the PBM.
If you take the full year and third quarter guidance that I've just laid out and plug that into your models you might note that our implied Q4 operating profit growth in the PBM is anemic.
Here are few points you should keep in mind that should help you better understand why Q4 is somewhat atypical this year.
First we've consistently stated the positive impact of new generics in 2013 will be front half loaded given the timing of break open generics in 2012 and the resulting lap affect into the first half of '13.
We'll be lapping the impact of the substantial amount of break open generics so the comparison year-over-years are tough.
Second the timing of Medicare Part D profits in '13 is turning out to be different than 2012 due to a number of factors.
These include the impact of a sanction changes in earned rebates in the mix of the business across our choice versus basic products.
And as a result of these factors we are seeing a shift to profitability this year from Q4 which has historically been our most profitable Med D quarter into Q3.
So while the year and even the back half of this year remains very profitable the comparison year-over-year in the third and fourth quarters are not expected to be typical.
And I hope this helps put in context the full profits in both Q3 as well as Q4.
So in summary the second quarter was a very strong quarter and we continue to expect strong earnings growth for the year.
And I want to assure you that we remain committed to utilizing our substantial cash generation capabilities to deliver shareholder value.
With that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Okay thanks Dave.
Again we're very pleased with our strong operating performance this quarter along with our strong outlook for the 2013 year.
And despite the near-term challenges in our Med D operations we do remain excited about the long-term opportunity for the growth in the Medicare business.
So with that let's open it up for your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of John Heinbockel from Guggenheim Securities.
Please proceed.
So Larry two things I wanted to touch on the first is the health personalization effort.
Where do you guys stand with that in terms of being fully functional? And then what are you seeing with regard to redemption of your offers and vendor support for that program? And then finally do you think that has a greater impact will have a greater impact on top line or gross margin? Yeah John let me take the second half of your question and then I will ask Mark to come back to your first points.
And John I think consistent as we have talked many times and as I mentioned in my prepared remarks weve continued to use ExtraCare to create value for customers and to gain a bigger share of wallet.
And were always experimenting and working to find that appropriate balance in terms of driving profitable sales and so there is a sales margin equation there and we continue to finance our strategy with the goal of were not going to chase empty sales out in the marketplace.
I will say in response to your second question that I think that the way we use ExtraCare benefits margin as much as sales because youre not going to target the cherry pickers in terms of your ExtraCare offering.
So I think that over time the supplier community has grown to appreciate the value that ExtraCare brings them in terms of their ability to target specific customers based on whatever the product is and whoever they define as the user for their products.
So they find ExtraCare as a very effective tool versus some of the other tools that are available in the marketplace like the free standing coupon inserts.
And as a result I think that weve been able to demonstrate to them a higher return on their investment as a result of higher redemption rate.
So I will let Mark talk a little bit about where were at this personalization and some things weve coming online later this year.
Thanks Larry.
One of our founding truths really within the retail world is personalization and most of our initiatives are geared around bringing that to life.
The foundation of that is ExtraCare as Larry talked about earlier we do have the biggest program by a long shot but issuing cards really is the easiest part.
The tough part is behavior change and thats where the 15 years of history that we have in place has really helped us with improving the productivity of the program over time.
We know it works we know it doesnt work and that helps us improve the sales and profits over time.
I think the other thing you all know we do track our ExtraCare program religiously versus our competition in all of our customer satisfaction scores from a loyalty perspective are higher.
With that said were not resting on our laurels.
Earlier this year we did rollout pharmacy and health rewards program 3 million folks now enrolled in the program.
Its very distinct from what you find out in the open market.
Its an opt-in program where we can motivate our highest value customers.
Its individual based versus household based.
So its powerful for encouraging adherence and retention and all of our customers can participate in the program regardless of the payment structure.
The biggest thing that we do earlier this year around personalization is a program we talked conversion.
Its customer specific offers with two big goals in mind.
Theyre what we call conversion offers which encourage customers to shop broadly across the store.
So if they shop on a couple of categories we try to work on them across the entire store and then we have it called share of wallet offers where we encourage our customers to spend more on the categories that they already shopping it.
And every customer receives both of these types of offers.
This program is new this year and has been very successful for us.
Also doing a lot to try and improve how we deliver the offers our email program is up 2x more it was at this point last year.
We also rolled out earlier this year a big program against our ExtraCare center which is what our bloggers call our Magic Coupon Machine.
Weve a lot of programs in place that have led to a 40% improvement in the usage of that program and it is one of our biggest conversion drivers because the coupons come out in advance of the transaction not after the transaction leading to a 15 times increase in redemption versus a standard coupon.
And then later this year probably the biggest thing weve coming out is what were calling our personalized circular which will take our traditional mass circular approach and do a circular for each individual customer and we will deliver that mechanism both online and via mobile application.
So tremendous amount happening in the personalization front it is one of our foundation principles and well continue to take it to the next level.
Okay.
And John just in terms of your other question around what do we think around redemption.
We are seeing redemption on a per customer basis up year-over-year.
Okay.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Thanks very much and good morning everyone.
Good morning Lisa.
I just had some questions around the selling season.
Larry or if Jon is there can you just talk about your expectations for 2014 your ability to sell Maintenance Choice 1.0 2.0? And I think Larry youve talked about specialties specifically in the quarter.
Can you talk about where youre on penetration for specialty and where you see the opportunity as we move into 2014? Yeah.
So Lisa as we look at the selling season and if you disaggregate the overall healthcare spent that a payer see so they disaggregate inpatient spending outpatient spending pharmacy spending  pharmacy is now one of largest categories of cost and those is a high priority for payers.
When you look at pharmacy specialty is an increasing focus and it is now one of the top priorities that were  and were seeing trends of around 20% and in some cases its higher.
So our capabilities in specialty are resonating extremely well with both our existing clients as well as prospective clients and have led to some of our success of selling season.
So weve capabilities to manage the specialty spend not only in the pharmacy benefit but also in the medical benefit and as youre aware about half of the specialty spend is covered in the pharmacy benefit and the other half is covered in the medical benefit.
In our new integrated specialty model also has appeal similar to Maintenance Choice and we rolled out across all of our CVS stores beginning early next year.
So you combine these capabilities with all of our integrated capabilities such as Maintenance Choice Pharmacy and MinuteClinic payers are seeing the value of our integrated model.
So specifically with Maintenance Choice were at about 16.5 million members.
We introduced Maintenance Choice 2.0 this year.
We see a runway to grow that to 30 million members.
So were very excited about that.
When we look at our penetration in specialty when you look at our employer book of business we have most of their specialty spend.
We are looking to expand our reach into the medical side that today we see as mostly unmanaged.
When you look at our health plan space they have multiple providers and we think with our capabilities we can get them to reduce the number of providers they have and grow our shares.
So were very excited about both of those products and all of our capabilities or weve had a lot to do with our success on the selling season and also in retention of our existing clients.
So Jon when we think about the 2014 selling season in specialty are you doing anything around the formulary? I know youve been successful on the formulary side for just regular chemical compounds but what are you seeing on the specialty side? Are you trying to see whether you can have multiple manufacturers competing against each other for a class and therefore thats something that you can bring to the table? I mean clearly prices keep going up on specialty but what are some of the things that youve won business on that youre a little bit differentiated in the marketplace.
It sounds like one of the things has been able to pick up the prescription at a CVS store but what are some of the other things? Yeah Lisa I think as it relates to formulary and specialty we have begun that process.
If you look at category like growth hormone we have brought a formulary process that exits in the traditional spend to specialty in that regard and I think the opportunities there will continue to grow over time as more products enter the marketplace that do not have clinical differentiation.
Can that drive the profit  is that a profit drive over the next couple of years? I mean clearly its a saving driver for your customer but is it also a profit driver for CVS? Yeah I think its  I mean as you know Lisa the client gets a disproportionate share of those rebates and  but well thats the case and that definitely a cost savings for the client.
There is enhanced profitability for the business as well.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Lisa.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research.
Please proceed.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
I really wanted to delve into the free cash flow if I could for a little bit were kind of behind this year Dave and I was wondering if you can maybe walk me first to how we get to about 5 billion maybe there's some timing issues there? The second question is with the CMS issues and other things it sounds like maybe we won't get there and I guess my question around that is that's just a timing issue? Will that money show up eventually or is it more of a permanent factor? And then the third thing on cash flow is if CMS and the way things are going with that and kind of hurting cash flow a little bit does that have impacts as we look into '14? Okay.
Thanks.
Great question.
Just a couple things.
First and foremost as you looked kind of year-over-year through the first half of this year compared to last year if you recall last year the timing of payments for CMS happened right on the quarter end kind of in advance of the next quarter.
So there was  last year for the first half free cash flow was somewhat inflated compared to a normal trend.
So you have kind of tough comparisons from that standpoint.
So that's just a flip between first half second half.
So that's no big deal if you will.
Keep in mind as we think about free cash flow yield for this year will not change our guidance of 4.8 to 5.1.
And there's kind of two items that are kind of in play here.
The first is from a CMS payment cycle is a bit longer for closed plans and upon the first of this year we consolidated our plans at the beginning of this year and the result of that is one of our historical plan is considered closed.
So this is just simply a timing issue.
As we think about that receivable probably flowing not into '13 but probably into the first half of '14.
The second item is due to our service challenges in the first of the quarter where we wanted to insure that all members had adequate access to pharmacy despite some of the system issues that we were experiencing.
So to ensure that that access happened with all of our members some additional utilization took place or issues putting pressure on our cash flow delivery.
Having said all that most of that is a timing issue and we're working hard to make sure that we get within our guidance range this year.
So I hope that puts that in context Scott.
Yeah and it even sounds like it doesn't have real much impact  I mean timing issues aside '14 is really not impacted by these same issues or is that? That is correct Scott.
Okay so that's perfect.
That would be great and I really appreciate the clarity there.
And then the second question I had was for Mark.
It seems like we have lots of flow into or traffic that's going into these pharmacies likely to pick up again next year with how you guys are positioned with the Affordable Care Act.
So I guess what I'm looking for and I think if I was going to say that the front end was a little weaker than we anticipated how do you harness all that traffic into maybe above  not same profits are good but getting those people to utilize the front end and maybe drive incremental profit as we look to '14? And then I'll yield.
Thank you.
Scott I mean I think the answer around that is consistent with what you've heard us talk about in the past.
As we introduce new customers to CVS pharmacy and if that point of introduction comes from the pharmacy first we have a unique opportunity to introduce them to the other products and services available across the entire store.
So getting them enrolled in extra care okay a prime example of that and I think that that kind of becomes the pathway to engaging those customers in a differentiated way that allows us to harness some front store impact.
Thanks everybody appreciate it.
Thanks Scott.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks.
This is Zack for Ricky and thanks for the color.
I wanted to ask another follow-up question on the front store.
The negative for traffic in the quarter I was just curious is this a trend that you see continuing? And was this in line with your expectations given that you were expecting to trade for some bigger basket size? And also some color around your market share on the front store for the quarter? Yes Zack in terms of customer traffic it was pretty much in line with what we expected recognizing that there was a calendar shift with Easter that negatively impacted traffic.
And I think as both Mark and myself had mentioned earlier we are certainly mindful of how we manage that balance between driving traffic and managing promotional spend with those sales and margin in mind.
And we look to bring I'll say a surgeon's knife so to speak in terms of finding that right balance.
So we continue to see a very cautious consumer out there and we don't see that changing throughout the balance of this year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And on a completely separate topic there have been some rumors about the quarter of you guys being tied up and being interested in a European partner without I guess addressing those specific rumors.
Could you just refresh us after having expanded a little bit in Brazil what your thoughts are on global and particularly in the European market? Yeah Zack we're not  I mean as you know we have a policy of not commenting on rumors on the marketplace but as we've discussed in the past around our international strategy it was not a question of  it was more of a question of when and where.
And as you know with this share we acquired an operating retail pharmacy chain in Brazil and we're six months into that and we're very pleased with how that's going in terms of the learnings that we're getting and the opportunities that we see to bring synergies with our U.S.
operations and we're opening some stores this year.
We'll accelerate our openings next year.
And so far so good and we will use those learnings to further our agenda internationally where it makes economic sense.
And again as we've talked in the past we will approach that with financial visibility.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly from Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Nice quarter.
Larry could I just  I want to just clarify what you said about the Med D business and the impact for next year.
It seems like the mass should be about 350 000 lives year-over-year that you would be down on.
Is that correct I guess first to make sure that's right? And then as we think about the impact should we be thinking about average revenue probably just under $1 000 per member per year and maybe a mid single digit type unit margin on that business? I'll take the first part and probably the second part maybe Dave will jump in here as well.
But your takeaway in terms of the lives impact was right in terms of we're expecting a year-over-year compression in the range of 350 000 lives for the reasons that we had mentioned.
And we do not disclose the revenue or profit per life in the Med D business for competitive reasons.
I would also again back to the earlier comments that the 350 000 life adjustment represents about 10% of our overall individual Silver Script PDP lives and right around 5% of our total in Med D lives.
Okay.
This is Dave.
I just want to clarify just one point is that what we had said is that as you roll forward from where we are today to I'll say January 14 that's our estimate of 350 000 lives coming out at that point.
Okay perfect.
And Larry just a similar follow-up on the idea of generic procurement and the opportunities available for things like partnerships.
Could you just give us an update on how you're thinking about the opportunity out there for CVS in this area? Obviously you don't want your competitors to see a lot of opportunity and just to get your updated thoughts on this area and the potential for you to generate savings at some point going forward is there? Yeah Ed I think as everyone's aware we've renewed our wholesaler agreements with Cardinal and McKesson a few months ago and and were very pleased with the results of that and we believe that the relationship that we have with both of those wholesalers first of all they both do a great job and we believe that that makes the most sense for us from both an economic as well as an efficient distribution network.
Now we are certainly constantly evaluating opportunities on the market place and if we thought that there were further opportunities for us to enhance our efficiency from both a cost as well as a distribution network point of view we certainly wouldnt hesitate to pursue those opportunities.
And so I think thats something that were watching closely and we will continue to evaluate.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks Ed.
Thank Ed.
Our next question comes from the line of Dane Leone from Macquarie.
Please proceed.
Hi thank you for taking the questions.
So maybe Ill ask the topical question of Medicare PDP a different way and I appreciate that over the past year or two youve focused your strategy over to overall EBITDA growth versus EBITDA prescript growth and with the PDP headwind going into 2014 and thinking about the optionality you have with the balance sheet could you just update your strategy of what you see in the areas of organic versus inorganic EBITDA growth as consolidation rolls through the entire industry but in the context of the plan and obviously a disappointment with CMS? Thank you.
This is Dave I guess first and foremost let me just point out that we -- from using our capital structure weve been very disciplined and in the program that we have in place to kind of drive value for our shareholders.
First kind of in three areas one increasing our dividend but probably more importantly in this aspect investing back in our business that we see good line of sight from a return on investment perspective and well use our balance sheet to do that.
Further more our cash flow yield in generation is pretty substantial so well continue to use that to drive our share repurchase program that will continue to work to enhance shareholder value.
So well -- and if you keep in mind we said very clearly that our adjusted debt to EBITDA target were 2.7 times were a little better than that at this point in time which gives us some additional flexibility as we think about using our balance sheet to drive value for our shareholders and well continue to do that both as you just heard through this year but certainly into next year as well.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard Cleveland Research.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Curious on the PBM growth outlook as you think about an even frame where you think we are in terms of generic benefits to profitability in the PBM relative to sure penetration of 90 day and the efforts that youre making with the formulary.
I am curious how you would mix all that together and think about the growth curve of PBM profits over the next 12 24 36 months? Well Eric this is Dave.
I dont know if I can get you really specific here but I think in general as weve talked about there is a few things that are driving kind of growth in our business over time.
Clearly our ability to garner lives and share in the PBM space has been pretty important to us and as youve even seen this year is very successful selling season as we continue to get more lives into the PBM is pretty important to us.
But the question then is how do we make sure those lives; we increase our share of dispensing across both of our channels of distribution both within the PBM but also in the retail segment.
And clearly generics while the -- over time we are in the -- I cant say the peak of the generic introductions as we look forward theres still plenty of run were on for newer generic introductions over the next three to five years despite it being somewhat a slower pace than what it has been over the last year and half or so.
So all those components that we put in place are things that we look to drive value for our clients and for our members but also by profits for ourselves.
Yeah and Eric its Larry.
Just on the generic piece that Dave mentioned as we keep in mind we got $15 billion on average over the next three years $15 billion worth of branded product coming off patent.
And then just one additional point you mentioned the formulary and while thats got in a lot of discussion and with tension over the last couple of years what we refer to as our template formulary it has today about 50% penetration with clients.
So we continue to see opportunity for further adoption especially as clients will be looking for additional ways to reduce costs and then we talked about specialty earlier as a key growth driver as well.
Great and then if I could just circle back on the front end growth with was a little slower just wondering if you could characterize why that business is slower I appreciate the focus on profitability but if you would frame what's different in terms of the growth rate in the front end being a little bit slower.
Well Eric I dont know that there is anything new from what weve talked about in the past but I think that were continuing to see cautious consumers.
I think as you look across some of the external data available in the second quarter whether it's IMS or some of the other data it did show some consumer spending slow down in the quarter.
So I think it has to do as much about that as anything else.
Thats helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Eric.
Our next question comes from the line of John Ransom from Raymond James.
Please proceed.
Inc.</strong> Hi I just wanted to get into the weeds a little bit with specialty a couple of questions one is are you distributing more and more of your specialty drugs out of your retail locations or is it still primarily a mail order business do you see advantages to doing it more retail.
And then secondly I am curious about oncology because it's direct-to-physician drug it flows on the medical benefit and I just wondered if there is any emerging strategies that might to attain that [beast] just given all the drugs in the pipeline.
Thanks.
Yeah hi John this is John so specialty primarily is distributed by or specialty pharmacies via mail order.
There is some specialty revenue that flows through retail.
I talked earlier about our integrated specialty strategy which is really providing access for members across all 7 400 CVS retail locations but leveraging our clinical our billing and our fulfillment capabilities on the backend.
So we will be rolling that model out next year and in a pilot that weve done what weve seen is that about half of the patients like to have their specialty script mail to their home and about half of the patients like to pick up their specialty script at their local CVS pharmacy.
So we believe were going to be able to grow specialty fulfillment in retail but were not going to have to actually house the inventory in the retail stores because we want to deleveraging our back in and then were also going to leverage our billing and our clinical capabilities.
As far as oncology youre right thats a buy-and-bill that is done by the oncologist in their office.
I would say that it's not well managed today and the incentives are aligned for physicians to actually utilize the higher cost oncology medications.
So there are solutions that are in the market place that we have and others have where we look to realign the incentives for physicians and incentivize them to utilize the most cost effective combination of oncology drugs that that patient needs.
So that I am not sure in the near future you will see a movement away from that buy-and-bill model but I do think there is an opportunity to more effectively manage it.
Inc.</strong> I guess my other question are you seeing I mean I guess potentially by 15 or 16 we could be back into a pretty high top-line drug trend are clients focused on those and practically speaking I mean how much can you really help them take say a 9% drug trend and turn it into a 7% drug trend or something or what do you see as specialty comes to be the lions share of the growth and spend? Yeah John so when you think of drug trend you think of theres inflation theres utilization and then there is mix changes because of the new drug introduction so were actually seeing trends today around 20% so it clearly is becoming a very very high priority for our client.
And we have solutions that can help them manage it its utilization solutions its formulary solutions it's consolidating where they purchased their specialty products through our channels that provides them better economics.
So we believe there are a lot of solutions that take a higher level of sophistication than what we see in the commercial space but we've made significant investments and we believe we have best-in-class capabilities to enable our clients to more effectively manage this spend.
So we're very bullish in this space and believe that not only will it continue to grow but that our tools will distinguish us in the marketplace and allow us to grow disproportionally.
Inc.</strong> Thank you.
Thanks John.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan from RBC Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
Good morning.
Dave you mentioned the tail off and the operating profit in the PBM segment in the fourth quarter.
That was a good explanation there but I'm curious I think the offset mentioned there would be a ramp up in the operating profits on the retail that would offset that.
Could you talk just conceptually about what you expect to see specifically on the retail side in the fourth quarter? Thanks.
Good question.
I think as we continue to work from a retail perspective we continue to see very solid volume growth both was particularly within the pharmacy segment.
As you think about where we started this year and our expectation for script retention within the pharmacy business that continues to hold steady and we continue to drive performance there.
Also from a front store perspective we have been very diligent on managing I'll say volume and margin so as we pointed out during the call our front store margin continues to progress nicely.
We continue to obviously balance if you will the top line front store growth outlook with our expectations for margin.
So we continue to be more efficient across most of our outlook around the country.
I would say that one thing that's important to think about our business and we've talked about this in the past is we can continue to progress from a financial perspective very nicely with fairly modest I'll say 1% comp growth in the front of our business.
That consistency is probably more important than driving our market growth if you will.
I hope that helps Frank.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
Just a clarification.
Does the 1.7 billion in new PBM business does that include any adjustment for the Medicare losses that you mentioned? And then just secondarily maybe Jon can you speak anecdotally to what you found here what incremental work do you need to do for that CMS sanction to be lifted? I wonder why this might not have been identified at your first pass at this.
Yeah Bob it's Larry.
In terms of the business that we called out on both a gross and net basis that does not include the Medicare Part D business okay.
And in terms of the second question as we went and conducted our own audit okay of the success of the remediation efforts we did uncover some additional elements that need to be completed that insure that we have our systems and processes working at best-in-class levels.
And that's what we need to continue and to finish up on the remediation.
So it's that straightforward.
Okay thank you.
Okay.
We'll take two more questions please.
Our next question comes from the line of David Magee from SunTrust.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good morning.
Two questions.
First has to do with what you're seeing with the cost of consumer that you referenced earlier.
Are you seeing that situation getting any better at all as the year progresses and are you seeing any differences with regard to geography or demographics in that regard? And then my second question has to do with generic benefits being more muted in the second half of this year.
At what point next year do you expect that to swing positive again in terms of comparisons? Thank you.
Well why don't I start with the generics a little bit? As you said really what's happening here as you look back in really last year the back half of last year those break open generics accelerated so you saw that comp itself into the first half of this year.
So now we're facing pretty tough comparison in the back half.
I think as we think about moving forward there's still plenty of opportunities for break open generics over the next several years the timing of which quite frankly is probably a little too early to give you kind of a sense of specifically how '14 will shape up from that perspective kind of year-over-year.
But rest assured if you look ahead to the next two to five years generic introductions are still pretty robust despite the fact that we're in a peak at this point in time.
From a consumer perspective maybe I'll ask Mark to comment on that a bit.
Yeah so we are seeing some divergence of results based on where our stores are and most notable between lower income higher income areas where we see the most difference.
And it's most noticeable in those areas between  mostly on the front versus the pharmacy which tends to be more flat.
So we are doing some things in those lower income area to try to help the value perception and we'll begin lowering those out in the second half of this year.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Okay last question.
Our last question comes from the line of Meredith Adler from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
I guess I'd just like  two questions.
First is you talk about losing the 350 000 lives.
The remediation costs seem like they were noticeable in so far this year.
Do you expect that cost to continue at the same level or to be higher in the second half and are you likely to be any cost next year as well? Meredith this is Dave.
We haven't broken out those costs specifically.
I'll just say that all those costs are baked into our outlook for '13 and I think we're pretty confident that we have our hands around the cost spend for that.
But I guess as we cycle into '14 it's probably just a little too early at this point in time to give you some clarity around that specifically at this point.
But clearly as we said our expectation is to have the remediation effort complete if you will kind of nearly into the year so that would say that most of those costs would not continue.
Okay.
And then I have a question about reimbursement for generics.
I was recently talking to Walgreens and I know that they have chosen to sign slightly different contracts with payers in order to spread out the benefit from generics.
And so instead of being very very high in the front and then dropping very sharply at some point there were kind of spreading it out.
I think you guys have always said that the best profit comes when you have three suppliers but have you looked at all about smoothing out the benefit from generics in terms of gross margin? Meredith this is Larry.
We have  I think there's been a lot of dialogue around the use of I'll call it market basket or capped generic effective rates over the last 12 18 months and from a CVS pharmacy perspective we started using those a few years back.
And from our perspective not much has changed.
And I think that we continue to think about the cadence of generic reimbursement very consistent with how we [cross manage] in the past and how you mentioned it.
And I think it's important to note that despite the dialogue around these things this does create more predictability from a forecasting and a budgeting point of view.
It does not alleviate the fact that there continues to be ongoing reimbursement pressure across the business.
I guess I'm still not clear.
Did you say that you haven't made any changes at all you still sort of have this pattern of dropping at a certain point? Yeah.
Meredith I'm saying that  what's been talked about in the marketplace we started doing several years ago.
I see okay.
So from our perspective we haven't seen a change.
Got it okay.
And then my final question I think is for Jon.
There was a question before about managing the oncology spend and doctors [buy and build].
You had a program that you were working on that had to do with getting doctors to call a certain pathways and generally keeping their reimbursement at the same but encouraging them to use the lowest cost oncology treatment.
I was wondering if  you did mention it today and Im wondering if that test is still there and whether you feel like youre getting traction with physician is without getting a bit of pushback from them in terms of that program? Yeah Meredith so we still have that program.
Its out in the marketplace.
I would say that the payers are probably a little more reluctant to take on oncology and theyre focused on other areas that are less sensitive.
But we still believe that the oncology space needs a solution and we think the solution and the approach that were taking is the most prudent approach and delivers savings without creating patient and physician disruption.
So were still committed to that program.
And when you say the payers are attacking other things are you talking about mostly the pharmacy benefit or they also looking at other areas funded under the medical benefit? Yes theyre looking at both.
Both? So formulary and utilization programs across both pharmacy and medical benefits and theyre coming to ask and asking us to take our capabilities that weve demonstrated on the pharmacy side of the specialty spend and extend that into the medical spend.
So again its a capability that weve that we think not only make sure that the right drug gets utilized but the billing is appropriate medical claims systems dont have good edit  editing capabilities on them so we provide that editing capability and make sure that the appropriate charges are paid.
So lot of interest in the space.
Again half the spend is on the medical side and youre seeing specialty grow faster than any other part of the pharmacy business.
Great.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate the help.
Okay.
Thanks Meredith and let me just thank everyone for their time this morning and your interest in CVS Caremark and if there are any further questions which you have you can reach out to Nancy Christal.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you very much for standing by and welcome to the CVS Caremark third quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator instructions.] As a reminder todays conference is being recorded on Tuesday November 5 2013.
Is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal senior VP investor relations.
Please go ahead Ms.
Christal.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Im here this morning with Larry Merlo president and CEO who will provide a business update and Dave Denton executive vice president and CFO who will review our third quarter results and guidance.
John Roberts president of PBM is also with us today and will participate in the question and answer session following our prepared remarks.
Mark Cosby president of the retail business was planning to join us but is under the weather and not able to be here today.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow up so we can provide more callers with the chance to ask their questions.
I have one important reminder today on Wednesday December 18 well host our 2013 analyst day in New York City.
At that time well provide 2014 guidance and some longer term financial targets as well as a comprehensive update on our strategies for achieving those growth targets.
Youll have the opportunity to hear from several members of our senior management team about our PBM specialty retail and MinuteClinic businesses along with numerous enterprise wide initiatives that will capitalize on the evolving healthcare landscape and drive future growth.
If you didnt reply to your invitation please let us know if you plan to be there as space is filing up quickly.
The meeting will be webcast for those unable to attend in person but we do hope to see many of you there on December 18.
Turning to this mornings news we posted a slide presentation on our website just before this call which summarizes the information you will hear today as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
I encourage you to review the slides.
Additionally we plan to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q by the close of business today and it will be available through our website at that time.
During this call well use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our companys performance mainly free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always todays call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
Now before we continue our attorneys have asked me to read the Safe Harbor statement.
During this presentation well make certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
Accordingly for these forward-looking statements we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We strongly recommend that you become familiar with the specific risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our upcoming quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
And now Ill turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
Now given that our analyst day is next month our business update this morning will be brief.
However I do want to take some time to cover some of the topics that I know are top of mind in the marketplace such as the impact of the Affordable Care Act.
But before we get to that lets kick things off with todays earnings because were pleased to report that we posted solid third quarter results across the enterprise.
Overall operating profit increased more than 15% with the PBM and retail businesses growing approximately 28% and 8% respectively.
And its important to note that excludes the benefit from a legal settlement that was finalized during the third quarter.
That settlement related to a prescription drug antitrust lawsuit with a drug manufacturer.
We recorded a $72 million gain within operating expenses which equates to a $0.04 per share benefit in Q3.
Now that said adjusted earnings per share excluding the legal settlement came in at $1.05 for the quarter and thats $0.02 above the high end of our guidance.
We also generated a substantial amount of free cash and year to date the total now stands at $3.1 billion and consistent with our goal at the beginning of the year we remain committed to returning about $5 billion to our shareholders this year through both dividends and share repurchases.
Considering our strong operating results to date along with our outlook for the remainder of the year we are raising and narrowing our earnings guidance for full year 13 to a range of $3.94 to $3.97 and thats a change from our previous range of $3.90 to $3.96.
And again thats excluding the $0.04 benefit from the legal settlement.
Dave will discuss our results and guidance in more detail during his financial review.
With that let me address some of the topics of interest that I alluded to earlier.
I think as everyone knows the healthcare environment is changing rapidly and there are certainly a number of moving parts from the Affordable Care Act to the private exchanges and collectively we expect changes within this environment to be a net positive for our business in 2014.
So let me walk you through the multiple ways that well continue to grow our business in this evolving landscape.
First well participate in coverage expansion and the public exchanges as well as Medicaid.
Second well participate in the private exchange market for both active employees and retirees.
And I think its important to remember that our opportunities to participate are not limited to just our PBM but span across our entire enterprise to include both our retail pharmacies along with our MinuteClinic businesses.
So lets drill down a little further through our PBM because well participate in the public exchanges through our health plan clients on a carve-in basis where the health plan offers integrated medical and pharmacy benefits and we provide the PBM services.
In fact our health plan client footprint spans 25 states covering nearly 70% of the eligible exchange population.
In addition as the number one PBM player in the managed Medicaid space were also very well positioned to gain share through Medicaid expansion and we certainly understand what these clients require.
Moving to the private exchanges well participate through both a carve-in basis - again through our health plan clients - as well as on a carve-out basis as a standalone PBM where we have direct prescription benefit offerings on the exchange products.
And we are well-positioned to win lives on the exchanges given our unique products and services as well as our trusted brand and name recognition.
Within the private exchanges well also play an important role in providing coverage to retirees through our Silver Script prescription drug plan as well as our health plan clients PDP and MAPD businesses.
Now theres certainly been a lot of speculation about what various employers are going to do with their populations recognizing and acknowledging that large employers cannot participate on the public exchanges until 2017.
Well the fact is that less than 1% of covered lives are expected to move to private exchange products in 2014.
And based on conversations we have had with our PBM clients and private exchange partners we believe that most large employers are taking a wait and see approach to private exchanges particularly with their active employees.
Now we recently had a meeting with our client advisory group and they told us that they feel they can manage costs effectively in their own environment while still maintaining both control and flexibility.
That said large employers may consider moving their retirees to the exchanges over time and we may see more movement to private exchanges by smaller employers over the next few years because the exchanges do offer a way to reduce administrative burdens.
However I want to emphasize the point that we are very well positioned to gain lives and market share in the exchange products.
Recently you have also been asking about the impact all of this will have on PBM margins.
And as weve stated previously we do expect to see some churn in PBM lives as some members may move from the employer bucket to the health plan bucket and although this may result in margin compression in some instances we expect this will be mitigated by cost management tools such as narrow networks our proprietary Maintenance Choice offering narrow formularies step therapies and the list goes on.
And as a result we do not expect a material impact on PBM margins in the foreseeable future.
In addition to tighter pharmacy management tools we also expect share gains from both market expansion and market churn as an additional lever to help offset PBM margin compression.
And as I mentioned again were well-positioned to win lives on the exchanges given our unique products and services along with our trusted brand and name recognition.
Now I also mentioned its important to remember that the opportunities from healthcare reform go well beyond our PBM because our consumer expertise in the new business to consumer world of healthcare is being welcomed by health plans across the country and leveraging our retail footprint we can support healthcare marketing initiatives ranging from limited pilot marketing programs to full-scale educational programs.
In fact over the next six months we expect health plans to host more than 6 000 marketing events in more than 1 000 of our stores across 20 states.
Some of these health plan partnerships also include participation in preferred or restricted retail pharmacy networks and many are taking advantage of the convenient and affordable MinuteClinic services as well as cost-saving PBM services and programs to better manage the specialty pharmacy segment.
And on top of these opportunities our retail business will obviously benefit from the expansion of coverage along with our ability to drive incremental scripts through our fixed retail cost structure.
So while there are a lot of moving parts all things considered were very well positioned and well certainly provide more specific context around our assumptions for the newly covered lives and pharmacy utilization that we expect from reform when we provide our guidance next month at analyst day.
So with that let me quickly review some highlights on the PBM business.
Weve had a strong 2014 selling season despite the fact that the number of RFPs were down year over year.
To date weve completed 75% of renewals and we have a retention rate of 96%.
Our gross sales wins currently total $5.1 billion with net new business of about $1.8 billion.
And remember that this net new business excludes any impact from attrition in our Medicare Part D PDP business.
Now with regard to the sanction imposed by CMS earlier this year as weve talked about previously it has prevented us from marketing our Silver Script PDP or enrolling new members.
And recall that the sanction primarily affects our individual Silver Script prescription drug product.
Today we have about 3.3 million Silver Script lives and we expect to have roughly 3 million lives in our individual Silver Script PDP by the end of January 14.
On our last call we said that we expected our remediation efforts to be complete sometime near the end of the year and we expect to meet that target.
And once complete the next step will be for CMS to conduct its review to determine whether the issues have been fixed are not likely to recur and ultimately CMS will determine when the sanction will be lifted.
While were obviously disappointed that we have not been able to participate in the open enrollment period it is important to remember that we still see significant opportunity to grow our Med D business over the long term.
And we believe that the changes that we have made to strengthen the Med D management team along with the remediation steps that weve taken will allow us to do just that.
Now on the heels of a successful 2014 selling season in our commercial PBM business work has already begun on the 2015 selling season and as all of you know we have a long term strategic agreement with Aetna to provide their PBM services.
And Im happy to report that we have successfully completed the 2015 market check with Aetna and we look forward to continuing our strong and mutually beneficial relationship.
Im also very pleased that we have successfully completed the migration of Aetnas commercial business to the CVS Caremark platform.
Thats pretty significant since it means that more clients will have access to CVS Caremarks differentiated offerings.
Our joint efforts with the Aetna sales team have been successful to date with numerous clients adopting our unique offerings like Maintenance Choice like Pharmacy Advisor and were also working closely with Aetna to implement and administer their exchange offerings and other government programs resulting from the Affordable Care Act.
Now turning to our specialty business growth was strong.
Revenues up approximately 22% year over year.
This growth was driven by drug price inflation utilization new product launches and new PBM clients.
At our recent client forum many of our clients expressed concerns about the rapid growth in specialty pharmacy costs and they are increasingly open to new ideas and solutions that address the escalating growth in specialty and we certainly view this as a significant opportunity.
And youll hear more about our strategies to help clients manage the specialty trend next month at analyst day.
Moving on to the retail business we had another solid quarter.
Total same-store sales increased 3.6% while pharmacy same-store sales increased a very healthy 5.7%.
Pharmacy same-store sales were negatively impacted by about 320 basis points due to recent generic introductions and thats about half of the 670 basis point impact that we saw in Q2.
Pharmacy same-store scripts increased 1.4% when counting 90-day scripts as one.
It increased 4.5% on a 30-day equivalent basis.
And we have seen a greater than historical rate of conversion to 90-day from 30-day scripts.
And thats being driven by the continued strong growth in our Maintenance Choice programs.
Im also pleased to report that the retention of scripts gained during last years impasse between Walgreens and Express Scripts continues to exceed our expectations.
As you know our goal was to retain at least 60% of those scripts this year and we are ahead of that goal.
As for the front store business comps decreased 1% reflecting a decline in traffic.
At the same time we saw continued increase in basket size as well as modestly higher front store margins.
Our ExtraCare loyalty card continues to enable us to personalize our offers creating more value for customers and gaining a bigger share of their wallet.
In fact this quarter we launched the My Weekly ad a first of its kind personalized digital circular experience that taps into ExtraCare insights.
And the My Weekly ad provides a unique weekly circular for every customer thats geared to their shopping preferences saving them both time and money.
We hope youll log on and give it a try and well speak more about this on analyst day.
As for new stores we opened 71 new or relocated stores closed one during the quarter resulting 48 net new stores in Q3 and this keeps us on track to achieve our 2-3% square footage growth target for the year.
Let me turn briefly to MinuteClinic which posted a revenue growth of 18% versus last years third quarter.
We opened 42 net new clinics in the quarter including clinics in two new states Hawaii and Louisiana ending Q3 with 726 clinics in 27 states and the District of Columbia.
And our long term goal is to create a platform that supports primary care by providing integrated high-quality care that is convenient accessible and affordable.
And well talk more about that next month as well.
With that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
Before turning to our results and our guidance I want to highlight how our disciplined capital allocation program continues to enhance shareholder value.
And during the third quarter we paid approximately $276 million in dividends bringing our year to date payout to $829 million.
Additionally we repurchased approximately 25.8 million shares for $1.5 billion in the quarter at an average price of $58.98 per share.
Year to date weve repurchased 39.6 million shares for approximately $2.3 billion again at an average price of $57.33.
As you can see the pace of buybacks accelerated throughout the third quarter and we remain on track to complete approximately $4 billion of share repurchase in 13 which is also included in our guidance.
So between dividends and share repurchases we have returned more than $3.1 billion to our shareholders through the first three quarters of this year alone and we continue to expect to return approximately $5 billion for the full year.
Weve also generated approximately $3.1 billion of free cash flow through September of this year.
Improving our cash generation capabilities through improved working capital management remains an area of focus for us.
And over the past several years weve made excellent progress in reducing our cash cycle.
As previously noted we have some timing issues with respect to CMS payables and receivables that may affect our working capital and delivery of free cash flow for the year.
Even so we are maintaining our guidance of free cash flow of between $4.8 billion and $5.1 billion this year while we work to offset this headwind to our target.
As for the income statement third quarter adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.05 per share was approximately $0.02 above the high end of our guidance after removing the pre-tax gain of $72 million from the legal settlement.
GAAP diluted EPS was $1.03 per share including the $0.04 from the legal settlement.
Earnings were higher than expected primarily due to the outperformance in the PBM a favorable tax rate and a weighted average share count that was slightly lower than planned.
Now let me quickly walk you through our results.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the third quarter increased 5.8% or approximately $1.7 billion to $32 billion.
This exceeded the top of our guidance range again driven by the PBM.
PBM net revenues increased 7.8% or approximately $1.4 billion to $19.5 billion.
This growth was more than 225 basis points above the high end of our guidance and was driven by higher than anticipated claims volume primarily from Maintenance Choice as well as higher inflation within our specialty business.
Script utilization trends were consistent with prior periods and we saw increased utilization of the retail network and in Maintenance Choice claims offset by declining trends in core mail order.
Claims growth year over year was driven by net new client wins and increased membership within our existing book of business.
Specialty pharmacy was also a key driver.
Slightly offsetting these positive revenue drivers was a strong GDR which is obviously good for the bottom line.
The PBMs generic dispensing rate increased 170 basis points versus the same quarter of last year to 81%.
Note that starting with Q1 of this year the sequential year over year rate of increase continues to slow from the high point of approximately 500 basis points in Q4 of last year to 170 basis points this quarter.
This trend is expected to continue throughout Q4 of this year given that fewer generic conversions are expected for the remainder of this year versus last year.
Revenues in the retail business increased 5% in the quarter or approximately $780 million to $16.3 billion.
As with the PBM Maintenance Choice adoption was better than expected and helped drive overall performance to near the higher end of expectations.
Like the PBM new generic introductions negatively impacted retail sales with our retail GDR increasing approximately 160 basis points versus the third quarter of 12 to 81.5%.
Now turning to gross margins we reported 18.9% for the consolidated company in the quarter an increase of approximately 20 basis points compared to Q3 of 12.
Within the PBM segment gross margins increased by approximately 65 basis points versus the second quarter of last year to 6.6% while gross profit dollars increased approximately 20% year over year.
The increase in margin rate year over year was primarily driven by better acquisition cost rebate economics timing of our Medicare Part D PDP margins as well as the increase in GDR.
The increase in margin dollars was driven by higher volumes from new clients and new members and higher specialty volumes versus the third quarter of last year as well as the shift of Medicare Part D profitability from Q4 into Q3 of this year.
These positive drivers were partially offset by price compression as well as remediation and operating costs within our Medicare Part D business.
Gross margin for the retail segment was 30% down about 15 basis points from last year while gross profit dollars increased 4.5% year over year.
Given that pharmacy growth was stronger than front store growth in the quarter pharmacy revenues as a percentage of total retail revenues increased by about 135 basis points.
This shift in the business mix was the main driver of the climb in the overall retail margin rate since gross margins in the pharmacy business are lower than that in the front.
Partially offsetting this was the increase in GDR as the continued increase in front store margins.
Excluding the positive impact of the legal settlement total consolidated operating expenses as a percentage of revenues improved versus the third quarter of 12 by approximately 35 basis points to 12.3% while total SG&amp;A dollars grew by 2.9%.
The PBM segment SG&amp;A rate improved by about 15 basis points to 1.5% excluding the benefit of the $11 million settlement.
PBM expenses declined approximately $4 million from the third quarter of last year and this reflects reduced spending on the streamlining initiative as the project nears completion.
In the retail segment solid expense control resulted in an improvement in SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales of 40 basis points to 21.3% excluding the $61 million from the legal settlement.
Overall retail SG&amp;A expenses grew by about 3.1%.
Within the corporate segment expenses increased by approximately $10 million to $179 million.
As a percentage of consolidated revenues operating expenses were flat.
Adding it all up and excluding the impact of the legal settlement operating margins for the total enterprise improved approximately 55 basis points to 6.5%.
Operating margins in the PBM improved 80 basis points to 5.1% while operating margin at retail improved by 25 basis points to 8.7%.
For the quarter we were comfortably within the high end of our guidance for operating profit growth in the retail segment while we exceeded our expectations in the PBM.
Excluding the benefit from the legal segment retail operating profit increased a very healthy 8.2% while PBM operating profits increased a very strong 27.7%.
Going below the line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter declined approximately $12 million from last quarter to $122 million.
The debt refinancing we did in the fourth quarter of last year continues to be the primary driver of the year over year decrease each quarter.
Additionally our effective tax rate was 38.2% which was slightly better than we expected and our weighted average share count was slightly lower than anticipated at about $1.23 billion shares for the quarter.
So now let me turn to our 2013 guidance which we both raised and narrowed this morning.
Excluding the impact of the legal settlement in the third quarter we currently expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share of $3.94 to $3.97 for 2013 reflecting strong year over year growth of 14.75% to 15.75% after removing the impact in 2012 of the early extinguishment of debt to make the numbers more comparable.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $3.73 to $3.76 per share.
Our revised guidance reflects our solid performance for the first nine months of this year as well as our confidence in our outlook.
Embedded in this guidance are share repurchases totaling approximately $4 billion for the year including shares from a $1.7 billion accelerated share repurchase program that we began on October 1.
The details of the program will be available in our 10-Q which will be filed later today.
Now let me walk you through our fourth quarter guidance.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.09 per share to $1.12 per share down 1.5% to 4.25% from Q4 of 12 after removing the impact from last years fourth quarter resulting from the early extinguishment of debt.
GAAP EPS from continuing operations is expected to in the range of $1.03 per share to $1.06 per share.
As I said on our last quarterly call we expect the fourth quarter to be somewhat atypical this year driven mostly by the timing of break open generics and by Med D profits in the PBM.
With respect to Medicare Part D as I noted on our last earnings call we are seeing a shift of profitability within the business from Q4 which has historically been our most profitable Med D quarter into Q3.
A number of factors are affecting this predominantly changes in earned rebates and the mix of the business across our Silver Script Choice versus our Silver Script Basic plan as well as the impact of the sanction.
As such we expect the PBM segments operating profit to decline by 15% to 18% in the fourth quarter.
We expect the retail segments operating profit to increase 2.75% to 4.5% in the quarter driven by gains in both the front store as well as the pharmacy.
For the PBM segment we expect revenues to increase 3.5% to 5% for the fourth quarter and adjusted claims to be between $262 million and $265 million.
For the retail segment we expect revenue to increase 3.5% to 5% with same-store sales to increase 2.25% to 3.75%.
Same-store scripts are expected to increase 0.5% to 1.5% while adjusted script comps are forecasted to be between 3% and 4%.
And now as a result for the total enterprise in the quarter we expect revenues to be up approximately 2.75% to 4.25% from the fourth quarter of 12.
This is after intercompany eliminations which are projected to equal about 10.6% of combined segment revenues.
For the total company gross profit margins are expected to be down significantly from last years fourth quarter as both the retail and PBM segments will experience contraction.
Expectations are that gross margin in the retail segment will be notably down due to fewer new generics available to offset continued reimbursement pressure.
Gross margins in the PBM segment will be significantly down due in large part to the timing of Medicare Part D profitability but also due to fewer break open new generics to offset pricing pressures.
These trends are occurring as expected as we lap a large amount of break open generics in 2012.
For the total company operating expenses as a percentage of revenues are expected to moderately improve in the fourth quarter.
PBM operating expenses should show modest improvement driven in part by a reduction of streamlining costs year over year.
Retail expense leverage should notably improve and upturn from recent trends largely due to the fact that there are fewer new generics and therefore less deleveraging of expenses.
And we expect operating expenses from the corporate segment to be between $190 million and $195 million.
We expect operating margin for the total company in the quarter to be down 60 to 70 basis points from last years fourth quarter.
We expect net interest expense of between $130 million and $135 million and a tax rate of approximately 39% in the fourth quarter.
We anticipate that we will have approximately 1.2 billion weighted average shares for the quarter which would imply approximately 1.23 billion for the year.
And as I said we continue to expect to generate free cash flow in the range of $4.8 billion to $5.1 billion and we remain focused on using our strong free cash flow to drive shareholder value now as well as into the future.
And with that I will turn it back over to Larry Merlo.
Thanks Dave.
And just to sum things up obviously were pleased with our strong third quarter results and optimistic about the outlook for this year and next.
We see the evolving healthcare environment as an opportunity for growth and we believe were very well positioned to gain market share across the enterprise.
So with that lets go ahead and open it up for your questions.
[Operator instructions.] Our first question comes from the line of Robert Jones from Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
A lot of good detail on the PBM side so I thought maybe Id start off on the front end.
Same-store sales down again this quarter and I know youre citing softer traffic.
I was wondering if you could just maybe share some color on whether you think this has been more macro-driven or is there some competitive changes going on that are driving a little softness on the front end? We have discussed in the past that we continue to see a cautious consumer.
We did see some pullback in consumer spending that began in the spring timeframe.
Its manifesting itself in fewer trips.
At the same time we have seen the promotional environment intensify in both the drug and mass channels.
At the same time we have not made dramatic changes in our promotional strategy.
As a matter of fact if you look at our year over year promotional circular page count in the third quarter it was actually down 12%.
And we continue to use ExtraCare as our point of differentiation along with delivering a way to create value for consumers.
And we have been able to drive the basket size of our customers.
And as Dave mentioned in his remarks its also important to point out that through these efforts weve been able to achieve margin expansion.
So I think on the front store sales issue its always a bit of art and science trial and error.
Mark and his retail team are certainly focused on it.
We would like our front store comps to be better but well be very disciplined about not chasing empty sales.
That makes a lot of sense.
And Larry I know you talked about a lot of the major topics in the sector specifically the exchanges.
And obviously look forward to getting more detail on that at the analyst day but one of the other major topics as of late has been agreements across the supply chain as far as consolidating generic purchasing.
Im just wondering if you could weigh in given some of the activity as of late as far as your view of your current positioning in generic sourcing and whether or not you think in light of some of these moves that you would be interested in trying to garner more scale.
Our position has really not changed since we discussed this on our last call.
A generic sourcing alliance could present an interesting opportunity.
Were certainly always open to learning and evaluating opportunities in the marketplace and if we were to determine that an alliance could drive higher returns for us wed certainly consider that.
And we believe that we could do that without expending significant capital.
So well continue to watch it and there may be some incremental opportunities domestically but we still see the global sourcing environment less clear but again well be open to opportunities.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Bob Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed.
In light of how fast the CVS share of the Caremark accounts has grown over the past few years does it make sense to offer any type of quarterly update where you think your share stands and to offer any targets where that could go over the next couple of years? Good question.
As you know we have seen substantial growth in share within CVS within the Caremark book.
I think over the past few years weve moved from roughly 18% to in excess of 31% at this point in time.
My guess is those are longer term movement trends.
So probably quarter by quarter it might not make the most sense.
Probably year over year is probably a more comparable perspective.
So youll probably see a little bit of that as we cycle into analyst day coming up here.
Its a great question.
I think it does make sense to look at it on an annual basis.
And to Daves point keep in mind that that retail percent of the Caremark book of business while its grown the pie has also grown at the same time.
There have been north of $25 billion worth of new business wins during that period of time.
Any three year target per chance? Not at this point.
Continuing on next question is from Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Can you give us any color on the share in the retail business now that is transitioning from 30- to 90-day? Where you think that might go and how you are running the business or managing capacity in the stores differently as that has taken place? We have seen it grow for some time now.
Acknowledging growth off of a smaller base but it has been growing north of 20%.
And I think that there are a lot of variables in play that are driving that growth.
Ill start with Maintenance Choice but there are also more plan designs out there that have 90-day options at retail and theres been a lot of information out there that 90-day prescriptions also improve medication adherence.
So I think that that well continue to see a disproportionate growth and an acceleration from 30 to 90.
Obviously on the retail side we have always done an effective job of managing SG&amp;A at the store level.
And the labor models that we have built along with our workflow in the pharmacy enable us to flex our labor according to those volumes.
And there are some labor efficiencies to be picked up there.
And then secondly you talked about restricted or preferred networks.
Just curious what youre seeing take place and what youre facilitating through Caremark and what youre seeing take place in the market in terms of the appetite and adoption and utilization of preferred or narrowed networks on the retail front as we move into 2014.
Weve clearly seen the growth of preferred networks in Medicare.
Got off to a slow start when Medicare was first implemented but youve seen a lot of movement particularly over the last couple of years.
In Medicaid were seeing restricted networks in the managed Medicaid space.
We think that continues to be something that this segment will be interested in.
And in the employer space youve seen - and Dave talked about our growth of Maintenance Choice which is a form of a narrow network - interest from employers.
I would say this year probably less interest because employers were more focused on healthcare reform changes they needed to make within their own book of business.
But its interesting that health plans that historically have not been interested in narrow networks were seeing a lot of interest particularly around their exchange offerings.
So weve had several health plans adopt narrow networks for their public exchange offerings.
So we think it continues to be an opportunity for plans and clients to save money through either preferred or restricted networks.
So we continue to see good growth opportunities in this area.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
First on Maintenance Choice any comment on the relative growth rates of 2.0 and 1.0? And how much time do you think it takes for 2.0 to start then customers migrating from 2.0 to 1.0? Will that be one full contract cycle? Or shorter? Longer? What are your thoughts on that? Well touch on this more at analyst day but we have seen some adoption on 2.0.
I think certainly as weve talked we see an opportunity to when you look at 1.0 and 2.0 the opportunity to cover more than 30 million lives over time I think we see an adoption track where a client gets into 2.0 and then ultimately migrates in to 1.0 to maximize the savings.
But well hit more of the metrics in December.
And then secondly thinking about the front end and My Weekly ad if you could segment traffic by loyalty of customer - I dont know if you would do a decile or a quartile or whatever - is traffic down among the most loyal customers? Or is it down more among the least loyal so maybe some of that is by your design? And then over time as My Weekly ad gets greater adoption what does that do to traffic and is that a significant incremental positive to margin as youre maybe wasting less promotional dollars? Those are two great questions.
If you look at our traffic through segmentation we would see more of the declines among our least loyal customers.
We continue to see growth in our most loyal customers.
I think directionally youre spot on in terms of the reality of as we migrate over time and reduce our dependency on the weekly circular there is certainly an opportunity to deliver value to our ExtraCare members and create a high level of satisfaction and a bigger share of wallet  And by the way the My Weekly circular just becomes one more tool.
Thats not going to be the single conduit that drives that behavior.
It will be that in addition to many of the other attributes that ExtraCare offers the consumer.
Well when you did ExtraCare that helped growth right? Will My Weekly ad help to the same degree or not as much? Its early.
Were experimenting with it now.
And thats something that well be able to talk about over time.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler from Barclays.
Please proceed.
Id like to just go back a little bit to the discussion about the private exchanges and you talk about some being carve-in of pharmacy benefit and some being carve-out.
Do you have any sense of kind of what percentage is going to be carve-in and what is going to be carve-out? And then also related to that is there a difference in profitability when its carve-out versus carve-in? Ill take the first part of that.
Acknowledging that A) its early B) its a small sample size.
But you know what we have seen is a trend that really looks at the historical preference of the clients.
And by that I mean if the employer had pharmacy as a carve-out option then theyre going onto a private exchange product that continues to carve out pharmacy and vice versa.
If they have pharmacy carved in with their health plan then theyre migrating to a carve-in product.
And again its a limited sample but thats what weve seen to date.
And then on the profitability its really a function of what programs they adopt that really drives profitability.
So it lowers their cost but drives our profitability.
Programs like mail formulary network programs and others.
And we think with the consumer making that choice theyre going to be more likely to make those selections for themselves.
Right.
And then switching gears a question back to the discussion of the front end I dont think youre ever going to eliminate the circular the one that isnt tied to the loyalty card or the individual but can you conceive of it being much less promotional and more kind of like an EDLP circular? I mean there are other retailers who highlight their good deals every day but not necessarily being focused on promotional items.
I think that you are right.
I dont think any of us see the circular going completely away.
And I think that it will evolve over the next few years.
I can see it being smaller.
I can see it being more focused.
Exactly what shape and form that takes I think is probably still an open question.
I mean we know that just because of the viewership or the readership of the newspaper circular distribution is down from what it was five years ago.
And so I think directionally youre correct with your hypothesis.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Larry thank you very much for all the comments on the public and private exchanges but Im actually going to ask a question around Medicare Part D.
When you look at your now guidance of roughly 3 million members versus 3.3 million before is that roughly in line with the 350 000 that you talked about last time? And secondly anything youre seeing in the open enrollment period that would change any of your thoughts around that going into next year? In response to your first question it is consistent with what we talked about on our last call in terms of the attrition of about 350 000 lives.
And its early in open enrollment but we have not seen anything that is contradictory to what weve talked about.
And then secondly can you maybe just give us an update on where you are on RDS and conversion from RDS? Clearly the tax benefit goes away in 2014.
And based on the sanctions that you have can you just remind us if theres any impact at all of moving people potentially to an EGWP or any other programs as they shift away from RDS? We saw most employers focused on healthcare reform this year so most of the movement to EGWPs happened the year before.
We think there will be a pickup in activity this year.
Our plan would be out of sanction so we believe that well be able to implement anyone that wants to move into an EGWP product moving forward.
The other thing I would mention is that we have been operating under a waiver from CMS to continue to enroll EGWP members that we had commitments to prior to the sanction.
So that has been ongoing.
That waiver has been extended through January of 14.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
I had a quick housekeeping item and then I wanted to get to my questions.
Flu shots is that in your script number or not? I cant remember.
Flu shots we do treat as a prescription.
And Ill call it season to date The season kicks off in the August timeframe and what Im going to share with you probably goes through near the end of October.
But weve administered just over 3 million flu shots across our retail business and MinuteClinic.
And thats up from last year.
The second question I have really goes to the outlook for the PBM.
You guys talked about market share and that you feel like you can kind of with the new environment gain market share.
It seems to me as we look at Medicaid I think youre 31% of that bus.
Its grown quite a bit so I want to understand can that go higher? Also you commented that youre in 25 states with the exchanges.
Can you get to more states? Can 70% become 90%? And then the final question about next year as we have some big contracts out like Tricare whats your confidence that youll continue to gain share on the PBM side of the business in those three different buckets? In terms of Medicaid and I think specifically youre talking about the managed Medicaid environment.
And youre right we have about 30% share of the managed Medicaid market.
We certainly see more room for growth there.
Were estimating that the managed Medicaid market is going to grow by about 40% between now and 2016.
So we see that again as a driver for growth.
As far as were in 25 states with 70% as we continue to win in the marketplace and win health plans which we had some wins this year well continue to expand our footprint.
And just as far as winning across all segments as Larry mentioned earlier for the 2014 selling season we got over $5 billion in gross wins with 96% retention.
If you look back over the last several years weve continued to be very successful selling.
Our integrated model continues to resonate in the marketplace with Maintenance Choice Pharmacy Advisor our integrated specialty capabilities were launching what were able to do for our clients with MinuteClinic.
So were very bullish on our growth opportunities moving forward.
And then one final follow up is if you continue to gain share like you have been which is driving a tremendous amount of traffic into your assets particularly your retail assets and I know youre doing the promotional stuff but Larry weve talked about how do you get the incremental sales in a profitable way? It seems like theres a tremendous untapped opportunity to take that traffic and convert it to some front end sales.
Any other color on how we get that done? First of all I agree with you and as I mentioned earlier I think it was the first question that our retail team is working hard to improve our comp sales performance.
And I think some of what youre describing lies in innovation and trial and error and weve got a talented team focused on it and well continue to work and ultimately crack the code on that.
Our next question comes from Mark Wiltamuth from Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Wanted to ask a little bit about the specialty pharma environment.
And I know you have a pilot going there to kind of join the CVS brick and mortar stores with the mail operations on specialty.
If you could give us an update on whats going on there and how you think that will evolve as the specialty trends continue to grow.
If you think of specialty today and you think about it from an access to a member perspective its primarily a mail channel today.
What weve been able to do is take all of our specialty capabilities and connect them to our retail stores.
So now members that want to get access to specialty medications can go in any one of our 7 400 stores as we roll this program out next year.
Well leverage all of the back-end clinical capabilities the billing capabilities the fulfillment capabilities and then well be able to deliver that prescription either to the members home like happens today with specialty pharmacy or deliver it to their local CVS Pharmacy.
And its interesting very similar to Maintenance Choice half the people want to pick up their specialty prescription in their CVS local store the other half want it mailed to their home.
When you think about it from a pharma perspective historically adherence levels for specialty medications have been lower in the retail channel than in the specialty channel.
In our pilots weve been able to achieve the same levels of adherence through the integrated specialty offering that we have in mail.
So we think pharmas going to be pretty bullish on this capability.
So were improving access were achieving very high adherence levels and were delivering all the clinical capabilities that these patients need with the convenience that were able to offer through an integrated offering.
And is the bigger win capturing more prescriptions at the local pharmacy or is it just the convenience of delivery for the consumer? Well I think about it in probably two parts.
One is we think because well have a differentiated offering again it adds to our value proposition as were out trying to win new clients.
Secondly there is a segment of the population that is open.
Medicare is an example where the patient has choice where they get their specialty prescription filled.
So we think we have a better value proposition for those patients so we think we will capture more share of that open business.
And I think the only other point that I would make is that we can make it a seamless experience across all of the stakeholders that are involved here to include the physician.
Continuing on our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Maybe first just going back to all the stuff you laid out re reform.
Do you feel like the more you continue to dig into this and obviously theres a lot of things changing and a lot of unknowns but do you feel like the integrated model you continue to figure out sort of new services new offerings new potential profit drivers as things change and you really sort of have a structural advantage there having the full suite of capabilities versus maybe some of your peers? I think you said it very well.
I dont know that theres a whole lot I would add to that other than agreeing with you.
And I think it gets back to what weve talked about many many times that if you think about from the PBM perspective that its largely been a B2B bus and if you think about the new world order adding B2C segment weve got expertise in both.
And I think that thats how were uniquely positioned to gain share acknowledging that we are going to go through a period of churn in terms of whos sponsoring the coverage.
But we feel that were well-positioned and that whether youre talking about our PBM assets our retail assets our MinuteClinic assets I guess you guys have done a good job of educating us.
Maybe just quickly on the selling season if you look at some of the net losses could you maybe just sort of tick through how much of that was sort of acquisition and if not in terms of the update from Q2 what were the key reasons where you saw maybe the business move away from you? The numbers that we gave to include the retention does reflect the net impact of acquisition activity.
And recognizing that we pick up some from acquisitions and we lose some.
But acquisition activity posed a headwind for us in terms of the impact of that.
And Ill let Jon talk about it from a client perspective.
Its a very sticky business.
Weve got retention at 96% you add on top of that the $5 billion in new wins.
Youre always going to see some movement as people go out and evaluate the market but weve been very happy with our ability to retain customers.
And with that 96% retention including some of the acquisitions that are moving away from us like Amerigroup.
Well take two more questions please.
Certainly sir.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Hey good morning.
This is Zach [Sacheck] for Ricky.
Just had a question on your Medicare Part D preferred network.
Weve seen a proliferation in the number of Part D networks.
I was wondering if you could talk about your offering for 2014 and how it compares to some of your competitors in the preferred network area.
We have a preferred network.
Its very similar to what we had this year.
Its about 25 000 pharmacies where theyll get advantages.
The member will have a lower copay if they go to a preferred pharmacy.
And then we wrap the balance of the network around that so that we have the full suite of 65 000 pharmacies participating in it.
But its been very successful and weve created enough copay differential to drive pretty good share into those preferred pharmacies so were very happy with the performance of that preferred network.
And its allowed us to offer a very competitive product in the marketplace that will help us continue to grow as we move forward.
Also keep in mind if we use Aetna as the example that we have an Aetna preferred Med D product out in the marketplace that were supporting them on as well.
And then just a quick question on Minute Clinic.
Of the 18% revenue growth you talked about I was wondering if you would be willing to break down how much of that was organic versus new store growth? And then if you could talk at all about how the payer mix might have evolved over the course of the year? I dont know them off the top of my head but weve been comping if you look at it from a comp perspective in the teens to low 20s most recently in MinuteClinic.
And your second question in terms of payer mix we have continued to see a high rate of adoption from health plans and even government sponsored programs.
And if you look at MinuteClinic visits now that have some type of insurance copay tied to it if you will that number is now in the mid-80s.
And our last question comes from the line of David Magee from SunTrust.
Please proceed with your question.
First question just on the specialty pharma you called out inflation as being a factor and I was curious if you could quantify that and specify whether thats sort of in line with the trend or are we seeing sort of a sustainable trend change there.
Especially inflations been pretty consistent over the last several years so its generally 8% to 10%.
You have to add on top of that mix though as new drugs come to the market theyre fairly expensive and then utilization is the third component.
So that translates into trend or cost increases that our clients are seeing that are in the high teens low 20s and clearly managing this area has become our clients top priority.
And well talk more about what were doing in this area on analyst day.
Do you have market share numbers on that bus year over year? I dont have that with me.
Well probably touch a little bit on that at analyst day as well.
My last question has to do with the promotional environment that you anticipate on the front end.
Have you sort of baked in a significantly more promotional environment this year relative to last year as it relates to the holidays? Or how do you view that at this time? As Larry indicated before we have seen the promotional environment increase over the last several months.
I would say that while that has occurred in the marketplace we have been pretty diligent in our approach to this.
We have not really changed our promotional posture much.
Id say we continue to use our loyalty card program to drive performance for us and to make sure that theres a good balance between whats happening from a front store sales perspective but also quite frankly whats happening from a margin perspective.
And weve been consistently kind of growing our front store margin rate.
And again theres a balance there that well watch closely.
So let me just thank everybody for joining us this morning along with your interest in CVS Caremark.
And we will look forward to seeing many of you next month at our analyst day in New York.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the CVS Caremark Q1 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Friday May 02 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead Maam Thanks Matt.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I am here this morning with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will review our first quarter results as well as guidance for the second quarter and year.
Jon Roberts President of PBM and Helena Foulkes President of the Retail Business are also with us today and will participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow-up so we can provide more callers with the chance to ask a question.
Please note that just before this call we posted a slide presentation on our website that summarizes the information you will hear today as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
Additionally please note that our quarterly report on Form 10-Q will be filed by the close of business today and it will be available on our website at that time.
During todays presentation we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
By their nature all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons as described in our SEC filings including the risk factors section and cautionary statement disclosure in our most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K.
During this call well also use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our companys performance including free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always todays call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
And now I will turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Well thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
We posted solid results in the first quarter with adjusted earnings per share growing 22.5% to a $1.02 per share.
Both our PBM and retail segments delivered solid operating profit growth despite the impact of a fair amount of unforeseen weather related issues.
And when combining the weather issues with the higher than anticipated tax rate the estimated impact to our adjusted earnings per share versus our expectations was at least $0.03 per share.
Now let me just say that its unusual to hear us talk about the impact of weather on our business historically its been our practice to not blame the weather when we explain our results.
But this quarter the amount of severe weather was so abnormal that quite frankly its hard not to talk about it.
I want to emphasize that our underlying trends were very strong and given the weather issues noted retail operating profit increased a very healthy 14.2% just below the low end of our expectations.
PBM operating profit growth was slightly above the high-end of our expectations increasing a very strong 28.5% also of note is the $1.8 billion of free cash generated in the quarter which puts us well on our way to achieving this years free cash flow goal.
So while disappointed that the severe weather put a damper on an otherwise excellent quarter we remain very confident in our outlook for the full year and Dave will discuss our financial results and guidance in greater detail during his financial review.
So with that let me turn to a brief business update and Ill start with Health Reform.
As I am sure everyone is aware the latest available data suggests that 8 million individuals have enrolled in the public exchanges.
Now its still too early to estimate the impact this might have on utilization trends acknowledging that the mix of those lives is unclear so obviously more to come on this issue.
With regard to Medicaid expansion available data indicates that 3 million individuals have gained coverage and its forecasted that this number will continue to increase in the coming months.
And as expected we have seen a slight positive impact on our results from this growth in the Medicaid segment and we continue to believe that CVS Caremark is well-positioned to serve these new customers across our enterprise assets.
I also want to touch briefly on our 10 year agreement with Cardinal Health that agreement forms the largest generic sourcing entity here in the U.S.
Both CVS Caremark and Cardinal continue to work closely together on all aspects of the launch deepening our long standing working relationship and building on our combined sourcing expertise.
Initial reactions from suppliers have been positive and we remain on track for go live data as soon as July 1st of this year.
The company will be staffed with individuals from both Cardinal and CVS Caremark.
The entity will be located in Foxborough Massachusetts and operate under the name Red Oak Sourcing.
So progress continues and were looking forward to this exciting new venture.
Moving to our PBM business and Ill start with an update on the 2014 selling season.
And since our last earnings call we did add some second half wins and we warn that the transition of some business loss through acquisition primarily the Amerigroup business would be delayed from 2014 until 2015.
And as a result of these changes our client net new business for 14 increased to $3 billion and thats up from $2.4 billion at our last update.
I should also note that Amerigroup would have been require to pay in early termination fee has the business transition this year.
So improvement in the 14 net new businesses expected to be immaterial for this years financial results.
I also want to remind everyone that the 2014 net new business excludes the impact from attrition in our Med-D PDP business.
As we discussed during our Analyst Day we lost approximately $1.3 billion in 14 revenues related to last years CMS sanction.
And with the sanction listed we are now able to enroll newly eligible Medicare lives as they age into the program throughout the year.
However we miss the opportunity to gain lives through open enrollment last fall.
In our SilverScript plan as just mentioned we began to enroll new choosers for February as they aged into Medicare and we expect to begin receiving low-income subsidy auto assignees this month.
And we currently have roughly 3 million lives in our individual PDP and we continue to see significant opportunity to grow the business over the long term.
I am pleased to report that we have had a very successful 2014 welcome season.
We have affectively handled 100s of implementations with very high levels of service and this success is been driven by investments that we have made in our people our processes and our technology.
As for the 15th selling season its still too early to provide a substantive update but I would just say that the marketplace is active and we are seeing a significantly higher level of RFPs relative to the 14th selling season and would also say that our RFP activity is generally consistent with the levels experienced two years ago.
In mid April PBMI released its annual pharmacy benefit manager customer satisfaction report its broad survey it includes the opinions of nearly 400 plans sponsors who represent almost 65 million members.
And we are pleased that CVS Caremark ranked first among large publically traded PBMs on overall satisfaction.
And we think these results underscore our commitment to excellent service and we believe that we are very well positioned in the marketplace to both retain business and gain share with our strong service record along with our unique sweet of capabilities.
We recently announced the renewal of a three year contract to provide integrated pharmacy benefit services for the federal employee health benefit program or FEP as it is commonly called and we continue to provide mail retail and specialty PBM services along with highly customized clinical programs to FEPs more than 5 million federal employees retirees and dependents.
And we are certainly very pleased that FEP continues to recognize the value and service that we provide to their plan and to their members.
Moving on to specialty our business remains strong in the first quarter revenues were up approximately 34% year-over-year.
Today about 60% of specialty revenues in our PBM book of business are dispensed through CVS Caremark specialty pharmacies.
And our service model is resonating with our PBM customers as well as in the specialty stand-alone market impacting those specialty clients for which we are currently not the PBM.
At our recent client forum last month conversations confirmed that finding solutions that will stem the specialty cost trend is our clients top priority.
And we believe that tools used in the PBM market to manage the traditional pharmacy spend could be effectively applied in the specialty sector.
And we are well positioned to help clients through a variety of unique programs that improve cost quality and access whether the drugs are paid for under the medical benefit or the pharmacy benefit.
We recently released our annual trend management report we call that report insights.
And while spending for traditional medications was up just 0.8% in 2013 overall trend was 3.8% and that was largely driven by a 15.6% increase in specialty medications.
Among our clients specialty now represents about 22.5% of total drug spend and projections have that growing to as much as 50% by 2018.
So let me highlight two offerings that utilize our unique assets to help our customers manage specialty costs our medical pharmacy management and site of care management.
First we believe our suite of offerings in medical pharmacy management or lets call it MPM is a significant differentiator in our strategy to manage all aspects of the specialty patients.
According to our recent Milliman report the transition of that portion of specialty flowing through the medical benefit moving it to the pharmacy benefit can save payers and average of 19% across 14 classes of specialty injectables.
For those classes the payers choose to pay under the medical benefit our NovoLogix claims platform allows plans to manage these drugs with the same level of precision that is routinely expected from PBMs and again that leads to significant cost savings.
So the opportunity here for payers is large.
And we continue to have meaningful discussions regarding how CVS Caremark can best help them.
Secondly we can offer patients more convenient lower cost alternatives to hospital outpatient infusion.
And this could be the physicians office; it could be retail infusion site or even the patients home.
All of these create opportunities to reduce costs.
And our recent our acquisition of Coram will enable us to execute and do just that.
Coram is a market leader in specialty infusion services and enteral nutrition.
The integration to-date is going well; our sales forces are being aligned; and we are beginning to develop integrated products for both hospitals and health plans.
Now in addition to those two opportunities the roll out of our new Specialty Connect offerings is expected to be completed at the end of this quarter and Specialty Connect integrates our mail and retail capabilities providing choice and convenience for members while preserving the central clinical expertise that leads to better health outcomes.
And as of late April more than 15 000 specialty patients have been served by this new model and adherence and satisfaction rates are already meeting or exceeding those we see in traditional specialty.
So we continue to be excited by the prospects for our Specialty Connect offering as clients see this is another tool to achieve their objectives.
So I think Ive given you some examples so I think you can see how were positioned to continue to gain share in the fast growing specialty marketplace as we develop innovative offerings to capitalize on our unique ability to optimize cost quality and access.
Moving on to the retail business again we had solid operating profit growth in the quarter despite the tough comparisons with last years strong flu season along with the extreme weather we experienced throughout the quarter.
Total same-store sales increased 1.4% while pharmacy same-store sales increased 3.8%.
Pharmacy sales comps were negatively impacted by about 120 basis points due to recent generic introductions and by approximately 90 to a 100 basis points from the impact of weather along with the comparison to last years flu season.
Pharmacy script comps increased 2.1% on a 30 day equivalent basis and we estimate that the impact of weather and flu resulted in a negative impact to script comps of a 180 to 200 basis points.
As for the front store business comps decreased 3.8% and we estimate that the combined effects of weather and the flu resulted in a negative impact of a 140 to 160 basis points.
Comps were also negatively impacted by about 80 basis points due to shift of the Easter holiday from Q1 last year into the second quarter this year.
Now Ill note that excluding any impact from our exit of the tobacco category we do expect our front store comps to improve in the remaining quarters of the year.
We plan to break out the impact to comps upon exiting the tobacco category so you will be to easily see this underlying performance.
Also worth noting the response to our exit from the tobacco category continues to be extremely positive.
And we remain confident that this strategic decision will lead to enhanced enterprise wide opportunities for growth as CVS Caremark plays and expanding role in our evolving healthcare delivery system.
In the first quarter we continued to see an increase in both the breadth and depth of promotional activity of the marketplace.
And as we stated many times in the past we continue to reduce our dependency on the weekly circular and to begin to shift promotional investments to more personalized offers through our ExtraCare program all with the goal of driving profitable sales rather than chasing those empty sales.
And as competitor promotional activity grew higher we actually reduce dour circular add blocks year-over-year we reduced them by about 6%.
And as a result of staying true to our targeted promotional strategy Im pleased to say that we saw growth in our average basket size along with notable growth in our front store margin in the quarter.
Now of course we would like to see better front store comps but its important that we have a sustainable front end strategy.
And were doing a number of things that we believe will drive our front store business long-term.
And while were at an early stage for some of these efforts we are beginning to see what could become meaningful change as we go forward again with the goal of delivering the right value to customers while driving profitable sales.
And let me give you a couple of examples.
Through insights from ExtraCare in our predictive modeling for personalized emails we have experienced email open rates that are two times the industry average with response rates that are five times the industry norm.
And the importance of that lies in our ability to increase share of wallet of our best customers.
Beauty Club is another example where we see the impact of personalization as we engage 13 million of our best beauty customers These Beauty Club members are shopping our stores more and they are spending 2.5 times the average beauty customer.
Driving higher margin store brand sales its another area focus for us and our store brands as a percent of front store sales increased about 25 basis points to 17.6% in the quarter and our goal remains to drive store brands to more than 20% of front store sales over the next few years.
So I hope you can see that we are not sitting still at retail and we will continue to explore innovative personalization strategies through ExtraCare insights to drive results.
Turning to our real estate program we opened 22 new stores relocated 9 closed 7 resulting in 15 net new stores in the quarter and we are on track to achieve square footage growth of 2% to 3% for the year.
Before turning it over to Dave let me briefly touch on MinuteClinic which continues to post strong results.
In the quarter revenues increased 11.4% versus a year ago.
We opened 28 net new clinics in the quarter and we currently operate 828 clinics in 28 states plus the District of Columbia and we plan to open at least 150 new clinics this year about a third which will be in new markets.
MinuteClinic added two new health system alliances during the quarter bringing our total number of affiliations with major U.S.
health systems to 32.
We also recently announced our move to the Epic Electronic Medical Record which we believe will allow us to better integrate records with other hospital and provider groups.
It will also enable MinuteClinic to respond more quickly to the needs of our patients by accelerating our ability to offer new services.
And these enablers will allow us to achieve our goal of creating a national platform that supports primary care by providing integrated high quality care that is convenient accessible and affordable.
So with that let me turn it to Dave to go through the financial review.
Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
As always our plan to provide a detailed review of our first quarter results followed by a review of our guidance.
But before I get to that I want to highlight how we continue to enhance shareholder value through our disciplined capital allocation program.
During the quarter we paid approximately $325 million in dividends and given our continued strong earnings outlook for the year; we remain on track to surpass our targeted payout ratio of 25% at some point during this year more than a year ahead of our original schedule.
Additionally we repurchased 11 million shares for approximately $801 million at an average price of $72.69 per share.
And we still expect to complete at least $4 billion of share repurchases for the full year 14.
So between dividends and share repurchases weve returned more than $1.1 billion to our shareholders in the first quarter alone and we continue to expect return more than $5 billion for the full year.
And as Larry mentioned we generated approximately $1.8 billion of free cash in the first quarter.
Strong growth in earnings and working capital improvements were the key drivers of this large year-over-year increase.
And we continue to expect to produce free cash flow of between $5.5 billion and $5.8 billion this year.
Now turning to the income statement adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations came in at $1.02 per share up 22.5% reflecting very solid growth across all of our segments despite be in one sample of our EPS guidance range and as Larry stated earlier the estimated impact to adjusted earnings per share from the combined effect of the unforeseen bad weather and the higher than anticipated tax rate was at least $0.03 per share.
GAAP diluted EPS was $0.95 for the quarter while the retail segments produced excellent growth in operating profit it performed just below the low end of our expectations.
Now in contrast the PBM came-in just above the high-end of our expectations.
Now let me quickly walk you through our results.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the first quarter increased 6.3% or approximately $1.9 billion to $32.7 billion PBM net revenues increased a healthy 10.3% or approximately $1.9 billion to $20.2 billion.
The strong performance was driven by specialty inflation and net new business.
Offsetting this to some degree was lower mail choice claims as well as the negative impact on the claims from bad weather.
The PBMs generic dispensing rate increased approximately 190 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 82%.
Revenues in the retail business increased 2.7% in the quarter or approximately $441 million to $16.5 billion.
Sales in the retail segment were a little light due to unforeseen extreme weather as well as our decision to remain true to our strategy of not responding to aggressive promotions by others in the marketplace.
Retail GDR increased by approximately a 170 basis points versus the first quarter of 13 to 83%.
Turning to gross margin we reported 18.2% for the consolidated company in the quarter an increase of approximately 5 basis points compared to Q1 of 13.
Within the PBM segment gross margin increased approximately 45 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 4.6% while gross profit dollars increased approximately 21.8% year-over-year.
The increase year-over-year was driven by growth in our specialty business better acquisition cost and rebate economics and the increase in GDR.
These positive margin drivers were partially offset by typical client price compression.
Gross margin in the retail segment was 31.5% up about 60 basis points over LY.
This improvement was driven by the increase in GDR as well as a notable increase in front store margins.
Additionally gross profit dollars increased 4.8% year-over-year within the retail business.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by approximately 65 basis points from Q1 of 13 to 12% while total SG&amp;A dollars grew by only 0.9%.
The PBM segment expense growth kept pace with revenues as the SG&amp;A rate was flat to LY at 1.5%.
In the retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales improved approximately 45 basis points to 20.8% while expenses grew just 0.5%.
Keep in mind that our SG&amp;A dollar growth in retail was minimal largely due to the comparison with last year as we are lapping the highest SG&amp;A growth rate quarter of 2013.
Now this was partially offset by weather related costs incurred during the first quarter.
Within corporate segment expenses were down approximately $9 million to $190 million.
And adding it all up operating margin for the total enterprise improved approximately 70 basis points to 6.2%.
Operating margin in the PBM improved approximately 45 basis points to 3.2% while operating margin at retail improved about 105 basis points to 10.6%.
For the quarter PBM operating profit was strong growing at 28.5% this was again just above the high-end of our expectations for operating profit growth in the PBM segment.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 14.2% and while retail sales were negatively affected by weather retail operating margin was in line with our estimate at 10.6%.
And going below the line on a consolidated income statement.
Net interest expense in the quarter increased approximately $33 million from LY to $158 million.
The debt we issued in the fourth quarter was a primary driver of the increased.
Our weighted share count was 1.19 billion shares and finally our effective tax rate was 39.5% slightly higher than we anticipated.
Now let me update you on our guidance and our focus on the highlights you can find the additional details of our guidance in the slide presentation that we posted earlier this morning on our website.
As we stated in our press release we are maintaining our 2014 EPS ranges given our confidence and the outlook for the rest of this year.
We currently expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share in 14 in the range of $4.36 to $4.50 reflecting strong year-over-year growth of 10.25% to 13.75% and thats after removing a gain of approximately $0.04 associated with the legal settlement in the third quarter of 13.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $4.09 to $4.23 per share.
We have increased our top line outlook in the PBM and now expect revenue growth of eight in three quarter percent to 10% about a 150 basis point higher than our prior guidance.
This revised guidance reflects our expectations for better than expected growth within specialty pharmacy few by combination of both inflation and new product mix as well as the impact of the change in net new business.
And as the result of this improved expectation we are raising our guidance for consolidated net revenue grows to 5.25% to 6.5% are 100 basis points higher than our previous guidance.
Guidance for operating profit growth in our segments remains the same we continue to expect retail operating profit to increase 7% to 8.75% year-over-year and PBM operating profit to increase 6.75% to 10.75%.
We are increasing our expectations for amortization for the year slightly by approximately $5 million to account for additional expense related Coram.
And we now expect amortization to up approximately $520 million for the year.
And as I have said before our free cash flow guidance for the year remains in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.8 billion.
Now in the second quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.08 to $1.11 per share reflecting growth of 11% to 14.75% versus Q2 of 2013.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of a $1.01 to $1.04 per share during the second quarter.
Now within the retail segment we expect revenues to increase 2.5% to 4% versus the second quarter of LY this revenue increase will be driven by solid prescription growth as well as the positive impact of the Easter shift on front store sales.
Adjusted script comps are expected to increase in the range of 2.75% to 3.75% while we expect total same store sales in the range of 1.25% to 2.75% In the PBM we expect revenue growth of between 10.75% and 12% driven by continued strong growth in specialty and inflation.
We expect retail operating profit growth of 4.5% 6.5% in the second quarter.
We expect PBM operating profit growth of 18.25% to 23.25% in the second quarter.
Now just a couple of notes on second quarter margins.
During the second quarter we expect that our large state will finalize its reduction in Medicaid reimbursement rate.
Given our historical rate estimate this finalization will likely have a positive impact on pharmacy margins in the second quarter as we reconcile to the confirmed rate structure.
On the flip side we expect front stores margins to decline in the second quarter due to the anticipated discounting of some inventory related to our exit of the tobacco category as well as tough comparisons with the second quarter of LY the highest rate quarter of 13.
And I know that we expect front store margins to turn positive again in the back half of the year.
All things considerably expect another very solid quarter in Q2.
So in closing I will leave you with three key thoughts first we posted solid growth this quarter and were off to a very good start for the year.
Second our outlook for 2014 for both businesses and both at the enterprise level is unchanged and very strong.
And finally we expect to continue to generate very strong free cash and we will use a disciplined approach to capital allocation to ensure that we maximize the value will return to our shareholders.
And with that I will turn it back to Larry.
Okay.
Thank you Dave.
And let me just wrap-up with a reminder that all the ongoing changes that we are seeing in the healthcare environment are certainly creating unique opportunities for CVS Caremark and our unmatched model in innovative solutions make us well positioned to capitalize on these opportunities and we believe create a sustainable competitive advantage.
And our management team remains laser focused on driving enterprise growth while enhancing shareholder value.
So with that lets go ahead and open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks guys for taking the question here.
Larry Dave I wanted to talk about on the PBM side here lot of decisions over the last few months particularly around all the new drugs and HepC and just want to talk about what your experience has been so far on the PBM side and then also particularly on our specialty pharmacy but also on your Part D lines.
I think you talked about 3 million members in individual Part D plans do you have a sense on your exposure there as the more of the risk bearing entity? And can you kind of talk about per patient what your exposure would be in Part D? Thanks.
Yes Charles this is Larry.
Let me just start and then Ill ask Jon to jump in here.
But I think as we have alluded to in our prepared remarks specialty patients are dealing with complex issues and again as we heard last month at our client forum our clients are more focused than they have ever been on managing this trend without compromising care.
And the private market has solutions that have proven to be successful and there is an acceptance and a growing interest in terms of bringing some of those tools to that theyve been successful on the traditional side of pharmacy to specialty.
And in addition to that we talked about some examples this morning where we believe we have unique integrated products that even take that one step further.
So our goal is to bring these tools to the entire specialty market HepC just becomes one of those categories.
So Jon why dont you.
Yes okay.
And Charles Sovaldi is about $80 000 per 12 weeks of therapy.
We do have prior authorization programs in place today to ensure appropriate utilization.
And I think the most important thing is were expecting new drugs and to the marketplace in the fourth quarter that will create competition and allow us to leverage our formulary capabilities that we introduced three years ago very successfully.
So it is getting a lot of attention I agree with Larry that the tools that we have can appropriately manage this and were expecting to be able to leverage those as new drugs come to the marketplace.
As far as our Part D plan there is usage in there and we expect that to continue but we do have protection in the risk quarters.
So we expect the impact to be minimal for this year.
Okay thats helpful.
And maybe just Jon just a follow-up there talk about your formulary tools.
Can you talk about some examples in specialty where your formulary tools have been able to leverage the pricing I guess an example would be maybe you experienced in multiple sclerosis because if you look at the list price for some of these drugs like even and Avonex which is an older therapy relative to some of the other one.
The price has still increased over the years but is that an issue that were looking at the list price versus maybe what the prices that your clients are actually paying? Thanks.
Well Charles how we leverage our formulary strategy is formulary placement access to the drugs for our clients and their members and we negotiate with pharma rebates that those past back to our clients and reduced the cost of that drug the gross cost that you see they get a rebate on top of that and reduces the ultimate price of that they pay.
So thats how it works we have done it with specialty growth homeowners is a good example and we have been very successful and that will expand to other categories and HepC is a very good example of how we will expand that moving forward.
And Charles the only thing I would add is that among clients there has been a growing interest formulary management.
And I think as you are aware we have seen that competitors introduce very similar strategies and we introduced our formulary programs some three years ago so we think its a real opportunity to drive down cost.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the question.
Just looking at the pharmacy same store sales results pretty impressive in considering the weather impact factoring the impacts from generic and it would appear that pricing was up about 300 basis points obviously it is still very healthy but a pretty significant step down from the pricing impacts from the previous quarter.
We have heard some comments around inflation moderating just wondering what you guys are seeing on the pricing front and have trends in pricing on both generic and branded changed at all in your views since you gave guidance back in December? Bob I will start and Dave May want to jump in here as well.
But we havent seen anything out of the ordinary that we have been anticipated or comprehended in our outlook.
And on the branded side I think that the trends there have been very similar to what we have seen in prior years.
And in the generic market there has been -- weve seen some price increases but its relatively off of -- its a small number off our entire book of business and really not material in our results.
Yes.
Ill just add just a bit to that more around the generic side.
As we look at it from a generic marketplace there is a lot of generic capacity in the marketplace today and there is a lot of generic competition.
So as we think about it long-term we think there is a lot of opportunity remaining in our book of business to continue to drive down our cost of goods sold and were doing that both on our own but importantly here in the next several periods beginning to do that through our joint venture with Cardinal Health.
Got it.
And I guess just a follow-up around pharmacy moving over to scripts; obviously I appreciate all the detail on the impact from the weather.
Scripts looked like they still grew 2% on a same store basis; I think you said 180 basis points to 200 basis points was the negative impact from weather.
So really would have been pretty impressive growth on the script front.
I think I saw on the slide Dave you might have mentioned that the outlook for 2Q is 2.75% to 3.75%.
I think this is clearly a step forward from what weve been seeing as far as prescription growth really over the last few years.
Can you guys just maybe talk about or breakout what the drivers are from the underlying growth in both the quarter and behind your expectations for script growth going forward? Yes maybe Ill start and maybe Ill ask Larry and Helena if they want to add to this.
We as you know we continue to take share in the marketplace.
And I think importantly as you look at our business over the past couple of years weve continued to take more share of the Caremark clients dispensing volume into the CBS channel and/or into the Caremark mail channel.
And that has enabled us to Ill say outpace in the marketplace in general.
And if you look at our script trends you look at how we performed in Q1 and in our expectations for the next several periods were continuing that process and we have not really fundamentally changed our strong underlying trajectory there.
Next question please? Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
Good morning Ross.
Good morning Ross.
On the PBM selling season if you had to sort of break it down into the key drivers of why you think you are sort of seeing more interest in the platform and why you sound I would say incrementally more enthusiastic on sort of your potential capture rate this year; do you think you are getting some positive tailwind from the tobacco announcement do you feel like its maintenance choice driving it do you think some of your home strategy and specialty strategy is resonating? Im just trying to get a sense for where you think you are kind of -- the key points where youre getting momentum.
Yes Ross its Larry.
Let me start and then I think others will jump in here as well.
I think that the ticket to the game is you still got to be right on price and you got to have demonstrated high levels of service performance.
And I think that once you get the ticket to entry from that I do think many of the elements that you mentioned and some that we alluded to in our prepared remarks become differentiators where the client can check the box there and in some cases there is not a competing offering.
And I think tobacco is another one of those items that you check the box on recognizing that there is more and more and growing evidence in terms of the cost of tobacco in overall healthcare costs and the desire of health plans and employer sponsor coverage to begin to curve the costs associated with that.
And I think in many cases they see us as leading the way to bring solutions to that.
Yes Ross this is Jon.
Let me just add that we feel very good about our positioning in the marketplace.
So our service levels are strong Larry talked about that in his opening remarks.
Our differentiated capabilities are resonating in the marketplace like maintenance choice what were able to do with MinuteClinic what were able to with specialty.
Specialty is clearly our clients top priority.
And we talk about our capabilities with Specialty Connect NovoLogix and Accordant as an example.
I will tell you that as I sit in front of clients tobacco always comes up and they applaud our move.
And I think its just another intangible that as theyre making decisions around which provider they want to go with they feel really good about a company thats made a move like that.
And then the last question you asked about was platform; that does not come up in our client meetings.
Theyre on a platform theyre on one platform; its really a non-issue for them its an internal opportunity for us around efficiency and productivity.
Great.
And maybe just one question on capital deployment.
I mean Dave youve done a fantastic job you talked about where the payout ratios gone and you guys have obviously been buying the stock.
Do you still have room on the M&amp;A front? There has been some more chatter in the public markets about you may be doing more down in Latin America and Brazil.
I mean how has that venture gone so far? How are you -- updated thinking about that market and is that still your sort of preference in terms of some of these higher growth markets for kind of expansion versus maybe other more developed markets that have lower growth? Ross this is Dave.
Ill kick it off and then Ill ask Larry to chime in here.
As you pointed out were fortunate the fact that we have a very robust cash flow generation organization in a sense that well throw awful lot of cash both this year but more importantly over the next several years.
As you said weve been very focused on the fact of using that cash to put it to use in the most effective manner to drive shareholder value.
And we have -- we still have opportunities importantly to increase our dividends to do meaningful share buybacks.
But importantly we can also add to and invest in to our business when it makes sense.
And there is opportunities both here in the states but also opportunities elsewhere around the globe.
And Ill ask Larry to transition into maybe a conversation around what were seeing in Brazil at this point in time.
Yes.
Ross weve been -- I guess its been just under a year since weve been operating and operated results have been in line with our expectations.
And we remain focused on learning from our international operations.
Weve got several pilots that are underway that are allowing us to bring expertise to the market and at the same time understand which of our capabilities can work in Brazil weve seen good results from those tests.
And today weve got I think its 47 stores.
We want to take accelerate that growth in future years both organically as well as inorganic.
And as weve stated in the past and as Dave alluded to we will take a disciplined approach to our international expansion plans.
Our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
So Larry two things one on specialty.
If you take Coram out the impact of Coram would the growth rate have been similar to the last few quarters? And then Yes.
Would have been? Yes it would have been.
Okay.
And then do you think as you build out your capabilities in specialty so for the last four quarters roughly 20% or so is there a scope for that to accelerate much say over the next couple of years? John I think there is and I think that the significance around the Coram acquisition was our ability to not just manage the specialty drug but to manage the specialty patient holistically.
And the infusion component was kind of that missing piece of the puzzle that would allow us to do that.
So we are very excited about the capabilities that we have.
And we touched on some of the unique offerings that we can bring to market.
And that combined with just the anticipated growth in the specialty market I think that we are in a very good place.
And John this is Jon.
So with the Coram acquisition with the NovoLogix acquisition when you think about specialty pharmacy half of the spend is on the pharmacy side which PBMs have traditionally managed.
We have essentially doubled the size of the pie.
With those assets we can now participate in specialty pharmacy across both pharmacy and medical.
And weve built out our specialty strategy really across three pillars cost; quality; and access.
And we have solutions; the marketplace is looking for solutions.
This is our top priority.
And we believe that our assets will allow us to disproportionately grow in this area.
And maybe Ill just close on the statement that as you look at the specialty market were plugging ourselves into payers and to capturing more share of the payer spend but were also importantly plugging ourselves into the patients and using our Specially Connect our retail and MinuteClinic assets to capture more wealth in market and all of that from an environment perspective is being fueled yet again by new products over the next several years coming in the marketplace as that will further drive utilization in this category.
So John obviously you can tell that we are excited about it.
So just transitioning to retail for a second you guys have done an incredibly good job of improving retail profitability.
So the question becomes and I guess the moving target but how close do you think we are to getting to peak margins in that business do you know? And then lets assume that there are things with personalization that kind of are game changers.
How much more upside is there to retail EBIT margin? And is personalization what you do with the circulars thats the single biggest driver? Yes John.
Let me take the first part of that and then Ill flip it over to Helena to talk more about the personalization strategy.
John when you think about the opportunities at a very high level of retail our ability to from an operating margin point of view okay.
Our ability to pump more volume through our box is what the key driver is there and especially when you think about the pharmacy opportunities acknowledging the fixed costs that exist not just with the bricks and mortar but the cost of the pharmacies.
So I think that many of our strategies and our thought processes with that in mind.
And then Ill ask Helena to talk a little more about the personalization strategies as it relates to the front end business.
Sure.
So overall you can see that we continue to focus on driving the long-term profitable growth in this front and while front store sale are small part of our overall business we see a growing role of both digital and personalization.
So our personalization efforts are really at the key and some of what we hear from our suppliers is given that weve been added for 16 years with extra care they are definitely noticing our unique ability to use the data to drive profitable growth.
So in particular if you look at areas like health beauty and personal care these are areas where we continue to grow share in the market place and we are essentially staying out of the promotional fray and growing our margins and our profits in these businesses.
So this continues to be a very important part of our overall growth strategy.
And John as we alluded to in our comments I mean obviously we would like our front store comps to be better and I think as I have talked about on past calls there is a balance there its a little bit of art and science and well continue to work to innovate to find that sweet spot there but I think that again as you heard from my earlier remarks our goal is to create a sustainable front end strategy and quite frankly we think there are elements of the current promotional market place that are sustainable for the long-term.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys and I actually wanted to follow-on with John was kind of talking about Larry what you were talking about just basically as you look at your kind of a strategic question as you look at your asset base whether it be the clinics the stores specialty to push the backend of the stores how interconnected do you believe the businesses are? Well Scott Ill start and other may want to jump in here.
Okay I actually thing that if I can use a baseball analogy that were I actually think that were probably in the second inning in the nine inning game.
I mean I think that were doing some things that you dont see in the marketplace largely driven by plan design for our PBM clients and their members but I think there is so much more that we can do and thats what our team and Id say teams because its not just the retail focus its an enterprise focus when you think about our retail offerings and how that intersects with our PBM offerings and plan design as well as MinuteClinic.
Hey Scott this is Jon.
I mean let me bring what Larry talked about for life.
So there is we have a client thats health plan that has a focus on the primary care medical homes.
And so were connecting into their technology platform our PBM services our stores our MinuteClinics and Coram and were able to work with the primary care doctor and message patients message the providers message the pharmacy message the MinuteClinics with the goal of being all align to influencing that number in a way that ultimately reduces overall costs.
So we positioned ourselves as an integral part of the healthcare network leveraging our assets and our technology capabilities.
So I think thats a very good example of how the assets all come together in interplay.
Yes.
And just building on Jons point I think if you look at and Larry alluded to just before but we have spent a great deal of time Jons team and my team working together on the rollout of specialty connect.
Were really excited about where thats going.
The great example of how were working together to bring a solution for the marketplace that is truly unique and holistic and thinking more from an enterprise perspective than our individual business units.
So if you guys think and it sounds like that you do that you would agree with this idea that the stores can be kind of become a center for health and wellness.
And looking at that asset base where do you think the biggest lever is in that store to increased return on invested capital return on assets? Well Scott I think it goes back to the question John asks.
So I think ultimately its generating more volume through the box.
Okay and thats what well see the biggest ROI.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JP Morgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks very much.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Lisa.
Larry I noted that when you talk about the 2015 selling season you said more RFPs than weve seen historically.
Is there any way for you or for Jon to size the potential pipeline or opportunities for 2015? Well Lisa I think thats hard I mean we look at the I guess the season opportunities more based in terms of the RFPs that are out in market and as you will know RFPs are not all April as you look at volume.
Right.
I mean I think that one other questions that we always get as how much business to we have up for renewal and we see it has kind of normal renewal season less FEP.
And I think weve said on past calls we had $16 billion to $17 billion up for renewal and again that excludes FEP.
But I think that again as people compare this year to last year recognizing the last year was down year from RFP activity the marketplace is very active at this point in time.
Lisa this is Jon.
Obviously its just still very early so we have more to say on our next call.
Jon could you characterize that you see more manage care business is up renewal this year more employer business any color around how we should think about this year selling season? I think its hard to say.
Clearly you see the manage care business come out early in the season so we have seen that and we are just now beginning to see the employer business come to the markets.
So and activity is tracking essentially to what we saw couple of years ago so Id probably think about it in those terms.
Our next question comes from the line of Dane Leone with Macquarie.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thank you for taking the questions.
On mail choice penetration it dipped down to a low 19 in many years this point I was just curious to get some inside into the cause of that whether it has to do with PTP volume loss from the CMS sanction or something more fundamental in the market so anything there would really help us.
Okay let me start and again others may jump in but the as we have said in the past that we did not we dont see traditional mail as a growth driver we saw that slowing okay and one of the drivers behind that is payer mix shifts as more business migrates into the Medicare and Medicaid segments.
The traditional drivers of mail just dont exist within those government programs and I think we are beginning to see that.
And Dane Jon again.
But we are seeing our mail the Maintenance Choice volume grow at retail while not enough to offset what were seeing at mail.
So we do think as we look at weve about $17 million lives on our Maintenance Storage program we have talked about the opportunity to grow that to $34 million lives.
So we still think it is an opportunity to grow.
Larry talked about the mix shift difference and specifically about our PDP plans Part D plans have very low mail penetration.
So its really not a factor here.
And so as we think about your unique model versus some of our competitors from the outsider view generally we hope that mail volumes carry a much higher margin for the business than retail volume.
Does that still whole true or is that really changed overtime as youve developed your integrated model? Dane this is Dave.
Thats a little different for us.
You think about the economics of lets say a 90 day maintenance prescription be that at mail or at retail.
They carry the same economics for us.
So were truly financially agnostic to that.
And whats nice about our models as we plug into payers and as we work with patients we can give them that opportunity at the same economics as a Ill say mandatory program pushing them into a channel that they may not chose to utilize.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Thank you for squeezing me in here.
Regarding your assumptions on weather do you assume the basket size increase had to do to some extent with the severe weather or do you think that thats sustainable going forward? And then how do you know that some of the impacts werent from the competitors advertising programs or perhaps from the greater seasonality that you should probably expecting relative to higher deductible plans being sold so many changes going on this year with healthcare reform? How were you able to parse away some of the weather impacts from some of those other impacts? This is Helena Peter.
I would just say that our basket size growth continues on its normal trend we havent seen anything out of the ordinary and for us as I said before its a continued focus on personalization we have as Larry mentioned before as others have increased their promotional activity we have actually reduced ours and instead or spending this on our top customers.
That is our particular focus these are the top customers we are typically looking at the top 20% or 30% of our customers who are driving the lion share of our volume and profits and we have a continued focus on increasing the number of personalize outreaches we have to those folks.
And Peter keep in mind that when we are talking about basket size it is just the front end basket and does not encompass anything in excuse me in the pharmacy.
I understand.
My question is more of the how were you able to parse away the weather impacts from all the other things going on because the weather erratically is impacting not just the front end but back end as well? Yes.
This is Dave.
I think the team does a pretty good job of annualizing kind of by market and understanding where we quite frankly have stores that are on limited hours or stores that are closed and/or whether a severe weather whether we can see the traffic patterns.
And so I think we can do it kind of by day by store.
And so its not we cant 100% lock that down but I think the team does a pretty good job of kind of analyzing that and thats why we give you a little bit of the range in the commentary weve provided today.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Couple of quick questions for you first I dont know if you can I know you dont usually do this but since we have the impact of weather in Q1 could you help us at all in terms of how things sort of shaped up in April couple things within that.
One it seems like underlying script growth for the industry to accelerate and I was wondering if you saw any of that and what you thought might be the drivers? And then second how the front end business looked through Easter with better weather or anything better there? Ed those are great questions unfortunately we cant comment on that at this point in time.
Okay.
Question on tobacco any thoughts on what you might do with the space behind the store and whether there is an opportunity to maybe offset some of that sales loss in the back half of this year? Hey this is Dave.
Ill start and then Ill ask Helena to chine in.
Just I want to be clear on the tobacco category and as we exited while we will come up with ways to use that space.
There is unlike that product line.
As you know the tobacco category at least from a financial metrics perspective is very productive.
So with that maybe Ill turn it to Helena.
Yes thats totally right.
So were still working on our plans.
Weve been testing a number of things.
But as Dave said we certainly dont expect that what we put a high in that space well make up for the lost tobacco sale.
What we have really been looking at is as a question before alluded to were increasingly positioning ourselves as a health care company and making sure that our store more and more represents ourselves as the healthcare company.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi thanks good morning.
Good morning Steve.
So I guess maybe just a quick question on the JV with Cardinal.
Aside from the $100 million in annual payment that youll get from them I guess the question is do you expect a fairly quick turnaround time after July and improving your overall costs by pulling the purchasing with Cardinal or will that happen slowly overtime.
And the reason why I asked is that before about some letters being send out by the various parties in the other procurement collaborations in the supply channel to the generic suppliers with (inaudible) capital as on the script.
So Im just kind of curious of your thoughts on whats going to happened after July whether there will be quick improvement or is it gradual just any color that would help? Thanks.
This is Dave.
Maybe Ill start here.
Clearly were working a pretty aggressively right now with both folks from CVS as well as folks from Cardinal to get the joint venture up and running.
We still have a little bit of work to make that happened.
So I think the teams are working very collaboratively to make it happen productively.
I do think that it is probably just a little too early to provide too much color on that.
I will think its important that were going to figure out ways and which we get the joint venture up and running that were going to partner with generic manufactures that working to create win-win scenarios for them.
And you could imagine that some of that would happened quickly I think some of that could happened overtime.
So the cadence of an improvement I think its probably too early to give us much color to at this point.
Okay.
Great thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
On the specialty whats the primary lever on getting some of that specialty spend out of the medical benefit and into the pharmacy benefit is it just the changes in benefit design? Yeah Mark this is Jon.
So thats essentially it.
So if a payer allows it to be paid under the medical benefit and its build that way it goes through.
They do have the ability to say we are not going to allow that to be paid under the medical benefit it has to be moved over the pharmacy benefit and the value proposition there is lowering cost of goods.
So we think its an opportunity for the marketplace and again we feel like our assets position us to help our clients find ways to save money in this rapidly growing area.
And the Coram fits into that as well? I am sorry.
The Coram fits in that as well so you can aim people towards your Coram business on infusion rather than going to a medical facility? Yes its interesting when you look at Coram they have people out in 1 200 hospitals across the country and they essentially recruit patients one at a time.
We believe the opportunity is very fragmented market working with payers to reduce the infusion network on a more volume through Coram.
And there is a value proposition there for the payer.
And its not just in drug cost but its we can help get patients out of the hospital faster because of our capabilities to do many of the procedures at home versus in the hospital and we could also help to reduce readmission rates.
And so as we have been out in the market place payers are very interested in these capabilities.
And I think very open to skinning down those infusion networks which means more volume through Coram.
Mark the only other point I want to emphasize is back to the first part of your question is that I think the data is powerful here and showing clients whether its a health plan and employer the cost savings opportunities is an important part of the story.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Yes.
Hi good morning.
I couple of broad questions.
First of all on the specialty and especially on Sovaldi.
I mean we are hearing that the payers are looking to narrow the network they are using in order to save cost i.e.
just gearing their patient population toward pharmacy their own specialty pharmacies.
So when you think about your specialty scripts or maybe Sovaldi as an example what percent of that script is coming from the Caremark population and your other health plan partners? Ricky this is Dave.
We dont provide that level of detail at this point of time.
I would say that just as Jon maybe indicated earlier today in his remarks around how we manage specialty one lever that is available to specialty is Ill say narrowing the network and pushing those and centralizing those fills into a centralized provider.
And we do that in some cases where it makes sense or in some cases we have an open network.
But thats an opportunity.
Yes.
And Ricky so we have not heard a lot of activity in Sovaldi from payers around narrowing the network most of the activity is around making sure which patient should be placed on the medication.
And really the biggest opportunity to lower the cost for Sovaldi is going to be around formulary management.
And that will happen in the fourth quarter when these new drugs come to the market and there is more competition in the Hep-C class.
Okay.
And then secondly just on generic Nexium obviously there is some uncertainty around the drugs so do you a Nexium benefit into 14 guidance? Ricky this is Dave we Nexium like many other products there is always some level of uncertainty in our guidance range is comprehend I guess a series of different scenarios around both that product and another products.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen with Leerink Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi can you comment on how you would enhance the level or number of services that a retail store could provide to become more primary care physician like in particular around lab is that something you are contemplating bringing to the stores? Thanks.
Yes David I mean we are doing a number of point of sales lab testing today whether in A1C weve piloted some testing for some other disease baits were there is a lot of technology out there the technology in that space is moving very quickly and were evaluating what is in the marketplace and I think its not a question of if thats more question of when and finding the technology that we believe is right for MinuteClinic.
Okay.
And just in your view in a perfect world I mean would these be lab tested are done in the store or would be drawn on the central lab and then brought back in or a combination of both? No I think we are thinking about it as lab testing thats done in the store that really satisfies the goal of increasing the services that we can provide around the management of chronic disease.
Our next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi I know this is getting late in the call.
I just had a quick follow-up to make sure I understand something when youre talking to clients now about their specialty trend.
What do you think the market specialty trend is now and what can you bring that number to using the most aggressive tools that you have? Thanks.
Well John its Larry I mean I think as I mentioned in 2013 we saw the specialty trend at approach I think it was just a tick under 16%.
And we have a variety of models that we share with clients that if left unmanaged that trend is going to be in the high teens and Ill flip it over to Jon because he has got a very nice presentation for our clients to show by adopting all of these various programs what the trend could ultimately come down to.
Yes and John so we think we can actually get a double-digit trend like that down to almost flat.
And there are programs that we have such as advantaged control specialty formulary that we can reduce trend by 1.5%.
Medical claims averaging and repricing that can bring it down 2.5% side of care medical carve out that can bring it down 3.6%.
I will go to all of them but there is numerous programs that we have that weve been building over the last several years that can take these high trend rates in specialty and really make a huge impact on them I mean get them down to almost zero if they adopted everything.
Right.
And as you look in your crystal ball say out 2016-2017 what do you see the overall drug trend being including specialty let diminish? Thats a good question and at our client forum I spend some time to actually talking to our clients about how they should begin to think about their pharmacy benefit because if you look at utilization being somewhere in the 2% to 3% range moving forward you see inflation overall across their book being somewhere in the 7.5% range.
You see the generic pipeline subsiding as an example.
So we think that trend overall can be somewhere in the 6% to 10% range of unmanaged and obviously were encouraging them to adopt strategy such as more aggressive formularies narrower networks to bring those to bring that trend down.
And its interesting the marketplace I think is very open to these types of solutions that have been developed.
John I think in Jons presentation at the client forum I think there was one of those aha moments for our client that recognizing that over the last several years the influx of generics has been a key driver to bringing the cost trend pretty flat.
And a reality that is we migrate post 15 and generic centering the marketplace while theyre still there it is slower rate than historical averages that theyre going to have to do some things differently and think about things differently.
And they appreciate the fact that were thinking about those things for them and bringing them solutions.
Our next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
A lot of questions have been asked.
Maybe I will ask something that hasnt been asked at all you did mentioned that the strong free cash flow in the first quarter was tied to working capital and could you just talk a little bit about sort of what youve accomplished in managing working capital and what you think the opportunities are? Yeah sure Meredith.
There is really two things one is we also posted very aggressive growth rates from an earnings perspective so that obviously helps free cash flow yield.
But secondly as we continue to push on our working capital I would say Meredith there is not kind of one program that we have there thats driving all that.
We continue to push on AR and AP.
I think as we have talked about in the past probably our biggest opportunity continues to be to enhance our inventory position from a supply chain perspective within the retail stores.
If you look and you try to compare our performance with kind of the I will our top performance in the marketplace we still have anywhere from the $1.5 billion to $2 billion of inventory that I think we can get out of the pipeline overtime.
And the team is working on that today.
There is not one silver bullet to that.
Its going to be a lot of little changes that we need to do to really enhance I would say our safety stock as opposed to really dramatically changing our SKU count in the stores if you look at it from that perspective.
Great and then I have a question probably for Helena.
Based on everything you are saying it doesnt sound like there is a point in time in which you will cycle reduced page count or anything like that is that the right way to think about it that this is an ongoing process of using your marketing funds more wisely or will we see less impact at some point? Yes.
No I think that your first assumption is right Meredith.
If you look at on overall household penetration of the Sunday circular in the last five years and projections for go forward it continues to decline.
We see that discontinuing I have turned page.
And so to be ahead of that curve we have really been investing outside of the circular.
So there is no one silver moment where we are going to cycle something I think this will continue.
Okay.
We will take two more questions.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey good morning guys and thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning George.
How are you guys? Good.
I guess first thing I wanted to talk a little bit more about the PBM results were pretty impressive.
And if I kind of boil it down to profitability per adjusted script really strong growth year-over-year.
I guess can you talk about whats driving that there? How much should we think about that as to contribution of mix more for acquisitions versus just continued improvements in the business or kind of what else is the key there? This is Dave George.
Ill touch upon that.
We dont really use that metric that much we think it can give you a false -- that metric can give you a false positive or false negative depending upon the applied mix where you are in the profitability cadence of Medicare Part D as if the risk order is to through all the cycles and the benefit levels.
I would say though having said that there is a couple of things that are driving our profitability we talked about.
We continue to push on specialty and specialty is becoming a bigger portion of our business and we continue to enhance our performance from a specialty perspective.
We further more have worked aggressively to improve our cost structure from a cost of goods sold perspective.
And you have seen us continue to [wretch] it down and improve our buy side economics.
And then finally from the PBM perspective driven somewhat by our formulary strategy have improved our rebate yield overtime.
So all three of those continue to enhanced our profitability.
And then I will just say sliding on top of that is we made some investments over the past several years from a streamlining perspective and our cost structure is in a much better position today than probably what it was three or four years ago.
So all those components are contributing to that growth and profitability.
Yes I remember that you guys didnt see that as a core metric but even as its a metric that I continue to look at because other companies in space use it very strong improvement even on the tough comp year-over-year.
And then Id follow with one more quick one and I dont know do you guys have any data and are you able to break them kind of what is the capture rate or what is the cross sale as the MinuteClinic business continues to grow pretty strongly you guys are posting very strong script volume like kind of what the script capture from people who shop at a MinuteClinic and how should we think about the tie between the growth in the MinuteClinic business to the tie in the pharmacy sales? Yes.
There is a tie between patients who utilize the MinuteClinic typically when a prescription is written at MinuteClinic is 95% plus of the time filled at CVS pharmacy something like that.
I would say that MinuteClinic is still relatively small in the grand scheme of as it relates to CVS pharmacy so it is not a major contribution of script comp growth but it is a nice compliment to our business.
And quite honestly we dont really think about MinuteClinic as it relates to the front although there is probably some hallow into the front of our business as well.
Our final question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Larry given vision adding oxygen therapy or durable medical equipment to your stable businesses there on top of the infusion business and then just secondarily your primary competitor on the PBM world was graced with three subpoena do you anticipate same similar disclosure of in your queue this evening? Yes Bob good morning in terms of I think you will see in our queue later today that we did receive subpoena from the U.S.
attorneys office for the district of Rhode Island request to documents concerning some drugs very similar to one of our competitors as it relates to feeds and rebates and obviously were cooperating fully on that matter.
We have not received the subpoena from the Department of Labor.
And then on your first question we do not have any plans to get into the oxygen space.
We have that opportunity when you look at the Coram acquisition it was part of Apria and we purchased the infusion and the investor kept the oxygen business.
Durable medical I think we continue to explore what options we may have.
We do a little bit of that today and I think its something that continues to be on our radar screen that can we do it in an effective fashion when I say effective I am thinking of convenience of the patient in mind as well as obviously the economics as it relates to the business.
Thats great.
Thank you.
Okay thanks Bob.
Well so appreciate everyones time this morning.
It was a long call but we want us to get to everyones questions and if there is any follow-up Nancy and her team will be available and again thanks for your ongoing interest in CVS Caremark.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Q2 2014 Earnings Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday August 5 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Im here this morning with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will review our second quarter results as well as guidance for the third quarter and year.
Jon Roberts President of PBM; and Helena Foulkes President of the Retail Business are also with us today and will participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow-up so we can provide more callers with the chance to ask their question.
Now I have one key date to announce this morning.
We plan to host our annual Analyst Day on the morning of Tuesday December 16 in New York City.
At that time youll have the opportunity to hear from several members of our senior management team who will provide 2015 guidance as well as a comprehensive update on our growth strategy.
We plan to send invitations with more specific details via email sometime in August so please save the date.
Again thats Tuesday December 16.
If you dont receive an invitation and would like to attend please contact me at your earliest convenience.
Please note that just before this call we posted a slide presentation on our website that summarizes the information you will hear today as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
Additionally our quarterly report on Form 10-Q will be filed by the close of business today and it will be available on our website at that time.
During todays presentation we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
By their nature all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons as described in our SEC filings including the Risk Factors section and cautionary statement disclosures in those filings.
During this call well also use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our companys performance including free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
As always todays call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
Now let me turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us to hear more about the strong results we posted for the second quarter.
Im pleased to say that we met or exceeded our expectations on every key major performance.
Our adjusted earnings per share increased 16.5% to $1.13 per share.
Thats $0.02 above the high end of our guidance range.
Both the PMB and Retail segments exceeded our revenue expectations and delivered strong gross margins.
And as a result operating profit in the Retail business grew 6.5% and profit in the PBM grew 30% exceeding our expectations.
Additionally we generated nearly 400 million of free cash keeping us on track to achieve our full year free cash flow goal.
Now given our strong performance year-to-date we are raising and narrowing our adjusted earnings per share guidance for the year to a range of $4.43 to $4.51 and thats up from our previous range of $4.36 to $4.50 and Dave will provide the details behind our financial results and guidance during his review.
But before I move on I do want to say that Im extremely proud of the work our colleagues are doing to drive continued strong results across the enterprise.
So let me turn to a brief business update and Ill start by level-setting how we see the current state of health reform.
I think as everybody knows there are reported to be about 8 million individuals who have enrolled in the public exchanges and we saw the biggest increase occur toward the end of open enrollment.
The mix of individuals who were newly insured as opposed to those who previously had coverage it still remains unclear with various sources quoting anywhere from a low of 27% of individuals newly insured up to a high of 85% with multiple data points suggesting it might be somewhere in between.
With regard to Medicaid available data indicates that 6.7 million individuals have gained coverage which is up from 3 million at the time of our last earnings call.
Now while the net number of newly insured remains somewhat of a mystery we can be confident that several million Americans have gained coverage in recent months and this should provide a positive secular trend in pharmacy volume growth for the next several years.
Our experience to-date with respect for the combined impact of both public exchanges and the expansion of Medicaid is consistent overall with our expectations and is expected to yield a modest benefit in '14.
We continue to expand our focus on building strategic enterprise relationships with health plans whether or not were the PBM.
We support more than 25 commercial health plans co-ops and Medicaid managed care organizations across 26 states as their PBM and we expect this number to grow.
We have also implemented preferred pharmacy networks or Maintenance Choice in more than 20 states and as we emphasized at our December Analyst Day we are well positioned across the enterprise to partner with health plans in a variety of ways and were actively helping them advance their strategies in their respective markets while growing our enterprise share.
Now let me update you on our 10-year agreement with Cardinal Health thats built upon our combined sourcing expertise.
As youre aware last month we completed the formation of Red Oak Sourcing the largest generic sourcing entity here in the U.S.
and located in Foxborough Massachusetts.
And at that time the employees and functional responsibilities were transitioned from CVS Caremark and Cardinal to Red Oak Sourcing.
As we worked together to get the venture up and running we further refined certain aspects of our agreement and the structure of the final agreement is slightly different than what weve talked about previously so Dave will walk through how the venture works during his financial review highlighting the three ways in which the venture is expected to deliver value.
So we remain excited about Red Oak and we look forward to its future contributions.
Moving to our PBM business Ill start with an update on the 2015 selling season.
And as we noted on our last call the marketplace has been active.
Pricing remains competitive yet rationale and Im pleased to report that to-date we have been very successful in this selling season.
Gross wins for '15 currently stand at 5.4 billion and span across all client segments while net new business stands at 2.6 billion and this net new number includes business lost through acquisition which makes up more than 60% of the lost business.
These net new business numbers do not account for any impact from our individual Med-D prescription drug plan which Ill touch on a little later.
As for renewals weve completed nearly 70% of the 26 billion in business up for renewal with the retention rate of nearly 97%.
And I think our selling season success reflects our track record of generating savings for our clients through our unique suite of capabilities top of mind for clients this selling season is achieving better control of their specialty spend.
Among our clients specialty represents about 22.5% of total drug spend under the pharmacy benefit and projections have this continuing to grow at a mid-teens rate.
Now all specialty spend including that paid under the medical benefit will likely to grow to as much as 50% of total drug spend by 2018.
So I think you can see its critical that we bring meaningful solutions to the challenges.
Our specialty business remains strong in the second quarter as revenues were up about 53% year-over-year.
In addition to benefits from new business and the addition of Coram another driver of specialty revenue growth was Sovaldi the new hep C drug.
There are estimated to be roughly 3 million people in the U.S.
requiring treatment and as everyone knows the potential costs of treatment is very high.
As you might imagine the growing costs in this category are of significant concern to our clients and we have a number of programs in place to ensure appropriate utilization and cost management.
And as competing products become available late this year and next we will look for opportunities to introduce formulary management to further drive down costs.
At CVS Caremark we continued to differentiate our specialty offerings in the marketplace with a goal of providing a high level of clinical support to patients while managing trend for our clients and driving continued share gains.
As an example our Specialty Connect offering has been rolled out.
It has been well received by both clients and patients and youll recall that Specialty Connect integrates our mail and retail capabilities providing choice and convenience for patients while preserving the central clinical expertise that leads to better health outcomes.
No other PBM can offer this today.
As of late July more than 60 000 specialty patients have been transitioned to this specialty service model which again offers enhanced clinical and benefit support.
The program is generating high satisfaction scores with patients it resonates with clients as a differentiated approach to simplifying the specialty process for members and physicians appreciate the ease of use in getting patients started on therapy.
Our medical pharmacy management program also continues to enjoy strong interest and uptake in the marketplace with several new implementations underway and our site of care offering through our Coram infusion business enables us to provide patients more convenient low cost alternatives to hospital infusions whether at the physicians office a retail infusion site or even the patients home.
The Coram organization has been fully integrated into the specialty group and our new capabilities have been a topic of discussion in the current selling season for specialty business on a carve-in or standalone basis.
So we remain optimistic that we can continue to gain specialty pharmacy share as we work to develop innovative offerings that capitalize on our unique ability to optimize cost quality and access.
Another important way that we manage trend for clients is through our highly proactive approach to formulary management which is youll recall we introduced to the marketplace back in 2011 for the 2012 planned year.
Since then we have updated our formulary on an annual basis with a mission of being able to manage trend for our clients while providing comprehensive cost effective and clinically appropriate options for their plan members.
Now building on our formulary success of the last three years we recently notified our clients that we will be removing 22 products in addition to select diabetes test strips for the 2015 formulary.
And from 2012 through 2015 our rigorous approach to formulary management is expected to result in total savings to our clients of more than $3.5 billion.
Before turning to Retail let me touch briefly on our Med-D PDP SilverScript.
As expected we currently have approximately 3 million lives in our individual PDP.
And for the first half of 2014 our normal monthly attrition has been only partially offset by choosers and auto-assignees.
And as we came out of sanction earlier this year we began to enroll choosers in February and received dual auto assignees in May.
Additionally as the dual demonstration projects continue to progress in certain states we do expect to see some transition of dual eligible lives through the second half of this year.
And while we may recapture some of these lives through our health planned partners it is likely we will lose a modest number of lives as a result.
So we expect to end the year with about 2.9 million lives in our individual PDP and we continue to see significant opportunity to grow the individual PDP business over the long term.
As a matter of fact last Thursday we received the preliminary benchmark results from CMS for 2015 and Im pleased to report that SilverScript was below the benchmark and therefore qualified in 32 of the 34 regions.
The only regions we didnt qualify were Alaska and Nevada consistent with prior years.
So the strong benchmark results should enable us to retain the vast majority of the auto-assignees we currently serve so were very pleased with the outcome.
Moving on to the Retail business following the effects of the difficult weather and flu season that we experienced in Q1 total same-store sales reaccelerated sequentially in Q2 increasing 3.3%.
Pharmacy same-store sales increased 5% versus the year ago and were negatively impacted by about 160 basis points due to recent generic introductions.
Pharmacy comps were also negatively impacted by approximately 130 basis points due to the transfer of specialty scripts from our Retail segment to our PBM segment as a result of the new Specialty Connect offering and Dave will talk more about that later.
Pharmacy script comps increased 3.9% on a 30-day equivalent basis and we continued to gain pharmacy share.
I want to touch on a topic that has received a lot of attention lately based on some competitor commentary that being generic inflation and pharmacy reimbursement pressures.
Youll recall that when we gave our 2014 guidance last December we told you that we expected continued pressure on pharmacy reimbursement and the market is generally consistent with what we anticipated.
As to generic inflation while the cost of goods inflation does exist on some generic items it is not material in the context of our overall purchasing volume and again was generally within our expectations.
On balance the deflationary nature of the generic pharmaceutical market remains intact and overall our pharmacy margins increased this quarter for multiple reasons were in line with our expectations and again Dave will talk more about this in the financial review.
As for the front store business comps decreased 0.4%.
Our front store comps were positively impacted by approximately 80 basis points from the shift of the Easter holiday.
And as plan for exiting the tobacco category this fall we have begun to see a sales impact.
Our front store comps would have been approximately 110 basis points higher if you exclude tobacco in the estimated associated basket sales.
Now adjusting for this tobacco impact and the Easter shift front store comps were roughly flat in the quarter sequentially improving from Q1.
Front store traffic declined as customers continued to aggregate their trips and at the same time our average basket size continued to increase reflecting the strength of our loyalty program and the personalization it enables us to offer.
And consistent with our prior statements we are making responsible investments in profitable promotions and remain committed to not chasing empty sales.
Driving higher margin store brand sales continues to be another area of focus.
We saw notable growth in share gains and store brands this quarter with store brands as a percent of front store sales increasing about 80 basis points to 18%.
And we see significant opportunities to continue to expand our share of strong brand products by building on our core equities and health and beauty while also seeking opportunistic growth in other areas.
Additionally in order to drive better results we continued to explore innovative personalization strategies through insights from ExtraCare.
As an example during the second quarter we expanded our send to card digital coupon option for all ExtraCare personalized offers that were historically only available either at the ExtraCare coupon center or on the bottom of a customers register receipt.
Adoption has been very strong with over half of our registered users already trying this new feature and we also continue to turbocharge our personalized email promotions with our active email subscriber list growing 21% versus the same quarter last year.
Turning to our retail drugstore program we opened 34 new stores relocated eight and closed four resulting in 30 net new stores in the quarter and were on track to achieve square footage growth of 2% to 3% for the year.
In the quarter we recently announced that we have a definitive agreement to purchase Navarro Discount Pharmacy.
Navarro is the largest Hispanic-owned drug store chain in the U.S.
with 33 retail drugstore locations in the Miami-Dade county area in addition to Navarro Health Services a specialty pharmacy serving patients with complex or chronic diseases.
We expect to maintain the current product mix and well learn from our Navarro colleagues about Hispanic marketing and merchandizing and we expect these lessons to be transferable to certain other CVS markets.
The Navarro brand is one of the most recognizable in the Hispanic marketplace.
We plan to retain it.
If you recall we adopted a similar strategy in maintaining the Longs Drugs name for our acquired locations in Hawaii.
That has been successful.
And we expect to complete the Navarro transaction later this year.
Let me touch briefly on MinuteClinic which continues on its healthy growth trajectory.
In the second quarter revenues increased 24% versus a year ago.
We opened 32 net new clinics in the quarter bringing our total to 60 year-to-date and keeping us on track to open at least 150 new clinics this year.
We currently operate 860 clinics in 28 states plus the District of Columbia and in recent news a new partnership with USA Football named MinuteClinic their official retail medical clinic and sports physical provider and we will offer a special discount for sports physicals to more than 1 million young athletes and their coaches.
CVS Caremark and MinuteClinic also added four new health system alliances during the quarter and another four in July bringing our total number of affiliations with major U.S.
health systems to 40.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
As I typically do Ill begin this morning by highlighting how our disciplined approach to capital allocations continues to enhance shareholder value.
Ill follow that discussion with a detailed review of our strong second quarter followed by an update on our guidance.
So lets begin.
During the second quarter we continued our long track record of paying quarterly dividends to our shareholders with payments totaling $322 million.
With a strong earnings outlook for the remainder of this year we expect our dividend payout ratio to surpass 25% at some point during 2014.
Were making continued good progress towards achieving our 35% payout target by 2018.
Additionally we repurchased 16 million shares for approximately $1.2 billion at an average price of $74.91 per share.
Year-to-date we repurchased more than 27 million shares or $2 billion and we still expect to complete at least $4 billion of share repurchases with the full year of 2014.
So between dividends and share repurchases weve returned more than $1.5 billion to our shareholders in the second quarter alone and have returned more than $2.6 billion during the first half of this year.
Our goal has been to return more than $5 billion in 2014 and we remain on track to meet that goal.
As Larry said we generated nearly $400 million of free cash in the second quarter bringing our total for the first six months of the year to approximately $2.2 billion.
The key driver continues to be our healthy growth in earnings coupled with improvements in our working capital performance fueled mainly by the PBMs growth.
All-in we continue to expect to generate free cash between $5.5 billion and $5.8 billion in 2014.
Turning to the income statement.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations came in at $1.13 per share up 16.5% versus LY and $0.02 above the high end of our guidance range.
The strong performance reflects solid growth across all of our operating segments.
The retail segment produced results at the high-end of our expectations while the enterprises outperformance was driven primarily by better-than-expected results from the PBM.
GAAP diluted EPS was $1.06 per share and now let me quickly walk you through our results.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the second quarter increased 10.7% or approximately $3.4 billion to $34.6 billion.
PBM net revenues increased 16.2% or approximately $3 billion to $21.8 billion.
The strong performance was driven by net new business specialty pharmacy growth drug inflation and product mix.
Offsetting this to some degree were lower mail choice claims reflecting the decline in traditional mail order volumes and an increase in generic dispensing.
The PBMs generic dispensing rate increased approximately 180 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 82%.
Now revenues in the retail business increased 4.5% in the quarter or approximately $730 million to $16.9 billion.
Sales in the retail segment were better-than-expected driven primarily by branded drug inflation as well as volumes.
Retail GDR increased by approximately 160 basis points versus the second quarter of '13 to 84%.
Let me point out that with the second quarter results we have begun to experience the type of shift between segments that are highlighted at past Analyst Days.
As you know our focus isnt limited to just one channel mail or retail as it is for many of our competitors.
Our channel and business segment agnostic offerings will enhance the performance of the enterprise and sometimes at the expense of one individual segment.
For that reason recall that we have been suggesting that you focus on the growth of the enterprise rather than the individual segments to best gauge our success.
And with the implementation of Specialty Connect this past quarter we essentially transferred revenues out of the retail pharmacy segment and into the PBM segment as the PBM took over the dispensing of nearly all specialty prescriptions filled by CVS Caremark.
As anticipated the transition had a larger impact on sales dollars than scripts given the high cost of specialty drugs.
The impact on sales dollars in the second quarter was approximately $145 million and this impact will grow larger as we ramp up in the third and fourth quarters.
Obviously this shift dampened year-over-year top line growth at retail while enhancing revenue growth in the PBM.
And as Larry said it had an approximately 130 basis point negative impact on retail pharmacy comps but it had an insignificant impact on retail script volume.
Now turning to gross margin.
The consolidated company posted an 18.3% margin in the quarter a decline of approximately 40 basis points compared to Q2 of '13.
This margin decline was the result of a mix shift as the lower margin PBM segment grew faster than the retail segment.
Both operating segments saw their margins improve.
Additionally margins benefitted from the finalization of Californias Medicaid reimbursement rates which I referenced on our last earnings call.
This finalization benefitted retail gross margin by $53 million in the quarter and PBM gross margin by $16 million.
This impact was consistent with the guidance we provided earlier this year.
Within the PBM segment gross margins increased approximately 35 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 5.5% while gross profit dollars increased approximately 24% year-over-year.
The increase year-over-year was primarily driven by growth in our specialty business favorable purchasing economics and the increase in GDR.
We continue to see these positive margin drivers partially offset by typical client price compression.
Now gross margin in the retail segment was 31.4% up 40 basis points over LY.
Gross profit dollars increased 5.9% year-over-year.
Pharmacy margins improved in the quarter as we benefitted from the increase in GDR and the finalization of the reduction in Californias Medicaid reimbursement rates that I noted earlier.
Our pharmacy margins notably improved even without the impact of this rate finalization.
At the same time we saw front store margins decline as anticipated in the quarter driven mainly by the markdown of some tobacco products as well as the unexpected bankruptcy of one of our vendors.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by approximately 50 basis points from Q2 of '13 to 11.9% while total SG&amp;A dollars grew by 6.4%.
The PBM segments expenses grew by 10% and its SG&amp;A rate was 1.5% an improvement of approximately 10 basis points versus LY.
In the retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales declined approximately 20 basis points to 21.3% while expenses grew by 5.6%.
This reflects the deleveraging effect of generics as well as the impact of Specialty Connect as the retail segment transitions sales to the PBM segment without a corresponding expense reduction.
Within the corporate segment expenses were up $29 million to $205 million.
This increase is primarily related to benefit costs as well as strategic initiatives.
Now adding it all up operating margin for the total enterprise improved approximately five basis points to 6.4%.
Operating margin in the PBM improved approximately 45 basis points to 4%.
Now operating margin at retail improved about 20 basis points to 10.1%.
For the quarter PBM operating profit was strong growing 30.1% which is higher than expected.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 6.5% at the high end of our expectations.
Now going below the line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter increased approximately $32 million from last year to $158 million.
The debt we issued in the fourth quarter of LY was the primary driver of this increase.
Our weighted average share count was 1.17 billion shares and finally our effective tax rate was 39.2%.
Now let me update you on our guidance.
As always Ill focus on the highlights.
You can find the additional details of our guidance in the slide presentation that we posted on our website earlier this morning.
As we stated in the press release we are both raising and narrowing our full year 2014 EPS ranges given our strong results to-date.
We currently expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share in 2014 in the range of $4.43 to $4.51 reflecting strong year-over-year growth of 11.75% to 14% and thats excluding the gain of approximately $0.04 associated with the legal settlement in the third quarter of '13.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $4.16 to $4.24.
While we beat the high end of our guidance in the second quarter by $0.02 we increased the top of the range for the year by $0.01.
This delta reflects a few moving pieces among them the minor shift in timing associated with the fixed payment we will receive from Cardinal as well as a slightly higher tax rate.
As Larry said the structure of the final agreement is a bit different from what we have previously described.
So let me explain how the venture works.
There are three ways in which the arrangement can provide value to us.
First as we previously stated we will receive a fixed quarterly payment from Cardinal that recognizes the greater relative purchasing volume that CVS Caremark has today.
Under the final agreement we will receive 39 quarterly payments of $25.6 million beginning in the fourth quarter of this year rather than 40 quarterly payments of 25 million which would have begun in the third quarter of this year.
There is no change in the overall value of fixed payments.
Its simply a timing shift that more accurately reflects the operational ramp up associated with this venture.
Second there is a new component to our arrangement providing the potential for additional predetermined quarterly payments from Cardinal to CVS Caremark beginning in the third quarter of 2015.
These payments will only occur to the extent that certain milestones are achieved.
And finally as we have explained previously we believe there will be incremental value to our current generic procurement created through the combination of our purchasing volumes.
So while the fixed payments will now begin a quarter later than originally planned the overall value of the fixed payments remains the same and the potential for incremental value resulting from the venture remains high.
So we continue to be excited about this venture and we look forward to its future contributions.
With that turning back to 2014 full year guidance we now expect consolidated net revenue growth to be in the range of 8% to 9% raising the midpoint by approximately 260 basis points over our prior guidance.
Weve increased our top line outlook in the PBM and now expect revenue growth of 13.75% to 14.75% approximately 5 percentage points higher than our prior guidance.
This revised guidance reflects our expectations for better-than-expected growth within specialty pharmacy fueled by a combination of both inflation and new product mix.
Additionally taken into account our performance in the second quarter we are narrowing the top line outlook at retail raising the bottom and the range and we now expect growth of 1.25% to 2%.
And consistent with that outlook we are also revising our guidance for total same-store sales and now expect growth between 0.25% and 1%.
Keep in mind that these anticipated revenue growth rates reflect our expectations around the impact from our decision to exit the tobacco category.
Larry mentioned the impact to Q2 comps as we approach our target date to be out of the category in the fall we expect the impact to grow.
For the full year of 2014 the impact will be as high as 400 basis points from front store comps.
And given what weve seen to-date we expect front store comps could be negatively impacted by 400 to 500 basis points in Q3 and roughly double that in Q4.
So when you lay out your models please keep this in mind.
Guidance for operating profit growth in our segments has also been revised.
We are narrowing retail operating profit by 25 basis points on both ends.
We now expect retail operating profit to increase 7.25% to 8.5% year-over-year.
And in the PBM given the outperformance in Q2 and increased confidence in the back half of the year we now expect operating profit to increase 12.5% to 14.5%.
As for our tax rate this year we now expect it to be approximately 39.4% with the narrowing and raising of our EPS guidance range operating cash flow guidance also changes.
We now expect between 7.2 billion and 7.5 billion of operating cash flow an increase of $200 million.
And as I said before our free cash flow guidance for the year remains in the range of $5.5 billion to $5.8 billion as we expect capital expenditures to be slightly higher than we originally planned.
Now in the third quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.11 to $1.14 per share reflecting growth of 5.25% to 8.25% versus Q3 of '13 again after removing the gain associated with the legal settlement from last years results.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $1.04 to $1.07 in the third quarter.
Within the retail segment we expect revenues to grow $0.25 to 1.75% versus the third quarter of last year.
Adjusted script comps are expected to increase in the range of 3.75% to 4.75% while we expect total same-store sales in the range of down 1% to up 0.5%.
As I noted before if sales of tobacco and the associated baskets are excluded our expectations for front store comps in the quarter would be 400 to 500 basis points higher.
In the PBM we expect revenue growth of 14.25% and 15.25% driven by continued strong growth in specialty mix and inflation.
We expect retail operating profit growth of 7% to 9% in the third quarter.
We expect PBM operating profit growth of 1.5% to 4.5% in the third quarter.
So in closing this was a great quarter with strong financial results across the board.
And as a result we both raised and narrowed our guidance for the full year and we continued to expect strong free cash flow and to deploy it in a way that maximizes value to our shareholders.
With that let me turn it back over to Larry.
Okay.
Thanks Dave.
I couldnt be happier with the work of our colleagues they work that theyre doing to provide good service to our clients and help people on their path to better health while delivering strong results for our shareholders.
I think as weve talked this morning and in prior meetings our unmatched enterprise assets are enabling us to provide innovative integrated solutions in breakthrough products and as the healthcare environment evolves we are uniquely positioned to address the quality affordability and accessibility challenges in the healthcare system today.
So were highly focused on the unique opportunities we see for growth and well continue to take an active and growing role in shaping the future of healthcare.
So with that lets go ahead and open it up for your questions.
Operator? Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
Our first question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Hi Larry.
So a strategic question.
When you think about Specialty Connect how is that starting to impact your dialogue with potential customers? And with that in mind how do you think that will impact your ability to reduce drug spend and does it become a game-changer in terms of market share on the PBM side with new accounts? Good morning John.
Ill start and then I think Jon will probably jump in as well.
And I think that we really have a surround sound specialty program okay.
I mean we highlighted Specialty Connect this morning and I think thats one important component but I think our ability to not just manage the specialty drug but manage the specialty patient I think is what is the real differentiator in the marketplace.
And Ill let Jon pick up from there and talk about the various ways were doing that.
Yes so John as I talk to clients about Specialty Connect what they really like is opening up the access because specialty has historically been a mail order only access for their members with some retail outlets but not really that accessible.
And as clients become more focused on it theyre really excited about this capability and they think of it like Maintenance Choice that as you know has been very successful in the marketplace.
And one of our customers is also a physician so as we talk to physicians they like the fact that were opening up convenience for their patients.
And specialty today has its business with our PBM clients but theres also a big open market in Medicare and fee-for-service Medicaid that again physicians have the ability to influence where those members go.
So we expect to grow within our PBM base through clients selecting us because of these integrated capabilities but we also believe were going to get a disproportionate amount of referrals from physicians as well.
Okay.
How much of an issue is compliance in that business and therefore is that a significant opportunity on the broader cost side? As you look at it adherence  when you say compliance Im thinking adherence to the medication.
Yes.
Historically retail has performed very much under what traditional specialty pharmacies have been able to perform at.
And with Specialty Connect we have achieved the same levels of adherence with our Specialty Connect patients that we have with our specialty pharmacies because were able to connect all the clinical capabilities and back-ins of specialty.
I know that is a concern that pharma had when we talked to them but weve showed them results and have actually demonstrated an even higher level of adherence because now patients can select which channel they go to.
So we think weve solved that and thats a real benefit.
Okay thank you.
Thanks John.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for the questions.
Larry I want to go back to your comments on prescription utilization.
You touched on a little bit of what you were seeing from ACA and Medicaid expansion.
As I look at the script growth in the quarter 3.9% exceeding the guidance it looks like the guide for the next quarter is 3.75% to 4.75% so a little bit of acceleration.
Could you maybe just parse out a little bit what youre seeing from ACA but also from the broader market utilization? Bob I think the broader market I think were seeing utilization pretty flat I think from the exchanges I think as had previously talked I think were seeing more of a benefit coming out of the Medicaid expansion.
I think theres still some uncertainty as we mentioned in our prepared remarks in terms of when you look at the exchange population just how many of those are incremental to health insurance coverage.
So I think weve talked about the fact that we see '14 as a transition year.
As we mentioned earlier we do believe there is a modest benefit more of it coming from Medicaid in '14 but I think that we certainly see this ramping up as we move into '15 and beyond.
Thats helpful.
And then I guess just a quick follow up on the formulary changes you commented on I think at the Analyst Day.
You mentioned that in 2014 youd save clients about $1 billion.
I believe the update today was from 2012 to 2015 its 3.5.
I guess just maybe if you could isolate the most recent changes and what kind of savings those would generate? And then I guess more broadly and more importantly how successful have you been in shifting clients to these more restrictive formularies? Bob I mean were not going to provide any more granular information in terms of  to the first part of the your question.
I think in terms of the second part we have been able to manage transition across members as well as physicians in a very seamless fashion recognize that.
The formulary changes that were talking about affect a very small percent of our member base.
And that has allowed us to do a lot of Ill call it seamless transition in terms of making it a nonevent for the patient as well as the physician.
This is Jon.
The only thing that I would add is that we expect pharmacy trend year-over-year growth to the pharmacy spend to grow due to continued AWP inflation increase in utilization that we just spoke about and the growth in specialty sourcing and clients very open and much more receptive than they had been historically about narrowing formularies.
Were about to about 95 exclusions now.
Ill tell you as were making these decisions and these decisions are made through a clinical filter thats reviewed by our P&amp;T Committee we are still generating tremendous value for our clients each year and we think there continues to be opportunity particularly in specialty.
Great.
Thanks for the comment.
Our next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler with Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I have one question about the frontend and then Eric Percher will have a question.
I know youve talked about the weakness in traffic in the frontend as a function of people consolidating trips.
I was just wondering if you could talk  and of course your own initiatives but if you could talk a little bit about what you think is going on both with the consumer are they in fact pulling back and whether youve seen any changes in the competitive environment; anybody responding to weak traffic? Meredith I dont think were seeing any changes in the consumer.
I think that the consumer continues to be a cautious purchaser of products.
At the same time I dont think weve seen a change in the competitive environment.
We still see an awful lot of promotion across competitors.
And we mentioned earlier were continuing to be very disciplined about and quite frankly find that sweet spot.
Oftentimes we talk about the art and science in terms of investment spending to drive traffic but to be able to do that in such a way that were driving profitable sales.
I would just jump in and agree with that Meredith.
I think its fairly consistent with what weve been talking about in the last couple of calls.
Consumers are still be a cautious.
Where we really  our focus is health beauty and personal care and we continue to be encouraged by our performance in those categories.
Clearly our decision on tobacco drove changes as you look at our share in the general mechanize business but overall I would say competitors continue to be promoting more than they were last year and more than we are so were watching that carefully.
Were really trying to make smart choices so that at the end of the day were driving profitable growth.
Great.
And Eric you have a question right.
Yes quickly on Specialty Connect are most of the lives that are moving over from the pharmacy to PBM open market today is that primarily who served at the pharmacy? And then the lives that we see in Specialty Connect beyond the movement over have you begun to see traction in expanding the program or is that over the next several months? Hi Eric.
So the mix of customers that are moving over is a combination of open and lives that we have.
And as we think about growing Specialty Connect its going to be by driving a higher share of open lives which well do through working with physicians and through new client wins as new clients decide to move to us because of all of our integrated capabilities Specialty Connect which is one of those.
Eric the other thing that I think youll find interesting Jon touched on or maybe an analogy of Specialty Connect to Maintenance Choice and what we have seen out of the gate is about 50% of the customers choose to pick up the specialty script at retail which ironically is very consistent with what we saw from Maintenance Choice when we first highlighted the program a few years back.
That is interesting.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Can you give us some additional color on the growth at 90-day at retail? And where do you think we are in kind of again that market shift? Ricky we have continued to see accelerated growth at 90 days scripts.
I would say its growing much faster than the 30-day bucket if you will.
Today it represents about  I think its 29% of our retail prescription pie if you will.
Okay.
And when we think about the opportunity as the opportunity for that is kind of like 50% to 60% of scripts youre presenting kind of like the maintenance script.
Is that how we should be thinking about it? Yes I mean I think you have it right in terms of how youre thinking about the maintenance bucket of scripts versus the acute side and yes I think its reasonable to expect it to continue its growth trajectory as weve seen the last couple of years.
Okay.
And then the one follow up on generic inflation.
Obviously youve done a very good job in mitigating the impact.
Can you share with us your expectations for generic inflation for the remainder of the year and any thoughts if this is kind of like sustainable trend that will continue just kind of like longer term? Hi Ricky.
This is Dave.
We dont really provide a forecast for generic inflation.
Ill just make on comment just from the nature of the generic marketplace and were encouraged obviously with the joint venture that weve created with Cardinal but also encouraged that we believe strongly that the generic marketplace is long term a deflationary market and we believe that were well positioned to work hard in that marketplace to lower our cost and also lower the cost for our clients and the patients that we serve.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Ricky.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
So first wanted some clarity on the PBM operating growth in the third quarter just remind us what  its quite a bit less than we saw in the second quarter so I was hoping to just get reminded on why we get some deceleration there? Hi Scott this is Dave.
If you recall back to kind of even to Analyst Day we fully expected that Q3 was going to be our softest quarter from a growth perspective.
So this is very much in line with that expectation.
Clearly the cadence to profitability is tied to really two events is the time to break open generics and when they overlapped LY.
And secondly the timing of profitability as we cycle through Medicare Part D.
So both of those events are impacting Q3 and consistent as we thought they would impact Q3.
Thats perfect.
And then my second question really goes to I guess thinking about the asset and the asset turns as we move into the future not next year but as we move out.
It seems like CVS Caremark is uniquely positioned to kind of improve their asset turns with the clinics with Specialty Connect.
Can you guys take us out into the future? What will a store if you really want to call it a store three to five years look like as we move out? You guys have any thoughts around that.
I know its kind of a high in the sky question but I was wondering if you had some thoughts there? Scott I think Ill start and others may jump in here.
But I think you hypothesis is correct.
Its going to evolve from what exist today and weve talked a lot about the fixed asset base within the store and the fact that that next prescription has a disproportionate flow through to the bottom line okay.
At the same time we do see opportunities to extend the pharmacy experience into the front store and I think that Helena has begun some work some exciting work in terms of the opportunities that that creates.
So were certainly not in a position where weve cracked the code on that or were ready to talk to about it other than the fact that I do think that you will see something different in the future from what you see today.
Scott this is Dave.
I think the most at least mid-term opportunity we have to improve asset turns if you will first is  ones kind of the just the growth of the service model to the degree that we grow services in our outlets.
We do that without deploying a bunch of capital from an asset perspective.
And then secondly as we talked about many times is we do have opportunities from an inventory perspective and making sure that we maximize Id say the supply chain across all of our channels will be important to us over the long term.
All right guys.
Thanks very much for taking my questions.
Thanks Scott.
Thanks Scott.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Thank you.
Jon I was wondering if I could just maybe start with some questions around the selling season 5.4 billion of gross new wins.
Can you just talk about what people are buying this year? Are you seeing Maintenance Choice specialty? Is there anywhere that you can give us some metrics around who those new clients are and what programs they bought for 2015? Well Lisa were obviously very happy with this years selling season and when you look at the mix of clients I think its very balanced with employers health plans and government business.
And I cant really point to really any one program that has moved up in their priority other than specialty but we now continue to expand our integrated offerings and many of which are unique such as Maintenance Choice and Specialty Connect Pharmacy Advisor and MinuteClinic and all those combined resonate.
And then when we talk about our ability to be able to touch members and influence their behavior and impact outcomes that results in lower prices to the client that continues to resonate.
And I think  Ive probably seen a little more interest in specialty which has become the top priority in the marketplace and I believe our assets are unmatched.
We talked about Specialty Connect earlier but we also have Accordant which is a rare disease management company that we link to our specialty offering and that treats not just rare specialty disease state but it treats the comorbidities.
And most of these patients have other diseases that theyre dealing with.
Weve talked in the past about NovoLogix have to spend in the medical benefit not really being managed.
We have that capability.
Home infusion people are very interested in as well moving people out of expensive hospital settings into their homes or infusion clinics.
I guess really what Im trying to get at is more on the upside Jon as we think about 2015 and things that theyve signed up for how does it impact profitability of those clients? So do the majority sign up for your specialty programs? Did you see people that were electing to do Maintenance Choice Im trying to get some more of the finance side of it? I would say its pretty consistent with what weve seen in prior years.
With health plans probably dont take as many of our programs as employers do.
W are seeing more uptake in our formulary strategy than weve seen in the past.
Maintenance Choice 2.0 were beginning to see uptake in the health plans that historically havent really emphasized a mail benefit.
But I think I would think about it Lisa as consistently what weve historically say.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thanks Lisa.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen with Leerink Partners.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Can you please talk about the joint venture with Cardinal? And I guess there is some new aspects to it like just on a very high level whats sort of the nature of those incremental milestones might be? And Im assuming that if those milestones are met it would mean more earnings for all parties involved.
Thanks.
David good morning.
I guess Ill just start by saying that when we formalized the JV agreement we had established some guiding principles that spoke to the goals of the entity to reduce cost for our clients our customers while making the supply chain more efficient and to create win-win opportunities such that theres equity and fairness in the value that gets created.
So obviously over the past six months weve had a lot more time to dig into the data.
And it simply made sense to modify the agreement with those guiding principles that I outlined in mind.
Were not going to provide any granularity around some of those milestones but I think we have had a terrific relationship with Cardinal for many years.
I think that thats what led to the JV being created and I couldnt be more pleased with how the teams from CVS Caremark and Cardinal have come together in the spirit of how do we improve efficiency and drive down costs.
And I think were off to a terrific start.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Larry and Dave and thanks for his my question.
I just wanted to quick check I heard one point that you brought up.
Did you say you expected long-term generic drugs to be inflationary or deflationary? Part of that broke up on my end.
Im sorry very much deflationary George.
Okay.
And then maybe delving into the prepared comments a bit more.
It sounds like you're seeing inflation in the small book of the business and then deflation significant deflation in the rest of the book.
And I would ask are you seeing that deflation in acquisition costs? And is that deflation finding its way all the way to kind of the list price or the AWP price from your perspective? George this is Dave maybe Ill start.
Clearly what were signed up to do is our purpose in life is to work to reduce cost for the clients that we serve and the members that we serve that either use this via mail order or use this in our retail outlets or use this in various and sundry other matters.
And so when we look at generic inflation our focus is to control that and to push down those cost to goods sold at this point in time.
George I think as Dave pointed out overall we see a deflationary nature in the generic environment and were really not going to comment on specific products or AWPs.
Okay all right.
Then maybe just a quick tack on.
From what we hear you guys have been active in significant selling success tacking MinuteClinic onto health plans with the zero co-pay option this selling season.
I guess can you talk about expected growth in MinuteClinic as we look out to 15? I think as we pointed out this morning we continue to see significant growth.
Some of that is organic in terms of the ongoing growth of the existing clinics and some of that is being driving by our expansion.
We said earlier well open up on 150 clinics this year.
I think it certainly is a discussion in the selling season.
I think that kind of the ticket to the game metrics are being right on price and service but weve got a lot of other elements with which we can offer clients the MinuteClinic option being one and one that its getting a lot of attention.
All right I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Ross Muken with ISI Group.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys and congrats.
If we look at sort of the pacing of wins in the selling season one of your competitors was sort of suggesting that as it sort of tailed off and then as we look into the out-year the sort of momentum of their peers inclusive of you was sort of waning.
If we looked at like your hit rate  your win rate over the course of the selling season was it fairly consistent? Did you feel like you gained momentum as you put up some of these big wins? It seems like more recently we've seen a number of public names of size.
I'm just trying to get a sense for kind of tone and how you feel like the business had momentum through the most recent RPs you been in? Ross so I would say were continuing to win in the marketplace.
I think this year has been particularly good and I think it has a lot to do with everything I was talking about to Lisa with our integrated assets our ability to deliver cost has a lot to do with what we do with generics and our formulary strategy and the fact that we focus on service to both our clients and their members.
So they like our story and were very happy with the wins that weve had this year.
And maybe Dave M&amp;A activity has kind of picked up.
You guys have obviously been quite selective and strategic the last few years.
As you look at sort of the environment both in assets here and maybe also abroad how would you kind of characterize the pipeline and your sort of intent to maybe deploy a little bit more of the balance sheet? Obviously you've done a great job on returning free cash but you've also been historically pretty prudent on the tuck-in side.
Yes Ross obviously M&amp;A has been part of our DNA for a long time in our company.
Weve been very clear that as we think about capital deployment one area to deploy capital is in kind of investing backward in organically in our business and we will continue to do that.
I would say that at the same time were going to be to your point very disciplined in how we approach the market.
If you look at our asset base today we dont have any glaring gaps or holes in capabilities at this point in time.
But as we said to a degree that we can bolt-on assets that make sense that we have line of sight to both synergies and returns well do that.
And I think that the market is still active in that perspective.
Great.
And congrats again guys.
Thanks Ross.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So just one other quick one on the PBM selling season success that you've had I'm just curious with it now 70% complete can you draw any sort of conclusion that the decision to stop the retail tobacco sales may have helped you win some PBM business? I'm curious whether this has come up frequently in RFPs and investment (indiscernible) and has anybody cited that they chose you specifically because of that decision just curious on that? Thanks.
Steve I think its hard to point any one win and attribute to the tobacco decision.
I can tell you that its had a lot of discussion with our clients.
Obviously recognizing our clients and the fact that theyre working hard to get their members or their employees to stop smoking they have applauded our decision.
Listen I think its one of those intangibles that again back to my earlier point about you got to be right on the basics and then once youre right on the basics there I think we have a lot of intangibles that collectively I think become something very meaningful in the clients eyes.
Okay.
Just one other quick one on the formulary restrictions; pretty topical this week but it seems a couple years ago this caused a little bit of negative PR for CVS back in 2011 2012.
But now it seems like these changes are helping you or at least the negativity seems almost nonexistent now.
So I guess I'm just curious any thoughts or color you may have on why the psychology may have changed a little bit among your customers on the better receptivity to formulary changes now let's say versus a few years ago? Steve its a great question.
I think if we rewind three of four years I think what we learned with that decision was the strategy was right.
And I remember talking  as we talked to clients back in late 2011 or early '12 the issue that they had that created the negatively was from an execution largely the timing of the communication thats where we were out of sync.
We werent lined up with their benefit cycle.
So I think once we made that course correction which was an easy one to fix I think that all the noise subsided.
Okay that's great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Costa with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate all the discussion about 2015.
But moving back to the tobacco decision is your view that it's still going to be about 2 billion in annualized sales that would be impacted by that decision or has that number changed given the fact you talked about sort of a double the 400 to 500 basis point impact on same-store for the fourth quarter? Yes were still tracking very much towards that $2 billion.
The results were seeing are in line with what we expected and we said early on it would have a $0.06 to $0.09 impact this year and were tracking towards that.
And in terms of the impact on the same-store in the fourth quarter? That seems like that would be a bigger number.
If you just look at what we communicated we said that in the third quarter that the exit of the tobacco category would be somewhere between 400 and 500 basis points to front store comp impact negatively impact.
And that rate would essentially double as we cycle into Q4.
And so thats essentially how you should think about modeling the progression of that.
And keep in mind that the $2 billion reflected tobacco sales companion items within that basket and that is a full year revenue number.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Just one left.
Do you have any guess or forecast in terms of what your share of the Caremark accounts could be by year end? You mean dispensing share within CVS pharmacy? Yes CVS market share with Caremark plans.
It was at 31% at the end of last year.
Where does that trend to? Yes we dont forecast that and disclose that.
Would it be something youd give us at the end of the year at the Investor Day? Typically its something that we discuss at Investor Day yes.
Thank you.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thanks for taking the question.
Actually I have another question on the exclusion lists.
It seems like this time around from what I've read is you've kind of adopted more of also using prior authorization versus outright exclusion.
Just curious on how you kind of make that decision? And then secondly how do you manage for drugs that you exclude where companies  where the manufacturers then try to work around that? How do you communicate with your clients and how do you stop to make sure that your plans don't really  that you don't end up actually paying for that or your employers? Yes.
So Charles as far as manufacturers working around it I think thats the beauty of the exclusion program.
They used to try to work around our formulary tiering through co-pay coupons.
So once the drug is excluded the member will have to pay 100% so it would be hard for a manufacturer to work around that.
Our strategy around excluding has really not changed.
Weve always had prior authorizations.
We do have the ability if a physician feels like a particular drug has a medical necessity that they have the ability to get to that drug but its a very very small percent of patients that have physicians that want to get them on a particular drug.
So its really a safety outlook for them.
Great.
And then just a follow up just on that in general.
It seems like this is an area that not only yourself but some of your competitors are starting to really adopt more aggressively.
Do you see that this is the next big tool for you to use and to really help manage costs down? So how do you see these lists expanding over time? Is this a big opportunity for you? Well we have the template exclusion that weve been talking about but we also have more aggressive formularies that clients can opt into.
So the next step up excludes 170 drugs and then theres another step that excludes 300 drugs which essentially is all generics.
So we do see as we move into the out years were going to be moving towards some of the more restrictive formularies that we think clients are going to be very interested in.
So theres a lot more work and a lot more runway here.
Great.
Thank you.
Okay.
Well take two more questions please.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Could you give us what the specialty growth was organically excluding acquisitions? I dont think we have that Mark.
We can Hi Mark.
This is Dave.
I dont know that we really had any significant acquisitions in that number.
Most of that is of [Coram] (ph).
But Coram is in there right? Other than that.
Okay.
I dont know that off the top of my head.
The growth rate is still organically significant.
Okay.
And then maybe just give us on the generics a little timing on how you look at the break open market for generics here in the next 12 months or so? Maybe by quarter where you think well get some better opportunities on generic margins? Yes.
This is Dave maybe Ill touch that.
I just want to say that the generic launch and break open schedules if you kind of watch the market those launch dates continue to evolve a bit.
Some move out some move in even since what we talked about at Analyst Day.
And if you look at it many of the '14 launches have been in flux.
As we look into '15 I think some of the break open generics will look a little bit lower than we originally planned when we look back at Analyst Day in December of last year.
But I would say its still very fluid at this point in time.
Well continue to kind of assess the situation and give you updates as it becomes pertinent.
And second half of '14 versus the first half of '14 better or worse for generics? You got to think about how we cycle to LY so if you look at the cycle of our back half for this year to back half of last year is a little worse.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Okay.
Last question.
Our final question comes from the line of Frank Morgan with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was hoping to get a little bit more color on the PDP (indiscernible) for the balance of the year is there any chance that there might be conservatism in the assumptions about the auto-assignees or the choosers you're taking? And basically give us a longer term view how you see next year playing out as well? Thanks.
Hi Frank.
This is Dave maybe Ill start here.
I think if you look just from a PDP perspective the number of lives the real I guess opportunity to gain lives is early in the year.
So I think if you look to the balance of the year I dont think theres a material change or opportunity that presents itself in the marketplace.
As we cycle into '15 I think were encouraged by what we heard from a benchmark perspective.
I think that although thats what weve heard we dont really know what the opportunities are at this point in time.
I think we have a very attractive product as we cycle into '15 but as far as the auto-assignees well need to understand more fully how the market will evolve and we wont know that for several more months yet.
Thank you.
Okay.
And just limping back on Marks question on specialty in our remarks we said specialty growth was 53%.
If you back Coram out of that number the growth was around 40% so just bringing closure to that.
So with that let me thank everyone.
I know this was a bit of a long call but a lot of information and thanks for your continued interest in CVS Caremark.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to CVS Healths Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday November 4 2014.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead maam.
Thank you Carlos.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Im here this morning with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will review our third quarter results as well as guidance for the fourth quarter and year.
Jon Roberts President of PBM; and Helena Foulkes President of the Retail Business are also with us today and will participate in a Q&amp;A session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow-up so we can provide more callers with the chance to ask their question.
Now I want to take a moment to remind you that our annual Analyst Day will take place on the morning of Tuesday December 16 in New York City.
At that time youll have the opportunity to hear from several members of our senior management team who will provide 2015 guidance as well as a comprehensive update on our growth strategy.
If youd like to attend and havent already signed up please contact me as soon as possible as remaining space is limited.
The meeting will also be simulcast on our website for those of you who are unable to be there in person.
Now I have another important item you to note.
Please keep in mind that in order to provide a better view of our underlying performance our results and guidance for the full year as well as all of the year-over-year growth rates we discuss today are calculated after excluding two items; these include the gain from the legal settlement in the third quarter of last year and the loss from the early extinguishment of debt in the third quarter of this year.
As a reminder the debt extinguishment and the associated cost in this years third quarter were not included in our guidance.
Now just before this call we posted a slide presentation on our website which will footnote where these adjustments have been made.
The slide summarizes the information you will hear today as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
Additionally our quarterly report on Form 10-Q will be filed by the close of business today and it will be available on our website at that time.
Please note that during todays presentation we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
By their nature all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons we described in our SEC filings including the Risk Factors section and cautionary statement disclosures in those filings.
During this call well also use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our companys performance including free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always todays call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
And now Ill turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us to hear more about the terrific third quarter results we posted this morning.
Overall we met or exceeded our expectations on every key measure-performance.
Our adjusted earnings per share increased from 9% to $1.15 per share a penny above the high end of our guidance range.
Both the PBM and retail segments exceeded our revenue expectations along with the retail business delivering expanded gross margin.
Operating profit in the retail business grew 8.8% at the high end of our expectations while operating profit in the PBM grew 8.5% exceeding our expectations.
In the PBM our performance was primarily attributable to stronger than expected claims volume and favorable purchasing economics.
Additionally we generated $1.4 billion free cash in the quarter and given the favorable tax effect of the debt extinguishment we are increasing our guidance range for free cash flow for the full year by approximately $200 million to $5.7 billion to $6 billion.
Now given our strong performance we are also narrowing this years adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $4.47 to $4.50 and thats from a range of $4.43 to $4.51 and again excludes the cost this quarter associated with the early extinguishment of debt.
And Dave will provide the details behind our financial results and guidance during his review.
So with that let me turn to the business update and Ill start with the 2015 CVM selling season which Im pleased to report has continued its growth trajectory.
Gross wins for 15 currently stand at 6.4 billion and thats up 1 billion from our last update with net new business standing at 3.1 billion up 500 million from our previous report.
And let me point out that this excludes any impact from our SilverScript PDP.
Now pricing this selling season remain competitive yet rational and our business wins reflect growth in the employer health plan and government sectors and our success again reflects our track record of generating savings for appliance through our suite of unique capabilities.
Now when you look at the 3.3 billion in business we lost its important to keep in mind that about 50% was lost through acquisition and another 25% was attributable to clients moving some of their members primarily retirees into the open market and through our strategic relationships with health plans along with our competitive SilverScript product offering we believe we are well positioned to capture beneficiaries enrolling in open market plans.
So were very pleased with the selling season and our team is already ramping up for what we expect to be another successful welcome season for early 2015.
Now as per 2015 renewals weve completed more than 80% of the 26 billion in business up for renewal with the retention rate of just over 96%.
Our clients continue to be very focused this season on achieving better control of specialty spend and we continue to differentiate our specialty offerings to provide a high level of clinical support to patients while managing trend for our clients and driving continued share gains in the business.
Our specialty revenues were up about 53% year-over-year driven by new business the high cost Hep C drug Sovaldi along with the addition of the Coram infusion business.
Now through Q3 numerous clients have signed up for our site-of-service management product thats enabled by the acquisition of Coram earlier this year.
And we also continue to see client interest in adoption of our medical pharmacy management offering enabled by the acquisition of NovoLogix.
So we remain optimistic that we can continue to gain specialty pharmacy share and youll hear a lot more about our strategy to capitalize on existing opportunities at Analyst Day.
Now before turning to retail let me touch briefly on our Med-D product SilverScript.
As expected we currently have about 3 million lives in our individual PDP and we expect to end the year with about the same amount with monthly add-ins from new chooser enrollments and dual auto assignments expected to offset normal monthly attrition and well update these numbers early next year as we get the result of open enrollment and along with the low income subsidy of signees.
But we continue to see significant opportunity to grow the individual PDP business over the long-term and are pleased with our product positioning in the market for 2015.
Now moving on to the retail business which again produce solid results and lets talk first about pharmacy.
Continuing the strong trend that we saw in the second quarter we once again gain pharmacy share in Q3.
Year-over-year our pharmacy market share increased about 40 basis points on a 30 day equivalent basis.
Pharmacy same store sales increased 4.8% versus the same quarter last year while pharmacy same store scripts increased 5.1% again on a 30 day equivalent basis.
Now these strong pharmacy same store sales include the negative impact of approximately 190 basis points due to recent generic introduction and another 190 basis points from the implementation of Specialty Connect which transfers specialty scripts from our retail segment to our PBM segment.
As expected weve seen no discernible impact on our pharmacy business from the decision to exit the tobacco category and Ill come back to that in a minute.
Regarding health reform not much is new since our last update and we continue to see a modest positive benefit to our script transform reform and thats largely from the expansion of Medicaid.
Our overall pharmacy margins increased again this quarter and were in line with our expectations and on our last call I talked about the impacts of generic inflation and pharmacy reimbursement pressure and given all the market commentary I want to reiterate those comments again today which are reflected in our third quarter results.
Recall that when we gave our 14 guidance last December we told you that we expected continued pressure on pharmacy reimbursement.
And the market is generally consistent with what we anticipated.
As to generic inflation while cost of goods inflation does exist on selected generic items the deflationary nature of the generic market remains intact and within our expectations.
Now there has also been a lot of discussion in the market about Medicare Part D plan designs that impact retail pharmacy network so let me touch on that as well.
First let me remind you that this is an annual process.
And in 2014 CVS is preferred provider in five of the top 10 Med D plans and that's based on lives.
For 2015 CVS has contracted with 20 regional and national Part D plans where CVS is positioned as a preferred provider.
Now we have taken a disciplined approach to participation in these networks ensuring that market impression and share analysis provides the right economics.
Now turning to the front store we saw a continued decrease in traffic that was partially offset by an increase in the average customer ticket.
Our front store comps were down 4.5% and adjusting for the tobacco compact costs would have been approximately 480 basis points higher.
We are tracking in line with where we expected to be with respect of the front store impact of our decision to exit tobacco.
And if you normalize this quarter for the tobacco exit in the second quarter for the Easter shift our pro forma front store comp performance reflects a modest sequential improvement from Q2.
Additionally we produced a solid improvement in front store margins in the quarter.
It is important to note that less than one-third of our front store margin improvement was driven by the absence of lower margin tobacco sales with the rest of the improvement reflecting our strategy of driving store brand sales in making responsible investments in promotion.
And for the past two years now we have been talking about utilizing extra care in differentiated ways to balance sales and margin growth.
We continue on that trajectory and you will hear more about our plans next month.
As for store brand sales we saw notable gains in Q3.
Store brands represented 20.1% of front store sales and that's up about 210 basis points from Q3 last year with gains across health beauty general merchandise and edibles.
Now roughly half of the improvement in store brand penetration relates to the exit from tobacco as there is zero store brand penetration in the category.
And we see significant opportunities to continue to expand our share of store brand products by building on our core equities and health and beauty while also seeking opportunistic growth in other categories.
Now turning to store growth on September 4 we completed the acquisition of Navarro the largest Hispanic-owned drugstore chain in the U.S.
In addition to acquiring the 33 Navarro stores we also opened up 45 new CVS pharmacies relocated 13 closed 4 resulting in 74 net-new stores in the quarter and we are on track to achieve square footage growth of 2% to 3% for the year.
As for CVS/MinuteClinic we opened 76 net new clinics in the quarter adding two new states New Mexico and Nebraska in several new markets.
We ended the quarter with 936 clinics in 30 states plus the District of Columbia and we expect to open more than 30 additional clinics in Q4.
Now CVS/MinuteClinic has steadfastly continued on its strong growth trajectory.
In the quarter revenues and customer visits increased more than 25% and 30% respectively versus the same quarter last year and we also added eight new health system affiliations throughout the quarters bringing the total number of affiliations for CVS Health to 44 across the country.
So CVS/MinuteClinic continues to build a platform that supports primary care by providing integrated high-quality care that is convenient accessible and affordable.
Now before turning it over to Dave I also want to update you on the progress that has been made by the very talented team we've assembled at Red Oak Sourcing our venture with Cardinal that formed the largest generic sourcing entity in the U.S.
With its combined volume and capabilities this new relationship will help spur innovative purchasing strategies with generic manufacturers along with enhancing supply chain efficiencies.
To date Red Oak has met with above 40 suppliers covering more than 90% of the cumulative generic spend.
Manufacturers continued to be transitioned from the legacy purchasing programs of both CVS and Cardinal to the new Red Oak purchasing platform.
And we are extremely pleased with our progress to date and we look forward to Red Oak's future contributions.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
During the third quarter we paid $324 million in dividends to our shareholders.
We have already surpassed the 25% dividend payout level and we are making continued good progress towards achieving our 35% payout target by 2018.
Additionally we will purchase more than 10 million shares for approximately $800 million at an average price of $78.51 per share.
Year-to-date we've repurchased more than 37 million shares for $2.8 billion and we still expect to complete at least $4 billion of share repurchases for the full year of '14.
So between dividends and share repurchases As Larry said we generated more than $1.4 billion of free cash in the third quarter bringing our total for the first nine months of the year to approximately $3.6 billion.
The key driver continues to be our healthy growth in earnings coupled with continued improvements in our retail cash cycle fueled mainly by performance and payables.
All in we now expect to generate free cash flow between $5.7 billion and $6 billion in 2014 up from our prior guidance of $5.5 billion to $5.8 billion driven in large part by the tax benefit associated with loss on the early extinguishment of debt.
I want to note that there is a chance that our cash flow delivery for the year may come in even stronger than our new guidance that I said today as we may receive some late year repayments a few days early.
However anything we generate for 2014 above our new guidance is likely to be simply a pull forward from 2015.
We will keep you posted of our progress and update you with any new information on Analyst Day.
Now turning to the income statement adjusted earnings per share from continued operations came in at $1.15 per share up 9% year-over-year and a penny above the high end of our guidance range.
As we anticipated in our guidance this includes a $0.03 negative impact to earnings per share from our decision to exit the tobacco category.
As Larry said our earnings reflects strong growth across both of our operating segments.
GAAP diluted EPS was $0.81 per share.
Now as you know in September we retired some long term debt replacing that with debt at lower interest rates.
We bought back $2 billion in an average rate of 6% and replace it with five and 10 year notes totaling $1.5 billion at an average rate of 2.74%.
By replacing this portion of our debt at lower rates were likely to see a $0.01 benefit this year from a reduction of interest expense and should see an incremental improvement in our annual interest expense for about $0.03 next year using todays share count.
There was a cost of $521 million in the third quarter associated with the retirement of these outstanding notes or approximately $0.27 per share and as Nancy said this debt extinguishment and the associated cost were not included in our prior guidance.
So with that let me quickly walk you through our underlying results.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the third quarter increased 9.7% or approximately $3.1 billion to $35 billion.
PBM net revenues increased 15.7% to $22.5 billion.
The strong performance was driven by net new business specialty pharmacy growth branded drug inflation and product mix.
Offsetting this to some degree were lower mail choice claims reflecting the continued decline in traditional mail order volumes and an increase in generic dispensing.
The PBMs generic dispensing rate increased to approximately 180 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 82.5%.
Compared with our guidance PBM revenues were slightly favorable to the high end due to stronger network volume and the delay the couple of generic launches that were expected to occur during the third quarter.
As we noted last quarter with the implementation of Specialty Connect we have transferred revenues out of the retail pharmacy segment and into the PBM segment as the PBM took over the dispensing of nearly all specialty prescriptions filled by CVS Health.
Given the high cost of specialty drugs this transition had a larger impact on sales dollars than script volumes as expected.
The impact on sales dollars in the third quarter was approximately $210 million and we expect a similar impact in the fourth quarter.
As expected the shift enhanced year-over-year top line growth in the PBM by approximately 115 basis points while dampening revenue growth at retail.
As Larry said it had a 190 basis point negative impact on retail pharmacy comps but keep in mind that it had an insignificant impact on retail script volumes.
Overall revenues in the retail business increased 3.1% in the quarter to $16.7 billion.
Sales in the retail segment were better than expected driven primarily by product mix volumes and the delay of the generic launches that I just mentioned.
Compared to the third quarter of last year retail GDR partially offset these positive factors increasing by approximately 180 basis points to 83.3%.
Retail revenue growth was also dampened by the exit from the tobacco category that was fully complete at the beginning of September.
As anticipated front store cost would have been approximately 480 basis points higher if tobacco and the estimated basket sales were excluded from both this year and last year.
In fact looking at the retail segment total revenues and adjusting for both the impact from tobacco as well as the impact from Specialty Connect pro forma growth would have been 6.5% a pretty solid performance.
a decline of approximately 40 basis points compared to Q3 of '13.
This margin decline was the result of a mix shift as the lower margin PBM segment grew faster than the retail segment.
Furthermore this trend was accelerated as we experienced a modest decline in the PBMs gross margin.
And within the PBM segment gross margin declined approximately 40 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 6.2% while gross profit dollars increased approximately 8.4% year-over-year.
The decline in margin year-over-year was primarily driven by typical client price compression and mix which is only partially offset by the increase in GDR and better purchasing economics.
Now gross margin in the retail segment was 31.3% up 125 basis points over LY.
Gross profit dollars increased 7.4% year-over-year the margin improvement was largely driven by an increase in pharmacy margins which benefited from the increase in GDR and better purchasing economics partially offset by continued reimbursement pressures.
At the same time we saw front store margins expand in the quarter driven mainly by change in product mix including higher store rent sales and our strategy of making responsible investments and promotions.
As Larry stated less than one third of our front store margin improvement was driven by the absence of tobacco.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by approximately 30 basis points from Q3 of 13 to 12.1% while total SG&amp;A dollars grew by 7%.
The PBM segment expenses grew by 7.9% and its SG&amp;A rate was 1.4% an improvement of approximately 10 basis points from LY.
Now in the retail segment SG&amp;A as a percent of sales increased by approximately 75 basis points to 22.1% while expenses grew by 6.8%.
This growth in expense primarily reflects higher legal and operating cost.
And within the corporate segment expenses were up $17 million to $196 million the increase was primarily related to our strategic initiatives as well as IT investments.
So adding it all up operating margin for the total enterprise declined approximately 10 basis points to 6.4%.
Operating margin in the PBM declined approximately 30 basis points to 4.8% while operating margin at retail improved about 40 basis points to 9.1%.
For the quarter PBM operating profit was strong growing 8.5% which was higher than we expected.
Retail operating profit increased a very healthy 8.8% at the high end of our expectations.
So going below the line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter increased approximately $32 million from LY to $153 million.
The debt we issued in the fourth quarter of last year was the primary driver of the increase.
Although we did see some benefit from the debt extinguishment at the end of this quarter.
Our weighted average share count was 1.16 billion shares and finally our effective tax rate was 39.7%.
So with that let me shift and turn to our 2014 guidance.
Im going to concentrate on the highlights here but you can find the details of our guidance in the slides that we posted on our website earlier this morning.
For the year we expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share of $4.47 to $4.50 per share reflecting strong year-over-year growth of approximately 12.75% and 13.5%.
And to be clear as Nancy noted at the start of the call our guidance and the year-over-year growth comparisons remove the impact of a loss of the early debt extinguishment in the third quarter of this year as well as the impact of the gain from the legal settlement we recorded in the third quarter of last year.
This makes the numbers more comparable and better demonstrates our underlying performance.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operation is expected to be in the range of $3.93 to $3.96 per share.
In effect weve narrowed our adjusted earnings per share guidance range taking the bottom end up $0.04 and the top end down by about a penny thereby increasing the midpoint about penny and a half.
Our revised guidance reflects our solid performance through the first nine months for this year as well as our confidence in our outlook.
As expected this guidance also assumes share repurchases totaling at least $4 billion for the year and $0.01 benefit from our debt transaction.
In the fourth quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be the range of $1.18 to $1.21 up 6% to 8.75% from Q4 13.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $1.12 to $1.15 per share.
This fourth quarter guidance includes a negative impact from tobacco exit for approximately $0.03 to $0.04 per share consistent with our initial expectations and bringing the impact for the year to approximately $0.07 to $0.08 per share.
As you all know sequentially Q4 profit growth is expected to be somewhat lower than what we've experienced year-to-date.
So before I walk you through the details I would like to point out a few factors influencing the quarterly profit cadence across our business.
First the timing of the impact of break-open generics presents the tough comparison versus Q4 of LY.
Second Q4 is the first quarter that we will see the full financial effect from our decision to exit the tobacco category.
And finally due to the success of 15 selling season we are investing incrementally in our welcome season to ensure a successful migration of new customers.
Now I will go through the details of our fourth quarter guidance.
Within the retail segment we expect revenues to be up 0.25% to 1.75% versus the fourth quarter of LY.
Adjusted script comps are expected to increase in the range of 3.5% to 4.5% while we expect total same store sales in the range of down 1% to up 0.5%.
We expect front store same store sales to reflect a negative impact relative to the tobacco exit of approximately 900 basis points in the fourth quarter.
We expect to see another significant improvement year-over-year in retail gross margins in the fourth quarter.
This is expected to be driven by a number of factors such as better purchasing economics which includes the quarterly payment from Cardinal as well as the exit from tobacco.
As we noted the tobacco exit drove only a small portion of the margin expansion we saw in the third quarter.
The impact is expected to ramp in the Q4 once we see a full quarter's impact.
We expect the retail segment's operating profit to increase 4.5% to 6.25% in the fourth quarter.
And now for the PBM segment we expect revenues to increase 16.75% to 18.25% for the fourth quarter and adjusted claims to be between 270 million and 275 million claims and we expect to see a notable decline in PBM gross margins during the fourth quarter again due to price compression and drug mix.
In addition the expected margin decline reflects the additional investment in our people processes and technologies; we are making to ensure another successful welcome season given the share number of new clients we are taking on for 2015.
As a result of our success we made solid investments during the third quarter and expect to continue to invest through the first quarter of next year.
Combined with the strong revenue expectations we expect the PBM segment operating profit to be flat to up 2% over last year in the fourth quarter.
As a result for the total enterprise in the quarter we expect revenues to meet up approximately 9% to 10.5% from the fourth quarter of '13.
This is after intercompany eliminations which are projected to equal about 10.8% of combined segment revenues.
This elimination ratio has been trending higher due to the tobacco exit which obviously does not affect pharmacy revenues.
With the total company gross profit margins are expected to be down significantly from last year's fourth quarter driven largely by mix.
Operating expenses as a percent of revenues are expected to notably improve in the fourth quarter.
PBM operating expenses as a percent of revenue should show modest improvement driven in part by the growth of high cost specialty drugs year-over-year.
Retail expense leverage should moderately decline given the loss of tobacco related sales with only a small amount of associated reductions in expenses and we expected operating expenses in the corporate segment to be between $200 million and $205 million.
We expect operating margin for the total company in the quarter to be down 30 basis points to 40 basis points from last year's fourth quarter.
We expect net interest expense of between a $125 million and a $135 million and a tax rate of approximately 40% in the fourth quarter.
We anticipate that we will have approximately 1.15 billion weighted average shares for the quarter which would imply approximately 1.17 billion for the year.
And as I said we now expect to generate free cash flow in the range of between $5.7 billion to $6 billion for the year.
So in summary this was a very solid high quality quarter with strong financial performance across the enterprise.
And importantly our outlook remains strong.
We continue to remain focused on using our strong free cash flow to ride value for all our stakeholders both now as well as into the future.
And so with that I will turn it back over to Larry Merlo  Okay thank you Dave.
And I just want to say again that I am very pleased with our performance year-to-date and I do want to take a moment to thank our colleagues across the CVS Health Enterprise for everything that they are doing day in and day out to serve our many customers and stakeholders while driving results.
And as a pharmacy innovation company we are focused on our growing role in shaping the future of healthcare and with our unmatched enterprise assets we are very well positioned for today and at the same time were still hard at work on the next innovation that will prepare us for tomorrow and drive value well into the future as we look forward to sharing those with you next month at our Analyst Day.
So with that lets open it up for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Please go ahead.
So guys I wanted to drill down a little bit on the Retail gross margin performance.
Is there any more color front end versus pharmacy on a relative basis one versus the other because either pharmacy was up a decent amount or X tobacco front end was up a very considerable amount.
And so I'm thinking about the two of those.
And then what impact would Specialty Connect transfer have on your pharmacy margins?  Good morning John its Larry and Ill take the first part and then I think Dave will go ahead and jumped in.
John as we described in our prepared remarks I think we talked about some of the variables in play that impacted both front store and pharmacy margins.
We saw growth in both of those areas but I think as you know we have not historically broken those out other than qualitatively or directionally talking about the factors that are impacting.
And obviously in the front store there is going to be some adjustment because of eliminating the lower margin tobacco products and we talked about the fact that that represented about a third of the improvement that we saw.
And as weve been talking out for quite some time I think our retail team has done a very effective job in terms of walking that fine lines weve described it as the balance between art and fines in terms of how do you drive traffic and sales in a responsible way so that it has a flow through to the P&amp;L and part of that is also reflected in the growth in store brands as well.
And I think in the pharmacy segment again there has been a lot of cross turns in the market but similar to what we talked about in the front weve brought that same level of discipline as were thinking about participation and preferred restricted networks.
And at the same time some of the factors that are in play in terms of driving generic utilization and formulary management et cetera et cetera.
And Specialty Connect on pharmacy?  Just in general specialty drugs are typically branded drugs almost exclusively branded drugs -- lower gross margin rate so it would have a slightly positive effect on retail pharmacy as you script those drugs out and move them to PBM but very modest.
And then lastly on -- with regard to what you're doing promotionally are you -- what are you learning about promotional elasticity? Because it seems like you're promoting a little less you're not seeing a traffic drop off so is promotional elasticity in a lot of cases not as great as we thought it was?  I think we spent a lot of time over the last year so really using our extra care data to look at promotional effectiveness so what were doing there is understanding; you promote which product who youre inviting into your stores eventually.
So weve been using that just to balance ourselves and make sure were making the right promotional investments.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Larry I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about moving some of the specialty business outside of the medical benefits and into the pharmacy benefit.
And I don't know if you are able to quantify either the types -- modified the success you're having their or can you talk about which types of clients do you think are most likely to want to rethink how they manage debt Specialty Benefits that's executed under the medical side and maybe think about it on the pharmacy side.
Good morning George its Larry Ill start and ask Jon to jump in here.
Again this is something we spend a fair amount of time talking about at Analyst Day last December and the capabilities that the NovoLogix technology that really serves as the driver to be able to do things on the medical side of pharmacy that we think have been largely unmanaged I think were in a point now where we can sit down with a respective client and look at their claims that if you will and actually show them the opportunities that we can bring the savings that are derived as a result of that.
Yes and George this is Jon.
So I would think about this in two ways.
One is the ability to move some of the specialty drugs out of the medical benefit and into the pharmacy benefit rheumatoid arthritis is a good example so that we can use our existing capabilities tools utilization programs to effectively manage those for our clients and we do have clients that have an interest in doing that and something we continue to recommend.
For the balance of the specialty drugs are managed under the medical benefit we have what Larry talked about the NovoLogix capability to essentially do everything were doing on the pharmacy side today prior authorizations reprising utilization programs and manage those programs under the medical benefit.
Were primarily seeing interest from our health plans with the NovoLogix tool and we have got a lot of success there in growing that business.
Okay.
That's interesting color and it's helpful to hear that you're seeing success on the plans I.
I've made have thought it would have been more with the employee sponsors may be a real quick follow-up for Dave and Larry I am sorry for dispensing with the pleasantries to start the Q&amp;A but Dave how about -- is there any number you can kind of give us to kind of characterize where we are coming up the curve on Red Oak and try to quantify success there? Thanks and I'll hop back in.
Well George as you think about Red Oak as we mentioned in our prepared remarks I think the team has gotten off to a terrific start and I do want to emphasize that we essentially airlifted if you will very talented individuals from CVS and from Cardinal that were performing those functions within each company respectively.
So we dont have a brand new team that is doing this work so I can tell you its a very talented team if you sat with these individuals you would know which individuals came over from CVS and which ones came over from Cardinal so I think the management team there has done a terrific job in terms of blending the culture and so on.
I think as we talked about value being created George there is really three ways that value gets created.
One is from the fixed payments that Dave alluded to in his prepared remarks and the fact that well see the first of those payments flowing through the P&amp;L in the fourth quarter of this year.
The second is based on a set of predetermined milestones that if theyre achieved there is the opportunity for additional payments to CVS and again I want to emphasize that those are milestones derivatives if those milestones are not achieved there arent additional payments but if theyre there will be and then the third is this is where scale and expertise and knowledge comes into play that we believe that there will be opportunities to further lower our acquisition cost from what exist today.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research please go ahead.
I had a housekeeping item and then I wanted a strategic question.
And Dave was the debt retirement part of the guidance originally or no? I think you said it and I just missed it and I apologize.
No Scott it was not part of our guidance originally.
Okay perfect.
And this isn't much more of a strategic question maybe we'll hear more about it when we get to Analyst Day but it seems to me taking a step back that the Retail business is a little bit at a crossroads.
And I'm specifically talking on the front end.
You've obviously taken tobacco category out but photos diminished a lot the cards are not what they once used to be.
You guys are adding a lot of clinics in which means not only for pharmacy but people are coming in for health reasons.
And then we got the change in the healthcare business where more consumers are going to be making their choices.
And then I overlay that with lots of assets tied up in Retail and wondering where you think the business is going on the Retail side and how do you manage all this dynamic?  Got it I will ask Helena to talk a little more about that.
Okay good.
Yes I mean I think were thinking very holistically from the customers perspective just in terms of the experience and how we want to use our asset and certainly we mentioned before we are focusing on driving profitable growth we think when the customers think that CVS she is thinking first and foremost about pharmacy and health and beauty is a really important part of that CVS and continue to invest in health and beauty and elevate our presence there we are also spending a lot more time talking about digital and thinking about the connection between stores and digital and really enhancing the experience of our customers around digital.
So Im excited about the work with that going on there.
Its again particularly focused in the pharmacy but the front stores are an important part of that as well.
Hey Scott this is Jon.
From a client perspective they use a retail locations just really synergistic to their goals of being able to reach the consumer influence that consumer change that consumers behavior and lower overall healthcare cost.
So I think you have to think about really as an integrated model not just as a standalone retail pharmacy bolted on to a pharmacy to integrate all these channels.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen with Leerink Partners please go ahead.
Can you please talk about these relationships that you've developed with these larger health systems? What value is CVS bringing to these health systems that's unique to the Retail channel? And then can you touch on the goal of the in-store clinics and how you see that expanding overtime potentially with more specialty services and potentially lab and is that helping you win on the PBM side? Thanks.
Yes Dave its a great question.
And I think as I mentioned we now have 44 of those affiliations and I think we've got a number of pilots underway with several of those health systems where we are actually transmitting the patient CMR back and forth.
I think that it is a synergistic opportunity where both parties see the opportunity as a referral source.
There are patients that we are seeing that have to be referred to for more comprehensive work up and further diagnosis.
And at the same time recognizing our focus on acute care there are services that we can provide high quality at a much lower positive care and as we've talked many times getting the visit out of the emergency.
So I think it starts there I think with we are in the early innings of the capabilities that we have.
I think as the second part of your question we are doing point of care testing in our clinics today and we are evaluating the various technologies that exist in terms of playing a deeper and vigor role and we are excited about a pilot that we now have underway in one of our Texas markets where we are actually performing infusion services in one of our clinics.
So I think you will hear us talk a little more about that at Analyst Day but I think there are a number of opportunities that we have there.
Thanks very much.
I just had a couple of follow questions on the PBM selling season.
Larry or Jon can you talk about plan design changes for 2015.
And then secondly just there are several amount of question in the marketplace of is CVS winning because of its combined offering Jon that you talked about today as being fully integrated or have you been winning because of merger related activity and some other things in the marketplace? So if you can give us some of the comment around that as well as your thoughts on plan design changes for 2015?  Let me take the second question and I will put the first question back to Jon but Lisa I think is again as you've heard us talk in the past you've got to be right on and competitive on pricing you've got to deliver service so I think those are ticket for the games.
But beyond that I think we have an off a lot of differentiators and it's a clich to say that when you see one client you see one client but they all have different priorities and I think that we have a growing list of services and products that meet the needs of very diverse clients whether it's maintenance choice Specialty Connect Pharmacy advisor we just talked about MinuteClinic our leadership and growing position that exists in specialty and as well as the consultant services and that exist within our Medicare Part D assets whether it's providing that service for health plan or our standalone SilverScript products.
So we can go on and on with that okay but I think that we are all very confident and bullish on the fact that our integrated assets are making a meaningful difference in the marketplace in terms of reducing the cost of care and at the same time improving the quality of that care.
So I will flip it over to Jon if he wants to add anything to that and then talk more about plan designs.
Yes.
So Lisa I am out in front of a lot of new perspective clients have been over the last year obviously very pleased with the results of the selling season.
I would say service issues that they may be experiencing kind of get them to look at what else is available in the marketplace but it's clear once we sit down and talk about everything that Larry covered they see our value proposition and I think it's led to a lot of our success.
I think as far as plan design changes we're obviously see more movement consumer driven health plans.
We're the member there's more financial responsibility particularly upfront.
So we are seeing providers a high interest of providers in fact most of 50% providing coverage of generics so that there isnt a negative impact on adherence which we are very pleased to see.
I think other things around plan design are I think you are going to see more interest in narrow networks as we are kind of as we are returning to higher trend I think plans are going to be looking to at the lower cost and ways like that.
And I think when you think of narrow networks you really got to just aggregate the different segments.
If you look at Medicare Part D clearly we are seeing a lot of preferred networks there managed Medicaid we see them narrow networks employers have been great adopters of maintenance choice but we are also seeing movements into narrow preferred networks.
And commercial health plans really have been I would say the slowest to adopt these plan designs but I think with the growth of exchanges I think youre going to see movement there.
So when you look at the new business wins that we brought on this year we have about a third of our new wins adopting different plan designs and moving into narrow networks as an example.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
To follow-up on the PBM and the net wins you mentioned over $1 billion better relative to this update this time last year.
Can you talk a little bit more about where you're winning and any sense you can give us on mix around profitability of where you're winning? I know you mentioned some shifts in where people are looking to go with narrow networks just curious on how that all impacts the profitability of the pretty successful season you've had this year.
Bob again I think we mentioned in our prepared remarks that were very pleased in that the wins that come across all sectors of the business weve seen it on the important side on the health plan side as well as the government sponsor side.
So were pleased with that.
The dynamic in terms of the profitability I dont think that dynamic we have seen materially changed that typically over the life of the contract you see profitability of those contracts improve and typically it is at its low point in that first year of the new contract.
Bob this is Jon.
As trend continues to grow and there has been a lot of discussion about that the slowing down of the generic pipeline the growth in specialty I think the good news is that we are seeing this in the new business wins these clients are going to be adopting our programs which help them lower our cost but are also good for us and improve our profitability.
So we think its a win-win and there is good alignment there.
That's helpful.
And if I could sneak one in on the preferred networks a big focus around part D this year.
As somebody with a fairly unique vantage point on both as a part D provider plan provider and then also has obviously a retail network can you talk about what you're seeing as far as the rise in the appetite for preferred networks? And any notable change in the economics in participating in these preferred networks?  Bob I think that obviously we have seen an accelerated growth in Med-D.
I think from our retail provider side as I mentioned earlier there is going to be a step down in margin associated with participating in those networks as one of the preferred providers and once again I think our retail team has done a very effective job in terms of evaluating the step down in margin against the anticipated share shift and as a result of that there are plans that make sense to participate in a preferred way.
There are other plans where it doesnt make sense.
Keeping in mind that all Med-D plans are not equal when you look at the co-pay delta that exist for the beneficiary the consumer in terms of preferred not preferred as well as the make-up of that Med-D plan in terms of if it has a high percentage of low income subsidies they are not subject to the co-pay differentials.
Ill refer to them as the chooser beneficiaries.
So I used those as just two examples as well as geographic strength and presence that go into that evaluation.
Thank you.
Eric Percher and Meredith Adler here for Barclays.
So question on Specialty Connect now that you have couple of months under your belt as you focused on providing access to the open market the market where you dont have captive pair lines have you focused on actually investing in market to the physician or the patient or is this more in manner just being able to capture scripts that walk in to the doors of the store and I imagine you would have an advantage in that marketing effort given your name brands?  Great question were very happy with how Specialty Connect is performing.
Were seeing a very high level of patient satisfaction and its been deployed across our retail stores in specialty pharmacies.
Let me say its start because there is client component to this also when our clients value this capability and they see this is another differentiated service that we offer and somewhere the maintenance choice has been very successful where we see about 50% of the people want to keep their specialty script up with the local CVS and other half want it sent home.
And so realizing most of our important clients are exclusive with us.
This is a big benefit that they can give their members.
Now when you go to the open market and these are physicians and patients that get to choose our specialty pharmacy.
They value service and convenience of Specialty Connect offers.
And we have and have had for years well north of 100 people out working with physicians and talking about the services that we provide and getting their patients started on specialty medications and so this is just we think this just gives us an added advantage in the marketplace because its going to be more convenient for their patients and it provides a high level of service for their physicians.
So were very bullish on this in both the open market and also the market for our clients we think it gives us an advantage.
Whats interesting is that our pharmacy teams love it because its leveraging our integrated assets that no one in the marketplace can and allows them to serve their patients in their local pharmacy and pharma is also very happy with it the inherent results they see in this program because it's equal to or better than what they see traditional specialty pharmacy and better than adherence that they see and normally see in Retail Pharmacy so overall very happy.
It sounds like the value of your commercial basis is quite strong and youre feeling on the open market is not that this is so much something new but it captures and allows you to capture incremental lives I guess where Im going is that some of the big players without captive lives have seen a lot of growth in the open market it doesnt sound like you think that youve left a lot there on the table?  No weve seen a lot of growth in the open market as well.
So were growing both segments so very happy this gives us we think an advantage over the traditional open specialty pharmacy players.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies &amp; Company please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
On the specialty story you said 53% growth here in the specialty business whats the organic growth excluding the Coram acquisition and maybe give us a little more color on the drivers behind that growth because thats a very large number relative to the 20% growth is kind of expected in the broader marketplace?  Hey Mark its Dave.
Exclude Coram I think our growth in specialty is about 44% for the quarter so while Coram did contribute to the growth it was not an overwhelming driver of that performance.
Ill flip it to Jon.
And So is it mostly Sovaldi? No that is one product but thats certainly that was not the lion share of the growth.
But yes weve added new business were seeing existing clients primarily health plans narrow their networks they normally have several preferred pharmacy so were seeing more interest and pushing more share into our channels and were rolling the open business as well as I talked about so were very happy with the performance of specialty.
And what's your sense on the awareness out there in the marketplace? Because we did a survey earlier this year and some of the employers still weren't completely tuned into the coming wave of specialty spending.
Clients that I speak to are very aware of it and theyre seeing it in their trend growth so it was something we talked about at our client forum this year.
Specialty is their number one priority theyre looking for ways to control those cost as an example very high interest and formula strategies but four years ago there wasnt a real strong interest in very interested in some of our capabilities around side of care that we can do with NovoLogix.
So yes I think theyre very aware of specialty.
And Mark I think that has been a step change over the last lets say 12 months and I think for the reasons that Jon mentioned they heard it was coming and now that theyre seeing the impact of drugs like Sovaldi theyre very anxious about ways in which we can bend that cost curve if you will.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS please go ahead.
So seeing the topic of exchanges had thankfully moved to the back burner but with your disclosure that's roughly $800 million or so of business that was lost to exchanges for 2015.
And I guess at first blush it seems like a big number but then the fact that it equates to just under 1% of your total annual PBM business it seems pretty manageable when you put it in that context.
So I know it's hard to predict this but I'm curious do you think that roughly 1% attrition is a reasonable run rate for exchange risk over the next few years? Or could that change higher or lower for any specific reason that you foresee right now? Thanks.
Well Steve I think its important to put this in context I mean I think the Red Oak around people migrate active employees migrating over to the exchanges but Red Oak around that has quite a down tremendously and other than perhaps small employee organizations were not hearing any of that in mid and large size companies.
I think as we alluded into in our prepared remarks I think that and its not in consistent with what weve talked about in the past.
I do think that if there is any trend emerging it is employers getting out of the retiree business and I think thats what were seeing back to our earlier comments and its kind of hard to put a number on that but I dont see anything migrating beyond that at this point in time.
And Steve this is Jon.
And just remember we have an opportunity to recapture those lives through our health plan relationships and also for retirees or Silver Script product that as you can see it is very competitive this year.
So we think we will do well and some people move into that exchange.
Yes.
Steve this is Dave maybe just one other comment.
We could maybe harken back a little bit to the some of the comments we made several quarters ago.
If you look at the exchange market and you look at the assets that we have in place across our enterprise we are very well positioned from the exchange perspective in a sense that one you obviously can plug in from a PBM perspective.
I think about plugging in from a specialty perspective from a retail perspective from a clinic perspective there is a host of assets that we have here that really we can plug and play and really meet the needs of the exchange population and really with our touch points with consumers across the marketplace really allow us to kind of utilize those assets in meaningful ways to drive value for both consumers also plan sponsors in the exchange markets.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen and Company.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
A question here.
Just got a couple of follow ups.
On the MinuteClinic side can you talk about any sort of metrics in terms of what sort of your same store visits are looking like for stores that have been opened longer than a year? And also maybe any sort of metrics around one of the referral benefits from your earlier health lines partner has been looking like.
Yeah Charles we have not broken out your second question in terms of referral visits.
I think in our prepared remarks we've talked about the fact that year-over-year visits were up 30%.
Now that is not a comp number we have not broken that out okay.
But I can tell you that that growth did not come just from new clinics.
We are continuing to see healthy growth in clinics that have been open for a couple of years now.
Okay that's helpful.
And secondly just a follow up on sort of the preferred networks in Medicare Part D it seems like the issue with the contracting here is where you set sort of this overall effective rate on the pricing.
It seems like from your comments that you guys have not had as much of an issue in Medicare Part D as you negotiated your way into these preferred networks or chose not to be in them.
My question is really around the overall effective rate.
I mean it seems like this is a negotiated rate whether it sort of puts and takes on when you go to health plans to negotiate this in particular is this do you give up something for a higher overall effective rate and what you've gained for negotiated more aggressive on? Thanks.
Hey Charles.
This is Dave; maybe I will take that just one comment.
I think weve been very disciplined and I think applied somewhat of a sophisticated lens to this activity.
As you can imagine as Larry stated earlier its not all Medicare Part D products and benefit designs are created equal.
And I think we look at the each one of those designs we analyze the utilization impact and the share movement impact based on the design and the co-pay differentials and we understand what makes sense for us and what makes sense for our plan sponsor.
And we also compare and look at the makeup of that membership base and understand whether it's a low income subsidy base or a chooser base and that creates different dynamics in the marketplace.
So we've factored all that in and essentially underwrite our performance there and make choices that we think are economically in the best interest of CVS Health but also the best interest of our health plans and best interest of the consumers that we serve and I think we have been very disciplined around our approach to that.
Okay.
Carlos we will go ahead and take two more questions please.
Very well.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
All right just a quick one.
Dave how much of the cash flow benefit for the year might be might you consider one time in nature i.e.
tobacco inventory reduction.
And then secondary what's driving the higher accounts receivable days.
Is there any opportunity to bring that down? Yes a couple of things.
One is I don't think there is anything that is necessarily one time in nature per se if any material nature absolutely normal cadence of recoveries for Medicare Part D which is kind of baked into kind of our run rate.
So I don't see anything abnormal from a cash flow delivery perspective.
And I think both from a receivables and payables perspective I think if we continue to work on a payable side and probably still some opportunities.
On the accounts receivable side is really we are probably constrained a little bit as it relates to Medicare Part D and a performance and requirements around CMS which is probably not a lot that we can do to influence that specifically other than just make sure that we are fully on top of it managing it effectively.
And that's on the retail side.
Its most on the PBM side frankly.
Fair enough.
Okay thank you.
The next question comes from the line of John Ransom with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Two questions what you are guys saying it is too early in terms of the specialty trend for 2015 and how much of that will affected by the lapping of Sovaldi and I have one follow-up.
I think its probably little too early to chat about specialty trend in specifics as it relates to 2015.
I would say that Jon and his team have been working with client to kind of outline that if you dont manage specialty trend over the long-term that you can see trend in kind of the mid-teens level over the next several years but I think that what we have been working with our clients to do is go back and outline a series of steps and activity that they can implement with us that can actually help them manage that trend down to very reasonable levels they chose to do so.
And weve been very explicit with our clients and working very diligently with them to make sure they understand those tradeoffs.
John the only thing Id add what Dave said is that when you look at the 2014 specialty trend I mean it is going to be double digits and so all these going to play a big role in that.
And there is we actually saw on the back half of this year that the utilization in the Hep C market primarily driven by Sovaldi plateau.
Weve seen Harvoni launched already and were actually seeing an uptake in utilization and most of that uptake is coming at the expense of Sovaldi.
But also there is a new MV product coming out in December that will compete with Harmony.
And so our plan is to leverage our formulary strategy and bring cost down and well determine which products one or more actually are on our 15 formulary so I think we are going to have a little different dynamic as we move into 15 because were now seeing competition in the Hepatitis C category.
Right.
And my other question was the pushback of Nexium a needle mover in terms of your original guidance for this year and what you're now thinking about for fourth quarter?  It is the push back and it is change to our expectations but I think that shift in that change is fully contemplated our guidance for this year I think the actual launch date of that is recycle into 15 is still up in the air quite frankly we are not certain.
So we keep posted on that well keep watchful eye on that.
We may know more by Analyst Day I think we may not.
But well see where we are.
Okay.
So with that once again let me thank everyone for your time today and for your ongoing interest in our company and we look forward to seeing hopefully all of you next month in New York.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask you to please disconnect your lines.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to CVS Health Fourth Quarter Earnings Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday February 10 2015.
I would now turn this conference over to Nancy Christal Senior VP of Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thanks Gillian.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Im here this morning with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will review our fourth quarter results as well as guidance for the first quarter and year.
Jon Roberts President of PBM and Helena Foulkes President of the Retail Business are also with us today and they'll participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow-up so we can provide more callers with the chance to ask questions.
Just before this call we posted a slide presentation on our Web site.
The slide summarizes the information you'll hear today as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
Additionally note that our Form 10-K will be filed later this afternoon and it will be available on our Web site at that time.
Please note that during todays presentation we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
By their nature all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons as described in our SEC filings including the Risk Factors section and cautionary statement disclosures in those filings.
During this call well also use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our Companys performance including free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always todays call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one-year.
And now Ill turn this over to our CEO Larry Merlo.
Thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
This call wraps up 2014 and it was a great year for our company by any measure.
We delivered approximately 10% growth in consolidated revenues 14% growth in PBM operating profit 8% growth in retail operating profit and 13.5% growth in adjusted earnings per share on a comparable basis.
On a quarterly basis we have consistently posted solid financial results and the fourth quarter was no exception.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 8.4% to a $1.21 per share at the high-end of our guidance range and both the PBM and Retail segments exceeded our revenue expectations.
Operating profit in the retail business grew 6.5% just above the high-end of our expectations while operating profit in the PBM increased about 1% right in line with expectation.
Additionally we generated $2.9 billion of free cash in the quarter and $6.5 billion for the full year exceeding our expectations.
Also today we are reconfirming the 2015 earnings guidance we provided back in December and Dave will provide the details behind our fourth quarter results and 2015 guidance during his review.
So let me turn to the business update.
And Ill start with the 2015 PBM selling season.
Gross client wins for 15 currently stand at $7 billion with net new business at $3.6 billion both up approximately $400 million from our update back in December.
And this excludes any impact from our SilverScript PDP which Ill address shortly.
Now like the past several years our success in the 15 selling season reflects our high levels of service and execution competitive pricing along with our unique integrated model and our model allows us to provide differentiated products and services that generate savings for our clients while providing better health outcomes and convenience for their members.
Now the $7 billion in new business encompassing about 150 new clients serving millions of new members 2015 was the largest and most complex welcome season in our history.
And as we stated previously we invested to ensure a successful welcome season and that took months of rigorous planning.
The investments we made were well worth it and I want to take a minute to express how pleased we are with the extraordinary and successful welcome season weve had.
The feedback we've received from clients and consultants has been extremely positive and I'm very proud of the collective efforts of our colleagues.
Now we expect our track record of success in winning and retaining business to continue in the 2016 selling season which is now underway.
Now many of you have asked what our clients are focused on and the number one priority centers on controlling their rapidly rising specialty costs.
And were bringing them an array of differentiated solutions.
Our Specialty Connect offering which was rolled out by May of 14 is gaining client interest and traction in the marketplace.
The program provides choice to receive a member specialty script at CVS retail or mail while preserving the central clinical expertise that leads to better health outcomes.
And physicians appreciate the ease of getting their patients started on therapy.
No other PBM can offer this today.
Clients are also interested in ways to manage specialty cost that fall under the medical benefit and our NovoLogix solution continues to resonate in the market.
Overall our specialty capabilities enable us to provide strong clinical support to patients while managing trend for our clients and this strategy is producing results.
In fact specialty revenues were up a very healthy 56% versus the same quarter last year.
That was driven by new business the high class Hep C drugs and the addition of the Coram infusion business.
Combined our innovative offerings enable us to optimize cost quality and access and should continue to drive share gains in this fast growing specialty sector.
Now as you know another way we manage trend for clients is through our highly proactive approach to formulary management.
We led the market with our formulary strategy for the 2012 plan year and since then weve updated our template formulary on an annual basis and increasing specialty drugs are part of that strategy.
Our formulary process enables our clients to provide excellent access to care while meeting their members needs in the most clinical and cost effective manner.
Now in January Gileads Hep C drugs Harvoni and Sovaldi became exclusive on the CVS/Caremark Standard Commercial Exchange Medicare Part D and Medicaid Formularies.
Harvoni is the preferred agent for genotype 1 Sovaldi is the preferred agent for the treatment of other genotypes.
And our goal was to create the lowest net cost solution for the entire population of patients with all Hep C genotypes.
We recognized the cost challenges and we remain committed to providing solutions for clients that choose to treat all their patients as well as those who feel it makes more sense to prioritize patients with the more advanced stages of lever fibrosis.
We believe that our strategy meets patient needs while delivering excellent value and clinical options for clients and their members.
At the same time our formulary strategy positions us well in the 2016 selling season.
Now before turning to retail let me touch briefly on our SilverScript product.
We ended 2014 with about 2.9 million individual PDP wise.
That was right on plan and very consistent with what we forecasted and communicated at our Analyst Day we now have about 3.4 million individual PDP members reflecting a successful annual enrolment period and we continue to be pleased with our progress in this growing area of the business.
Moving on to retail which produced solid results across the business even with the tobacco headwind.
Now weve been tobacco free since September and here is what weve learned over the past four months.
The negative impact to our front store sales has been slightly less than anticipated.
We know that the most heavily impacted categories are consistent with our expectations but the magnitude of that impact on those categories has been a bit less than expected.
Beyond the categories we expected to see impacted other front store categories have not been negatively affected.
And based on external data it appears that our former tobacco sales have migrated largely to convenience stores and gas stations.
There has been no dissuadable impact on our pharmacy business and since we launched our new CVS Health brand customer awareness and response to the new branding campaign has been very positive and weve seen a notable increase in customer perception of CVS as a leader.
So let's review the fourth quarter retail results.
Pharmacy same-store prescription unit volumes increased 5.3% on a 30 day equivalent basis and we continue to gain pharmacy share.
Our retail pharmacy market-share was 21.1% in Q4 and thats up about 55 basis points versus the same quarter a year ago.
Pharmacy same-store sales increased 5.5% versus the same quarter last year.
The incidents of flu did pick up a bit in the quarter adding about 40 basis points to pharmacy costs.
Pharmacy same-store sales also includes the negative impacts of about a 150 basis points due to recent generic introductions and another 190 basis points from the implementation of Specialty Connect.
And you'll recall Specialty Connect transfers specialty scripts from our Retail segment into our PBM segment.
Pharmacy margins increased again this quarter and were in line with our expectations.
Now as we discussed previously CVS has contracted with 20 regional and national Part D plans for 2015 where CVS is positioned as a preferred provider and weve taken a disciplined approach to our participation in these networks ensuring that margin compression and share analysis provide the right economics.
Turning to the front store we saw continued decrease in traffic.
That was partially offset by an increase in the average customer basket.
Our front store comps were down 7.2% and adjusting for the tobacco impact front store comps would have been up 0.7%.
The impact of the tobacco exit was about 800 basis points and thats about 100 basis points less than we anticipated.
So again four months into it it's still early but were very pleased with these results.
Front store margins benefitted in the quarter from the tobacco exit.
On a comparable basis to last year including adjusting for the tobacco elimination front store margins improved modestly.
And this underlying improvement in front store margin reflects our discipline in making responsible investments in promotion along with the continued growth of store brand sales.
In fact we made great progress in store brand penetration in the quarter with store brands increasing to 22% in front store sales and thats up about 310 basis points from Q4 last year and about 190 basis points of that improvement reflects the removal of tobacco from our mix.
The other 120 basis point reflects underlying progress in our store brand penetration.
And we saw gains across health beauty general merchandise and edibles and we see great opportunities to continue to garner store brand share.
Turning to our store growth for the quarter we opened 50 new stores relocated 30 closed seven resulting in 43 net new stores in the quarter and for the full year we opened a 151 new stores acquired 33 relocated 60 closed 22 resulting in 162 net new stores and we continue to enter some new markets including Little Rock Arkansas and Seattle Washington.
So overall our 2014 store growth equated to an increase in retail square footage of 2.4% and that was right in line with our plan.
As for minuteclinic we opened 35 net new clinics in the quarter 171 for the year ending the year with 971 clinics in 31 states plus the district of Colombia.
And continuing on its very strong growth trajectory minuteclinics revenues and customer visits increased 36% and 33% respectively versus the same quarter last year.
At year-end we have 49 affiliations with major health systems across the country.
We recently added two new affiliations further expanding our platform that supports primary care both conveniently and cost effectively.
Let me update you on the progress that has been made at Red Oak Sourcing our venture with Cardinal Health and we are extremely pleased with the rapid progress Red Oak has made to date.
The combined expertise of the Red Oak team along with the simplicity of the business structure has enabled them to hit the ground running.
They have been actively working with suppliers on strategies that create value for all parties and have now transition suppliers representing more than 95% of the combined generic spend.
And as expected we received the first fixed quarterly payment from Cardinal in the fourth quarter and we look forward to Red Oaks future contributions.
Now before I turn it over to Dave let me comment on the news surrounding Nexium.
As you know Teva recently received FDA approval for the generic and weve received some questions on how that might impact our results.
I just want to note that there are still many questions regarding the launch of generic Nexium including potential legal maneuvers the timing of launches as well as the number of other manufacturers who could potentially launch.
So we need clarity and answers for those questions before we can provide any more specifics.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry good morning everyone.
This morning I'll provide a detailed review of our 2014 fourth quarter financial results and briefly touch upon our 2015 guidance which remains unchanged from what we outlined back in December.
First I will start with the ramp-up of last years capital allocation program which would clearly demonstrate how we've been using our strong free cash flow to return value to our shareholders through both dividends as well as share repurchases.
I'm pleased to say that we have continued on our steady march of improving our dividend payout ratio.
Recall that back in 2010 that our payout ratio was approximately 14%.
We finished 2014 with the payout ratio of 27.7% almost double 2010s level and four percentage points higher than 2013.
We paid approximately $1.3 billion in dividends in 14 and $317 million in the fourth quarter alone.
Our strong earnings outlook for this year combined with the 27% increase to dividend that we announced at Analyst Day puts us well on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 35% by 2018.
Now along with these significant increases in our dividends we have also continued to do value enhancing share repurchases.
For all of 2014 we have repurchased approximately 51 million shares for $4 billion averaging $77.91 per share.
In the fourth quarter alone we repurchased 14.1 million shares for $1.2 billion.
So between dividends and share repurchases we have returned approximately $5.3 billion to our shareholders in 2014.
And looking forward we have $12.7 billion in authorization to repurchase shares and we continue to expect to repurchase $6 billion this year.
Our expectation is that we will return more than $7 billion to our shareholder in 2015 through a combination of both dividends and share repurchases which is up more than 30% over last year.
We generated $2.9 billion of free cash in the fourth quarter and all of 2014 free cash flow increased $2.1 billion year-over-year to approximately $6.5 billion.
The increase in cash generation was driven primarily by improvements in collections and payables management.
These were partially offset by growth in inventory and current assets as well as increased investments in capital associated with technology and other corporate efforts.
We have mentioned on our last earnings call that the 2014 free cash flow might exceed our guidance at the expense of 2015 guidance and in fact we did in the year $500 million above the high-end of our goal.
That was driven by the receipt of some late year payments a few days early.
Despite the higher than anticipated receivable collections in 14 the underlying strength of our cash flow allows us to maintain our free cash flow guidance for this year of $5.9 billion to $6.2 billion.
Aside from these timing items within receivables we continue to make strides in improving our cash cycle to better management of payables and we have remained committed to further improvements in working capital as we look forward.
For the year our net capital expenditures were $1.6 billion.
This included $2.1 billion of gross CapEx offset by $515 million in sale leaseback proceeds.
And as for the income statement adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations came in at a $1.21 per share at the high-end of our guidance.
GAAP to diluted EPS was a $1.14 per share.
We saw strong results across our operating segments with retail posting results above the high-end of our expectations.
So with that let me quickly walk down the P&amp;L.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the fourth quarter increased 12.9% to $37.1 billion.
In the PBM segment net revenues increased 21.7% to $23.9 billion.
This year-over-year growth was attributable to specialty pharmacy including the impact of Coram and Specialty Connect as well as increased volumes in pharmacy network claims.
Partially offsetting this growth was an increase in our generic dispensing rate was grew approximately 125 basis points versus the same quarter of last year to 82.1%.
We saw strength on the top-line versus our guidance due to primarily to higher volumes than expected particularly in Medicaid drug price inflation and mix including the new Hep C drugs.
In our retail business revenues increased 2.9% in the quarter to $17.7 billion driven primarily by strong pharmacy same-store sales growth despite the transition of specialty revenues in to the PBM segment due to Specialty Connect.
Like the PBM retail exceeded guidance due to higher volumes in pharmacy.
Turning to gross margin we reported 17.9% for the consolidated company in the quarter a contraction of approximately 140 basis points compared to Q4 13 and consistent with our expectations.
Within the PBM segment gross margins declined 100 basis points versus Q4 13 to 5.2% while gross profit dollars increased 2.2% year-over-year.
The increase in gross profit dollars was primarily attributable to the increase in volumes the improvement in GDR and favorable rebate economics.
Partially offsetting these drivers was the impact of client and drug mix as well as continuing client pricing pressures.
Gross margins for retail segment was 31.4% up approximately 65 basis points over LY.
This improvement was driven by the 140 basis point increase in retail GDR to 82.4% the benefit to front store margins from the tobacco exit increased store brand penetration as well as the first quarterly payment we received from Cardinal as part of the Red Oak sourcing venture.
Partially offsetting these drivers was the continued pressure on reimbursement rates.
Gross profit dollars increased 5.2% in the quarter.
Total operating expense as a percent of revenues notably improved from Q4 13 to 11.6%.
The PBM segments SG&amp;A rate improved by 20 basis points to 1.4%.
We spent more on 1/1 readiness for the PBMs welcome season than we expected; but with the over delivery of revenues in the quarter we were able to deliver the modest improvement we had planned.
As reported SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in the retail segment deteriorated by approximately 35 basis points to 21.3%.
However this was driven by the reduction in retail sales related to our decision to exit the tobacco category as well as the impact of Specialty Connect shifting again sales from our retail segment into the PBM.
On an underlying basis SG&amp;A as a percent of sales at retail actually improved by approximately 50 basis points.
Within the Corporate segment expenses were up approximately $7 million to $205 million again within expectations.
Operating margin for the total enterprise declined approximately 50 basis points in the quarter to 6.3%.
Operating margin in the PBM declined approximately 80 basis points to 3.8% while operating margin at retail improved by approximately 35 basis points to 10.1%.
For the quarter we exceeded our estimates for operating profit growth in the retail segment.
Retail operating profit increased a solid 6.5% exceeding expectations by approximately 25 basis points.
PBM operating profit increased 0.9% in the middle of our guidance range.
And now going below the line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter decreased approximately $4 million from last year to $131 million.
This was due primarily to lower average interest rates.
Additionally our effective tax rate was 39.6% our weighted average share count was 1.2 billion shares only slightly higher than anticipated.
So with that now let me touch on our 2015 guidance which remains unchanged from Analyst Day.
You can find the details in the slide presentation we posted on our Web site but Ill focus on the highlights here.
We continue to expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share in 15 in the range of $5.05 to $5.19 a share reflecting very healthy year-over-year growth even after removing the impact in 14 related to the loss on the early extinguishment of debt.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $4.77 to $4.91 a share.
We expect consolidated net revenue growth of 7% to 8.25% which reflect solid underlying growth across the enterprise.
Retail revenues are expected to increase by 1.25% to 2.5% despite the negative impact of the tobacco exit.
Recall that we expect the tobacco exit to have a negative impact on total same store sales of approximately 175 basis points for the year and is expected to have a negative impact of approximately 575 basis points on front store cost for the year as well.
While the impact last quarter was a bit better than we expected it's only been a few months since we became tobacco free.
So were maintaining our initial guidance on the impact to our cost.
We expect growth in PBM revenues of between 11% and 12.25%.
We expect retail operating profit to increase 4.75% to 6.5% year-over-year and PBM operating profit to increase 6.75% to 10.75%.
The first quarter guidance also remains unchanged from what we talked about in December.
As you may recall we highlighted several timing factors back in Analyst Day that affect the cadence of profit delivery throughout this year.
And while 2015 is expected to be a strong year the cadence of profit growth is expected to be significantly back half weighted.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of a $1.06 to a $1.09 a share reflecting growth of 4% to 7.25% versus the same period of LY.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in a range of $0.99 to a $1.02 in the first quarter.
Within the Retail segment we continue to expect revenues to increase 1.5% to 3% and operating profit growth of between negative 1.5% to a positive 1.5% year-over-year.
Recall that we expect the tobacco exit to have an approximately 900 basis point negative impact on front store comps in the first quarter.
Now revenues in the PBM segment still are expected to grow between 14.5% to 15.75% while operating profit growth is expected to be flat to down 5%.
Additionally our free cash flow guidance for the year remains in the range of between $5.9 billion to $6.2 billion and Ill remind you that were maintaining that range despite the pull forward of some receivables into 2014.
So in closing I'd like to reinforce with everyone two important thoughts.
First I continue to be very pleased with the Companys significant cash flow generation capabilities.
I believe these capabilities should continue to play an important role in driving shareholder value over the longer-term.
Second and to that point 2015 will be another year in which we demonstrate our ongoing commitment to returning value to our shareholders increasing the dividend and share buyback programs by more than 30% over last year.
And so with that Ill turn it back over to Larry.
Thanks Dave.
And let me just reiterate how pleased we are with the progress that weve made this past year in advancing our innovative healthcare strategies along with rebranding our company and Id like to take a minute to thank our more than 200 000 colleagues who continue to work hard each and every day executing those strategies.
So with that let's go ahead and open it up for your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
On the PBM side I noticed EBITDA per claim was a little bit late in the quarter and down year-over-year.
I know you said it increased spending.
I'm wondering if you could comment on whether or not that spending was more of a pull forward for Jan 1 starts or something more incremental.
I think increased spending was really related to the 1/1 readiness effort.
So we spent as you know incremental money through Q4 and we talked about the incremental money that were going to spend actually in Q1 as we ramp up those new clients for the welcome season.
And then the other thing you guys said it was price compression around the EBITDA per claim.
I know you mentioned that last quarter as well.
I'm just wondering if you could shed any more light on what exactly that was? Is this something from previous PBM contracts or is it something more related to the new starts again? Bob I think this is just the ongoing margin compression that were continuing to see and expect to see as we move forward on both the PBM as well as the retail side.
So there is nothing that is new beyond what weve been talking about probably for the last couple of years.
Our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel from Guggenheim Securities.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
So for Larry or John if you guys dissect or try to dissect the upcoming 16 selling season in terms of size and then composition how do you think that compares to 2015 and do you think -- are you better positioned for 16 given what we saw in 15 or about the same? John it's Larry Ill start and Jon will I'm sure jump in as well.
But the latter part of your question we think were extremely well positioned for all the reasons that we touched on earlier and that we talked about in greater detail at Analyst Day.
I think that if you go back and look at the 15 selling season over 14 there was a lot more RFP activity recognizing that we thought 14 was an anomaly as people were preparing for the impact of the Affordable Care Act.
So we think that 15 was kind of a return to a normal selling season and we dont see 16 any different.
It's early but we think it's -- we think it will mirror what we saw this past year.
And John this is Jon.
I think the size and composition is going to be similar to what weve seen.
Its health plans which were seeing now large employers that were seeing now.
Youll see the mid-sized and small importers later in the year and we expect to see a fair amount of state government opportunities as well.
Okay and then just one other thing.
How do you guys think about capital allocation and buyback as it relates to share price valuation? Does that discussion come into effect at all where you might think lets do more on the dividend side let's consider a special dividend? Or is it really kind of a long-term view that over the long-term buying back $5 billion or $6 billion a year is really the right thing to do? John its Dave.
We've been pretty consistent on our capital allocation program for several years and we've outlined it and all the different components of it.
I will tell you though we do look forward to the growth of our business.
We look at where we think we're going to be in several years in the future and then we make sure that we're performing what we would consider value enhancing share repurchases based on where the growth of our business and the cash generation capability of our business over the next several years compared to the evaluation.
So we will continue to monitor that and we will continue to flex our capital allocation program to drive value for shareholders in the short-term as well as the long-term John.
Our next question comes from the line of Meredith Adler from Barclays.
Your line is open please proceed with your question.
Eric Percher and I have the question as well.
I have a question just about expenses at retail.
You did a good job of managing them.
I'm just wondering if you actually had to make meaningful changes in labor hours or the way you had work done at the stores because you gave up tobacco and Specialty Connect or was that not actually something that you had to deal with? Meredith its Larry.
I'll start and we have not been doing anything out of the norm that we havent -- that hasnt been part of our program for the last couple of years.
We have always looked for ways in which we can become a more efficient operator at retail and thats where our focus has been this past year and will continue to be as we go forward.
So the improvement is impressive.
I will turn it over to Eric now.
He has a question.
Sure a question on formulary.
As you look at the 2016 selling season do you think your formulary decision around Hep C can stand as an advantage? I know you feel there is advantages to your formulary focus but do you think that specifically can and if so does it beg the question will we ever PBMs move to a point where there is such a delta in what is offered by each PBM that a sponsor would choose their PBM based on product availability? Eric its Larry.
I'll start and I'm sure Jon will jump in as well.
But as you think about Hep C specifically our goal was to create the lowest net-cost solution for the entire population of patients recognizing that our clients have a lot of flexibility in terms of the programs that we have that meets their priorities.
And in addition to achieving the lowest net-cost solution we also evaluated a variety of factors including the current and future projected distribution of a population across the several genotypes the average duration of therapy of the various agents factors that contribute to medication adherence along with our ability to further control cost through utilization management programs.
And I go back to some of the things that we talk about at Analyst Day where through our formulary management program since it started back in 2012 we have saved clients over $3.5 billion.
There is a growing opportunity in the specialty class recognizing that I think we ended 14 with 31 specialty exclusions and and there is a lot more that we can do to bend the cost curve in specialty beyond just managing the formulary.
And maybe I'll ask Jon to talk a little more about that respective piece.
So Eric clearly Specialties are clients biggest concerns.
Formulary is a piece of that but there is also a lot of other things that you can do to help manage that trend and then are also interested in managing it under the medical side which we have a unique solution.
So I think formulary is one piece of the strategy.
Your question around the differences in formularies between the different PBMs and the impact on that as clients make decisions we really havent seen that as a factor in the selling season.
We've been very effective the transitioning members off of non-formulary drugs.
We've very effective at transitioning members from competitors' formularies to our formularies and we're seeing that this selling season.
So I dont -- I am not seeing formulary as a differentiator as clients are making decisions.
I think they're really looking at what we are able to deliver there we're very competitive there.
But they're also looking at all the other capabilities differentiated capabilities that we have.
And at the end of the day thats what makes the difference.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen of Leerink Partners.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Was there an impact to gross margins in the retail division and pharmacy services division due to Specialty Connect? Was there a benefit to retail and a bit of a headwind to pharmacy services that can be sized out itself? I cant really size that.
I will say that from a rate perspective it is slightly beneficial to from a rate perspective to retail to think about those specialty prescriptions.
Theyre largely branded prescriptions and branded prescriptions carry a lower gross margin than a generic prescription would.
So that would serve to lift retail gross margins when you transfer those scripts out of retail into PBM [indiscernible].
It will immaterial though in totality.
Okay so you had like 67 bps of gross margin expansion in retail.
Weve been hearing a lot about generic inflation.
One of your competitors has obviously been talking about rate pressures.
Its not like the Specialty Connect had a huge impact on -- your performing well? No that is certainly not the driver of rate improvement at retail.
You go back and you look at whats driving performance in retail there continues to be gains in prescription volume along with the improvements in GDR and our improvements in economics as we drive down the cost from a procurement standpoint.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee from Cowen Group.
Your line is open please proceed with your question.
I have a question on -- I think you talked about earlier outperformance in retail pharmacy and that was all the more surprising because of the Specialty Connect transition.
At this point is all Specialty drugs that someone comes into the retail outlet into the retail store is that all being recorded in PBM? Are there any sort of categories that will still end up getting dispensed out of retail? Almost all.
Then can you talk about what was driving the outperformance at the retail pharmacy side then? Again if you go back if you look at whats really driving it it is our continued share gain from a pharmacy perspective.
You look at the volumes of prescriptions going through our dispensing channel at retail continues to enhance our performance from that perspective? And Charles we mentioned and Ill go back to our prepared remarks where we saw 55 basis point increase in pharmacy market share in the fourth quarter.
We also acknowledge that there was a bit of an uptick from the flu season that we began to see in the business in the later weeks in the quarter.
Okay great.
Was there anything on the mix though and was it more on Medicare or versus Commercial any kind of color that you can provide there? Thanks.
No I dont think there was anything that was materially different than weve seen in past quarters from that perspective.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser from Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Biosimilars seems to be an area of focus in recent weeks and they may be on the market sooner than we previously expected.
How should we think about the potential contribution of the biosimilar from PBM and retail perspective and maybe you can help us rank quarter as we think about where [indiscernible] is compared to contribution of specialty drugs with kind of [indiscernible] rebates like Hep C versus kind of like generics that are on the marketplace today? Ricky this is Jon.
Still early in this whole arena but I -- as I -- what I know today I would think about biosimilars as being more like branded competition.
And so the majority of the value will come in the form of rebates and obviously most of that value passes along to our clients.
Now to the extent that theyre able to make them interchangeable and at function more like generics in the non-specialty world then I think you would see them act more like generics.
But I think its early to see how that plays out.
Okay.
And then just one thought on the Specialty.
Obviously you raised a very interesting point about the fact that the [indiscernible] contribution that youre seeing the way you can help manage Specialty is not just tied to formulary and at the medical side represents a very nice opportunity.
So when we think about kind of like your customer is buying Specialty though you and we think about the NovoLogix offering and what do you think is what is the -- or what percent of your [indiscernible] year-to-date ask you also to manage it on the medical side and how do you think that rent can progress over time? Its a good question.
I would say Specialty on the medical side most of that activity is concentrated with our health plan clients.
So were seeing a lot of interest in that space.
Obviously as we begin to manage that we believe that increases are dispensing opportunities as well because some of those drugs cant be dispensed through us and we think of our Coram platform is even being an enabler to penetrate the dispensing space to an even greater extent than what we do today.
And Ricky I think to that point the value proposition here centers around the ability to manage the Specialty patient not simply the administration of a particular drug recognizing that with the very fast that we now have Jon mentioned Coram and our infusion capabilities along with [indiscernible] to NovoLogix we can demonstrate for the client cost savings opportunities by simply migrating the patient through a lower cost high quality side of service.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin from Wolfe Research.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Hopefully you're surviving the blizzard up there in the northeast.
So more of a conceptual question.
I was just kind of send back listening to the call listening to you guys talk and remembering the Analyst Day it seems to me if I look out over the next 12 to 24 months there seems to be an upward bias to business performance and I wanted to see if you guys agree with that.
I look at like kind of silver script I look at Medicaid expense and Ohio did it I look at the front end and the potential to up sell there with all the clinics that are coming in and just the volumes that are going into your pharmacies.
So if you agree with that that there does seem to be some upward momentum to your business as you look over the next 12 or 24 months? This is Dave.
Maybe Ill start.
I think as we -- you heard at Analyst Day despite the fact that we come from a very large place in terms of the size of the Company we have a lot of growth outlooks and opportunities in our business where you outlined over the next five years of how were going to grow the top-line fairly significantly gaining share across both the PBM market space as well as the retail market space and be able through that share gain be able to drive performance in operating profit and with the cash that we generate be able to further enhance that through the capital allocation program.
So I do think as we look at the marketplace there is always challenges in every marketplace but there is really a lot of opportunities for our differentiated model to plug in to payers and providers and consumers in ways that add value for them and quite frankly add value for us.
And Scott I mean it's a great question and I think Dave answered well.
The only thing that I would add is there is still so much flux in the marketplace and back to Dave's explain about -- weve got a multitude of assets that a while -- but we can be pretty nimble and I think we described that we can pivot to additional changes that we see in the marketplace in a pretty quick and innovative fashion.
So appreciate.
And this is a follow-up same line under thinking.
It also seems that the asset productivity is important to you guys and it does seem even though there is margin pressure that the outflow of money into asset doesnt have to be huge and so we could get some continued increase in ROIC.
Do you agree with that as well? I do.
I think if you look at what were trying to do here is as we gain dispensing share -- that dispensing share can be -- we can essentially leverage the fixed asset infrastructure of our business both at the Retail segment as well as in the PBM space and that really allows us to accelerate our returns profile.
Our next question comes from the line of George Hill from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
I have a question about what I'm going to call your clairvoyance because one of things that I would -- I guess do you guys -- in this case you guys seem to be able to see the future.
Because when we went to your Analyst Day in mid-December I'm intrigued that the PBM guidance doesnt move a basis point despite all the gyrations in the Hep C market.
So I guess my question is as we think about that in early December did you guys know this was coming? Did you guys -- did this all play out exactly how you guys thought? Other angles are does it not move the needle does it not impact enough scripts or the rebate is not big enough is the amount of money that you are make in Hep C not big enough to move the needle? Not even at the revenue line it doesnt move the needle.
So I guess -- maybe this is a planning question maybe this is a process question maybe this is a market question but I guess can you just give us some color on the background of Hep C and how it will kind of -- it all obviously played out exactly according to your expectations? Well George it's Larry.
Ill start and then I'm sure Dave will jump in.
But we appreciate your comments.
I would say that as were doing our planning our outlook and our guidance range implies a range of assumptions and I think I would say that at the end of the day its that simple; that as we talk about our outlook for 15 we've got within that guidance range of $0.14 it comprehends where the market could go.
And as we talked about this morning we're comfortable with where we're at today and that outlook remains intact.
And I would I think also George just from that perspective it relates lets say Specialty in Hep C we've been planning for this event for a while.
This wasnt like a shock to us.
We had a lot of experience in this category.
We have been working hard with clients and within our organization to better manage Specialty for them.
We see the pipeline we have a good view of the pipeline and with the constructed a series of programs that allowed us to work to improve our performance in this area on behalf of our clients.
And so this was something that was very plain fold from our perspective and we saw it coming to some degree.
Okay and the quick follow-up then would be is this how the Hep C market evolved in late December early January? Is there anything different from that playbook that's different from the playbook with how we thought about the Statin class or how we should think about drugs going forward? We got a lot of questions about -- I guess we've gotten a got a lot of questions about this space.
To us its just a regular PBM playbook.
I guess from your perspective in Hep C was there anything different in the way this kind of all unfolded? I dont think there is much difference.
And George I think this all go back to when we started this in 2011 for the 2000 plan year.
I think that we demonstrated in that first year that this can be a cost save -- a very effective cost savings opportunity for clients and it can be executed at -- with a high degree of service to the members and certainly this whole process starts with ensuring appropriate clinical outcomes.
And I think we continue to see those opportunities going forward.
George the only thing that I would say is different as we move into the Specialty realm is there will be more complexity around managing it.
So as an example Harvoni is for genotype 1.
And so thats whats on a formulary for those patients that have to Hep C with genotype 1 and then you have other options for the other genotypes.
And so I think you will see a combination of formulary and utilization management programs.
So that just adds a little bit complexity but I agree with Dave and Larry.
Its very similar what we have seen in the past and our capabilities are playing out in this space as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill from JPMorgan.
Your line is open please proceed with your question.
I was wondering if maybe you could just talk about plan design for 2015.
As we talked to some of your clients in our annual surveys in December people talked about minuteclinic they also talked about maintenance -- obviously we talked a lot about Specialty today and that was clearly one of the things that came out when we talked to clients as well.
But can you maybe just talk about some of the other things that are changing for January 1 2015 and you talked about spending a lot of dollars and time around implementation.
What were some other changes that came about from a plan design perspective? Lisa I think it was just more of the same more penetration and high deductible plans and just higher penetration of all the things that you just talked about.
So we really havent seen anything different than that although I will think -- I do think you'll see much more aggressive management in the specialty space around the plan designs.
So much higher adoption of formulary strategies.
And I think as you recall at Analyst Day we did talk about -- of the new business we brought on board 35% adopted some narrow network.
So I think you're just going to see more aggressive programs like this with plan designs as clients begin to see these higher trends year-over-year growth for their drug spends.
Okay and then my follow-up question Dave was around Red Oak.
On the generic percentage you talked about the payment from Cardinal but did you see any incremental savings in addition to the payment that you saw from Cardinal? Yes we did.
As we said we're kind of in the early stages of that effort.
As we indicated back at Analyst Day there is several different ways in which we drive economics here.
Part of that is lowering our cost-of-goods sold from Red Oak and we did see some improvement based on the program.
Is there a way to quantify that or you're done quantifying it? There is way to quantify but unfortunately we're not going to quantify it.
Our next question comes from the line of Frank Morgan from RBC.
Your line is open please proceed with your question.
I was curious when you gave your guidance back in December at Analyst Day what did you contemplate at that point in time regarding discounts related to Hep C? Frank thats also a great question that unfortunately we cant get into that level of specificity.
But we -- as we talked about earlier our guidance as we thought about 2015 had a range of -- kind of has a range of scenarios built within it and at that point in time we had some clarity around kind of how the market was going to shape up for us there.
Okay and as you think -- a lot of discussion today about the specialty and different strategies.
Are there any pieces that you are missing strategically that you feel like you need on the specialty side in terms of as new drugs come to market? So Frank that's a great question.
I dont know that there is any -- we dont really have any gaps from an asset perspective.
I will tell you though that weve been working hard to increase our business within the medical benefit management sector if you will with NovoLogix as a good example.
There's probably other opportunities for us to continue to penetrate that market.
So there's probably more to come there.
We're probably really early stages from that perspective.
Frank this is Jon.
The one space we dont play in much today is the oncology space.
Most of that is administered in physician offices.
We do think as the marketplace moves to more risk based reimbursement arrangements that that business will view the administration of drugs -- they view it as a profit center today and as it becomes more risk based that will become an expense center for them.
So theyll be looking for solutions and people that can operate in that space more effective.
So were working hard to understand how to extend into that space and we think our capabilities give us a great great platform to do that.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Alvin Concepcion from Citi.
Your line is open please proceed with your question.
Just a couple of quick ones.
Just a follow up on the Red Oak question.
How would you characterize the savings that you talked about versus what you would have expected at this point in time? And then just the follow up is on generic inflation.
What are you seeing there? And what is your outlook for the year? Well take generic inflation first.
As we have said there has been limited pockets of inflation within the generic universe.
I wont say that in totality the generic markets still maintains a very deflationary nature and we believe that that will continue both in the short-term as well as the long term.
I think as it relates to Red Oak I think the team has done terrific job in standing up that operation.
They've met with the lion's share of manufacturers and we continue to be pleased with the progress.
I think that theyre tracking consistent as we plan for them as this point in time.
And Alvin I think Id just reiterate the three ways in which value is created with Red Oak.
Obviously one is the fixed payment schedule which started in Q4.
The second one is there are some additional milestones that have been created that will allow for additional payments.
And then the third is what Dave alluded to on an earlier question in terms of just the opportunity to create additional reductions in the cost of goods by creating a more efficient supply chain.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette from UBS.
Your line is open please proceed with your question.
So I dont know if I missed this but was there any general color on the mix of the $0.4 billion in additional PBM selling season between health plans and employers or government contracts? No.
Steve it was more just general mix probably maybe it skews a little more to the health plan size recognizing some of the true ups that take place from their enrolment season.
Okay and then separately just quickly 0.5 million additional PDP liability that you mentioned for early 15 is that net of any Medicare retiree business that you talked about at the Analyst Day that you may have lost to public exchanges or do those particular member losses show up in a separate bucket somewhere else? Steve thats great question and that is a net number inclusive of the variables that you talked about.
And so -- and by the way you can go back to one of Jons slide's at Analyst Day that kind of did the mapping from where we were to what we were projecting including the shift in retirees what we were projecting open enrollment at that point in time and it came -- the final net number was pretty close to that forecast.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard from Cleveland Research.
Your line is open please proceed with your questions.
Two things.
First of all just a follow on with Red Oak.
Curious on what inning you would say youre in in terms of realizing the purchasing benefits from that effort? Eric I would say were probably in the fourth or fifth inning in terms of the work and the opportunities.
Hey Eric this is Dave.
The one thing I would -- just one word of caution there is that this isnt a game where there I think is a beginning and an end.
This is a process that is ongoing continuously.
So while we might have got to the fourth inning as Larry just spoke about were going to start a new game soon enough and we continually need to work to improve our cost structure and thats one way we'll do that.
And then secondly there was some conversation earlier about the 2016 selling season and the composition and it sounded like you suggested that the opportunity was similar to that what you enjoyed in 15.
I'm just wondering if you could talk a bit further about -- 15 was obviously a great success.
If that is obviously you aspire to repeat that in 16 but is that reasonable to think that you could achieve a similar level of success in 16 relative to what you did for 15? Eric I think there is two comments around that and first is the fact that as weve been talking a lot about over the last couple of years the differentiation that the integrated model brings out into the marketplace and how we think that we can meet clients' needs for their business and obviously their members in a very differentiated way in terms of satisfying their goals and I think as were talking -- as were thinking about the 16 selling season I think based on where we sit today it really has more to do with -- we expect the RFP activity to be at a similar level to what we experienced last year.
So obviously it's very early and well talk more about it as we go through the year but were optimistic as a result of our integrated model.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Larry have you assumed any change in strategy at your number one retail competitor? What might you do differently this year to take advantage of any disruption or how might you be disadvantaged? Yes Bob its Larry.
Maybe Ill start and then just ask Helena to jump in as well and Bob I think our focus continues to be on our business and what we can manage and control within the four walls of what we do well every day and the opportunities that we continue to see there.
And maybe Ill ask Helena just to talk more about how she is thinking about the retail business and the opportunities that exist there within CVS.
Yes I think it's a good time for us and opportunity for us just given whats going on in these -- the one thing we havent talked that yet this morning is just the successful launch of this new CVS Health brand which is definitely resonating with consumers that were seeing about 1 100 basis point increase in their awareness of CVS Health and consumers are really seeing our Company as a leader in healthcare.
And so thats exactly what were hoping for and were using that momentum to focus on health and beauty as we talked about at Analyst Day.
And just keeping our eye on the ball and running the business and -- all of that will come to good outcome for CVS.
Our next question comes from the line of John Ransom from Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Just a couple of quick ones.
First of all assuming Nexium goes non-exclusive as a multisource David is there any reason to assume as you said in the past that thats kind of the best of all worlds for you as it blows right through exclusivity? Well it's hard to say specifically but my expectation as we've always said is that were most advantaged at the point in which there is many manufacturers in the market for a generic drug and if that were to occur I assume that that would be best for us yes.
And secondly I am curious about -- everybody just on specialty differently but I'm curious about what you're telling your clients.
So maybe this is a question for Jon.
Once we lap the Sovaldi spike what the Specialty trend looks like from there? We have the PCSK9 inhibitors coming out this summer that could be as big could potentially be even bigger than Hep C.
So pharma is really focused in the space.
So I think this is going to be an ongoing challenge for our clients and an opportunity for us to step in and really help them manage this area.
Weve been communicating with clients that left unabated you can expect to see Specialty trends in the high-teens.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly from Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
Larry you mentioned that youve taken a disciplined approach to preferred Part D networks.
I was just hoping if maybe you can give us a little bit more color on that angle given the marketplace does seem to be competitive and how important it is for you to have a material presence in that business long-term? Ed it's a great question.
And it is important for us to have a presence in that business which we believe we have today recognizing all the different ways in which we can engage and touch the Medicare consumer.
And you go back to some of the things that we have talked about we coined it silver tsunami the fact you have got 10 000 baby boomers turning 365 [ph] every day.
Back to your first question the competitive recognizes that participation in a preferred network comes with associated margin compression.
And I think our retail organization has done a terrific job in terms of building an economic model that evaluates margin compression against forecasted share shift.
And there are times when the economics make sense and we proceed and there are other times where the economics dont make sense.
Recognizing that all part D plans are not equal in terms of their design whether its co-pays or the makeup of that Part D plan in terms of balance between choosers and low income subsidies.
I think at the same time we also have a unique opportunity recognizing that you saw the announcements coming out of HHS last week and the focus in terms of moving more to outcomes management.
We participate today in terms of supporting our health plan clients through stars ratings and we know that in a PDP plan we can affect over 50% of that stars ratings with the ways in which we engage and touch that patient.
So we think that there is tremendous opportunities across our book of business to work with patients as well as health plan clients in terms of achieving their goals.
Our last question comes from the line of Ross Muken from Evercore ISI.
Your line is open.
Please proceed with your question.
So I'm curious building a little off of what Helena said and then also just kind of going back to tobacco what have been sort of the key things that both the tobacco decision as well as the rebranding have kind of given you from an enterprise perspective that maybe you werent looking for originally and has there been anything sort of unsuspecting that has been something thats been more challenging to sort of offset the headwind.
I'm just trying to see what was assumed and how it sort of developed either positively or negatively? As Dave and Larry have said we're pleased with where we are now.
There was certainly a lot of moving parts and it's hard for us to really identify what was driving what.
But I'd say in terms of surprises probably things like to the extent which are 200 000 colleagues feel incredibly proud about this decision we thought they would but its really driven a very a ostensive excitement I would say among the organization a sense of pride to work for Company that would make a decision like that.
The branding I think has been as I said before its been successful and its making people think differently about the Company and what we're trying to do is say to consumers we're not just like any drug store or any corner.
We're part of a big healthcare company.
And when they see all of the assets that we have and understand all that we do they start to think about it very differently.
So thats been a really exciting part of this decision as well.
And I also think that internally for our merchants its given them a sense of where do we go from here.
I mentioned at Analyst Day all that we're doing around healthy food and health and beauty and it's given them an even stronger sense of purpose to drive those business.
Thats really what we are focused on.
And then Ross this is Jon to add to that.
As I'm out talking and I'll focus on new perspective clients that maybe dont know us as well as our existing clients its something that we talk about our repositioning in the marketplace as a healthcare provider the discontinuation of tobacco.
And there is clearly a halo effect that I see from our clients that makes them feel good about potentially doing business with the company that has taken a stand like that in the marketplace.
And Ross I'll warp-it up by talking about the provider the physician community and I think that we've seen this come into play as we think about some of the health system affiliations that we alluded to in the call and this certainly aligns us with their goals as well.
And I think its opening up some doors to -- some potentially unique opportunities as we go forward.
Again let me just take a minute and thank everybody for their time this morning and your ongoing interest in CVS Health.
And if you have any follow-up questions you know how to reach Nancy or Mike.
Thanks again.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your line.
Greetings and welcome to the CVS Health Second Quarter Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will be formed after the presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host today Ms.
Nancy Christal Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Latanya.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I'm here this morning with Larry Merlo President and CEO who will provide a business update; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO who will review our second quarter results as well as guidance for the third quarter and year.
Jon Roberts President of the PBM; and Helena Foulkes President of the Retail business are also with us today and they'll participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow up so we can provide more people with a chance to ask their questions.
I have one key date to announce this morning.
We plan to host our Annual Analyst Day in New York City on the morning of Wednesday December 16.
At that time you'll have the opportunity to hear from several members of our senior management team who will provide 2016 guidance as well as a comprehensive update on our strategies for growth.
We plan to e-mail invitations with more specific details later this month so please save the date.
Again that's Wednesday December 16.
And if you don't receive an invitation by early September and would like to attend please contact me.
Also please note that we posted a slide presentation on our website just prior to the start of this call.
The slides summarize the information you'll hear today as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
Additionally our Form 10-Q will be filed later this afternoon and it will be available on our website at that time.
Please note that during today's presentation we'll make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
By their nature all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons as described in our SEC filings including the Risk Factors section and cautionary statement disclosures in those filings.
During this call we'll also use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our company's performance including free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us and I'm very pleased to have the opportunity to discuss the strong second quarter results we posted today.
Adjusted earnings per share increased 7.7% to $1.22.
That excludes $0.03 of acquisition-related transaction and financing costs.
And it's $0.02 above the high-end of our guidance range.
Operating profit in the Retail business declined 1.4% coming in better than expectations while reflecting the tougher comparisons to last year and operating profit in the PBM increased 7.1% in line with expectations.
We generated $523 million of free cash during the quarter and more than $2.1 billion year-to-date keeping us on track to achieve our full year free cash flow goal and to continue to return significant value to our shareholders.
Now given our outperformance this quarter along with the previously-announced acquisition-related decision to reduce this year's share repurchases by $1 billion we are once again narrowing our guidance range.
Excluding acquisition-related transaction and financing costs we currently expect to achieve adjusted EPS for 2015 of $5.11 to $5.18 and that compares to our previous range of $5.08 to $5.19.
And Dave will discuss this guidance in more detail during his financial review.
Now let me provide a brief update on the status of our pending acquisitions before reviewing the performance of our business.
In May we announced we entered into an agreement to acquire Omnicare a leading provider of pharmacy services to long-term care facilities.
The Omnicare acquisition provides a new pharmacy dispensing channel for us enhancing our ability to provide the continuity of care for patients as they transition through the healthcare system and we remain very excited to assume leadership in this adjacent space.
Omnicare also has a complementary specialty business that will augment our capabilities.
Now as you know the transaction is subject to approval by Omnicare shareholders as well as other customary closing conditions including regulatory approval.
We currently expect the deal to close prior to the end of this year perhaps as early as the third quarter.
However for financial modeling purposes we are still assuming the transaction closes near the end of 2015.
In June we announced that we entered into an agreement to acquire Target's more than 1 660 pharmacies and approximately 80 clinics.
This transaction enables us to reach more patients.
It adds a new retail channel for our unique offerings.
And it expands convenient options for consumers.
The acquisition will expand our retail presence in new markets and enhance the healthcare experience for Target guests.
So we're very excited to be partnering with Target another iconic brand with complementary strengths and culture.
And like the Omnicare deal this transaction is also subject to customary closing conditions including necessary regulatory clearance and the timing of the close of the Target transaction is uncertain as it could fall into 2015 or 2016.
Now turning to the business update and I'll start with the 2016 PBM selling season.
The marketplace has been active.
Overall RFP volume is consistent with last year and I'm pleased to report that we are having a very successful selling season.
Gross wins currently stand at approximately $12 billion with net new business standing at approximately $11 billion.
Now these new business numbers include estimated revenues based on current enrollment from the previously disclosed transition of the Coventry Med D business.
These net new numbers do not include any impact from our individual Medicare Part D PDP which I'll touch on in a few minutes.
Now while our win span across client segments a significant portion is in the Health Plans Segment demonstrating that our model is resonating strongly in that space.
It's also important to note that the gross win revenue estimates for the Health Plans we've been awarded may be updated as a result of their Med D bid and open enrollment.
So the revenue numbers I cited could change a bit based on those results.
To-date we have completed nearly 60% of our client renewals for 2016 that's pretty typical for this time of the year and we have seen strong retention.
Our specialty pharmacy suite of services continues to gain share.
Our differentiated specialty offerings provide a high level of clinical support to patients while allowing us to effectively manage trend for our clients.
And with brand price increases and the accelerating growth in specialty we are finding more clients receptive to our solutions that bend that cost curve.
In the second quarter we continue to grow faster than the market with specialty revenues increasing a healthy 28.4%.
Now this growth is very robust and more than double the market growth rates but less than recent quarters as we have cycled the addition of Coram and have seen a flattening in the utilization trend of the new Hep C drugs.
Our unique Specialty Connect offering continues to experience strong increases in prescription volumes along with high satisfaction scores with patients payers and providers.
And you'll recall that Specialty Connect provides our patients with a choice to receive their specialty scripts either at a CVS pharmacy or from our mail center while receiving the central clinical expertise that leads to better health outcomes no matter which channel they choose.
And as a reminder regardless of the delivery channel patients choose all specialty revenues now flow to the PBM Segment since that is where the actual fulfillment occurs.
As you're aware we've developed a comprehensive set of programs to effectively manage specialty trend.
One important component is our leading formulary exclusion strategy.
And we expect to employ similar strategies to manage the new class of cholesterol-lowering agents the PCSK9 inhibitors.
The potential size of the PCSK9 market is larger than any specialty product available today and it's our job to deliver the lowest possible price and to help ensure that the right patients are receiving these medications.
So we developed a comprehensive approach to the management of this product class to ensure appropriate utilization and cost management for our clients and their members.
And with our unmatched suite of assets we can provide a completely integrated specialty patient experience in the most cost-effective way possible.
Now let me also touch on our formulary strategy more broadly as our approach for traditional drug therapies also continues to be enhanced.
Yesterday we notified our clients that we will be removing 26 additional products from the 2016 standard formulary.
Our guiding principles around formulary management include maintaining clinical integrity reducing pharmacy cost for plan sponsors and effectively transitioning members onto the formulary.
And our rigorous approach to formulary management has resulted in billions of dollars of savings for our clients.
Our medical claims management capability through Novologix is also receiving notable interest.
To-date we have about 18 million lives installed for editing or repricing with a significant amount of others being implemented or in discussion.
Our infusion capabilities through Coram remain a significant differentiator with clients.
Site-of-care management is a key component of managing costs for specialty patients and we offer clients various solutions to help successfully manage those costs.
Before turning to Retail let me touch briefly on our Med D PDP SilverScript.
We currently have about 3.4 million captive lives in our individual PDP.
While 1.1 million captive EGWP lives and we serve another 3.4 million lives through our Health Plan clients.
So in total we currently serve about 7.9 million Medicare Part D lives.
Late last week we received the preliminary benchmark results from CMS for 2016 and I'm pleased to report that SilverScript once again qualified in 32 of the 34 regions.
And these strong benchmark results should enable us to retain the vast majority of the auto assignees we currently serve and it positions us well for future growth.
So obviously we're very pleased with these results.
Now moving on to the Retail business pharmacy same-store prescription volumes increased 4.8% and that's on a 30-day equivalent basis and we continue to gain pharmacy share.
Our Retail Pharmacy market share was 21.6% in the quarter and that's up about 60 basis points versus the same quarter a year ago.
Pharmacy same-store sales increased 4.1% and were negatively impacted by about 370 basis points due to recent generic introductions and another 80 basis points from the implementation of Specialty Connect which again transfers specialty scripts from our Retail to our PBM Segment.
In the front store comps were down 7.8% and on a comparable basis front store sales would've been essentially flat after adjusting for the tobacco impact.
And while we experienced a decrease in front store traffic that was partially offset by an increase in the average customer basket.
And once again we gained share in our core health and beauty categories in both the drug and multi-outlet markets.
We continue to focus on positioning ourselves as a leading health and beauty destination to drive profitable growth.
And to-date we've expanded healthy snack food options in about 275 stores and our plan is to complete the healthy food rollout in about 450 stores by year end.
Now we're also upgrading the beauty departments in several thousand stores this year with the goal of positioning CVS as the leader in beauty.
Early results in these stores have been very positive and we plan to expand our healthy food and elevated beauty programs in 2016.
We've talked a lot about ExtraCare and ExtraCare continues to be an important driver of profitable front store growth.
On a rolling 12 month basis through Q2 customers redeemed savings and ExtraBucks totaling more than $4 billion.
We've been focused on delivering the right offer to the right customer at the right time and in the right channel.
And digital and specifically mobile are important tools in powering up our personalization efforts.
We have an industry-leading highly rated mobile app with a new and improved ExtraCare experience and to-date more than 10 million customers have downloaded that app.
Front store margins in the quarter continued to benefit from the tobacco exit along with an improved product mix.
And on a comparable basis to last year even after adjusting for the tobacco elimination front store margins once again improved notably.
Store Brand penetration continues to increase in the quarter reaching 20.9% of front store sales and that's up about 265 basis points from last year with about 120 basis points of that growth resulting from tobacco being excluded from the denominator.
And we continue to see broad-based opportunities for further Store Brand penetration as we continue to make progress toward our 25% goal.
Turning to our store growth for the quarter.
We opened 25 new stores relocated 16 stores closed 5 stores resulting in 20 net new stores and we plan to add about 150 net new stores for the full year equating to an anticipated increase in Retail square footage growth of around 2%.
As for MinuteClinic we opened 11 net new clinics in the quarter ending the quarter with 997 clinics across 31 states plus the District of Columbia.
Our revenues increased about 21% versus the same quarter last year and we successfully completed our EPIC electronic health record rollout to all MinuteClinics.
And I think as you know EPIC enables us to interact with major health systems across the U.S.
and it also supports the expansion of services as we can broadly expand access to patients with both minor and chronic conditions.
And then just last month we completed the first anniversary of our Red Oak Sourcing venture with Cardinal Health.
Since its launch Red Oak has established a best-in-class sourcing program with its unparalleled expertise the simplicity of its business structure and combined purchasing volume the venture has enhanced supply chain efficiencies and helped spur innovative purchasing strategies with generic manufacturers.
Folks at Red Oak are focused on the continuity of relationships with suppliers which should serve as a strong foundation for the future.
Now you may have heard on Cardinal's earnings call last week due to the achievement of certain milestones the quarterly payment from Cardinal to CVS Health will increase by $10 million in the third quarter of this year.
This was contemplated in our guidance range and we remain extremely pleased with the results.
So with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</strong> Thank you Larry.
Good morning everyone.
As I typically do I'll begin today by highlighting how our disciplined approach to capital allocation continues to enhance shareholder value.
I'll then follow that with a detailed review of our strong second quarter results as well as an update on our 2015 guidance.
As you know we announced two acquisitions and issued $15 billion in long-term debt just since our last earnings call.
And as a result there are many different numbers circulating in the marketplace.
It is my goal this morning to provide you with some additional clarity with regard to the pending acquisitions in order to help you with your modeling in both the short- and the medium-term.
So as it relates to our capital allocation program let's begin with our dividend payout.
We paid $395 million in dividends in the second quarter and $794 million year-to-date.
Our dividend payout ratio stands at 28.1% over the trailing four quarters after excluding the impact of non-recurring items in both years.
We remain well on track to achieve our target of 35% by 2018.
The $2 billion accelerated share repurchase program that we entered into during the first quarter concluded during Q2.
In addition to the 16.8 million shares we received in January we received 3.1 million shares in May to conclude the agreement.
In total for the first half of the year we repurchased approximately 28.9 million shares for approximately $2.9 billion or $101.33 per share.
For the full year as we have noted we expect to complete $5 billion of share repurchases.
This reflects an increase of approximately 25% versus 2014 despite the $1 billion acquisition related reduction to our share repurchase plans for this year.
So between dividends and share repurchases we have returned more than $3.7 billion to our shareholders in the first half of 2015 alone and we currently expect to return more than $6 billion for the full year.
As I said we recently issued a series of senior notes totaling $15 billion.
The tranches are well laddered the terms range from three years to 30 years and there is no one year in which the maturities are especially large.
And despite rising interest rates over the past couple of months we were able to secure the debt at a favorable blended rate of approximately 3.75%.
So obviously we're very pleased with the placement and as we said previously the net proceeds will be used to fund both our acquisitions and any remaining proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.
This new debt increases our leverage ratio to approximately 3.2 times adjusted debt-to-EBITDA and we are committed to getting back to our target of 2.7 times.
While we have not set a specific timeline for achieving that level our strong cash generation should enable us to do so in a reasonable amount of time.
Moving on as Larry said we have generated more than $2.1 billion of free cash in the first six months of the year.
We continue to expect to produce free cash of between $5.9 billion and $6.2 billion this year excluding the impact of acquisition-related costs.
Now turning to the income statement.
Let me note again that we did incur some acquisition related costs throughout the quarter.
In a few areas where these costs were incurred I will quantify their impact on EPS.
They are mainly within the Corporate Segment and the interest expense line.
So adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding acquisition related costs came in at $1.22 per share $0.02 above our guidance range and up 7.7% over LY.
We incurred approximately $0.03 of deal related transaction and financing costs within the quarter.
GAAP diluted EPS was $1.12 per share.
The Retail Segment posted profit above the high-end of expectations.
The Corporate Segment's expenses came in better than expected and the PBM Segment posted solid numbers within our expectations.
Much of the outperformance throughout the quarter was driven by lower than expected intercompany profit eliminations due to the mix of our business as well as a favorable tax rate.
So with that let me quickly walk you down the P&amp;L.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the second quarter increased 7.4% to $37.2 billion.
In the PBM Segment revenues increased 11.9% to $24.4 billion.
This increase was driven largely by growth of specialty pharmacy as well as an increase in pharmacy network claims.
In addition to inflation the growth in specialty was driven by increased claims due to new products new clients and the impact of Specialty Connect.
Partially offsetting this growth was an increase in our generic dispensing rate which grew approximately 150 basis points versus the same quarter of LY to 83.9%.
In our Retail business revenues increased 2.2% in the quarter to $17.2 billion just above the high-end of our guidance.
This growth was driven primarily by solid pharmacy same-store sales and healthy script growth despite the transition of Specialty revenues into the PBM.
Retail's generic dispensing rate also increased by approximately 150 basis points to 85% which as you know dampens revenue growth.
We saw strength in the top line at Retail versus our guidance due primarily to the mix of pharmacy scripts.
Turning to gross margin.
We reported 17.2% for the consolidated company in the quarter a contraction of approximately 105 basis points compared to Q2 of 2014 but also in line with our expectations.
In addition to each segment's performance the decline is due in part to a mix shift in our business as our lower margin PBM business continues to grow faster than our Retail business.
Keep in mind that margins in last year's second quarter benefited from the finalization of California's Medicaid reimbursement rates and this intensifies the year-over-year decline.
Recall that the finalization of these rates benefited Retail gross margin by $53 million and PBM gross margins by $16 million in the second quarter of LY.
Within the PBM Segment gross margin declined 40 basis points from Q2 of 2014 to 5.1%.
This is driven by the tough comparison with last year's second quarter due to the finalization of California's Medicaid rates as well as ongoing price compression.
Those factors were partially offset by the improvement in GDR as well as favorable purchasing and rebate economics.
Despite decline in gross margin rate gross profit dollars were up 3.8%.
Gross margin in the Retail Segment was 30.9% down approximately 55 basis points from LY.
This was driven by the tough comparison with last year's second quarter due again to the finalization of California's Medicaid rates the continued pressure on pharmacy reimbursement rates and the continuing mix shift towards pharmacy.
This margin pressure was partially offset by a number of positive factors including the increase in GDR favorable pharmacy purchasing economics the benefit from the front store margin rate for the tobacco exit and changes in the mix of front end sales.
And while gross margin rate was down profit dollars did increase slightly in the quarter despite the impact from the tobacco exit.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenues improved by approximately 75 basis points from Q2 of 2014 to 11.1%.
The PBM Segment SG&amp;A rate improved by approximately 20 basis points to 1.2% with growth in operating expense dollars in line with our expectations.
As reported operating expenses as a percent of sales in the Retail Segment improved by approximately 20 basis points to 21.1%.
This improvement occurred despite the reduction in Retail sales related to our decision to exit the tobacco category as well as the impact of Specialty Connect which as you know shifts sales from our Retail Segment into the PBM Segment.
On a comparable basis our sales leverage at Retail actually improved approximately 60 basis points.
Within the Corporate Segment expenses grew 4.6% to $215 billion driven by the acquisition-related transaction costs that were incurred throughout the quarter.
These acquisition-related costs were approximately $0.01 dilutive to earnings per share.
Excluding these costs corporate expenses were better than expected improving year-over-year.
So with that adding it all up operating margin for the total enterprise declined approximately 30 basis points in the quarter to 6.1%.
Operating margin in the PBM declined approximately 15 basis points to 3.8% while operating margin at Retail declined approximately 35 basis points to 9.7%.
As Larry noted Retail operating profit decreased 1.4% in the quarter and was better than our expectations.
On a comparable basis excluding the California Medicaid impact from last year's results as well as tobacco Retail operating profit growth would have been approximately 490 basis points higher increasing approximately 3.5%.
PBM operating profit increased 7.1% in line with expectations.
On a comparable basis again excluding the California Medicaid impact from last year's results operating profit in the PBM would've been approximately 200 basis points higher increasing more than 9%.
Now going below the line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter increased approximately $8 million from LY to $166 million again due primarily to the acquisition-related financing costs that were incurred throughout the quarter.
These costs were associated with the bridge loan facility that we entered into in connection with the Omnicare transaction.
In total we paid approximately $52 million in fees which were capitalized and amortized as interest expense over the period the bridge facility was outstanding.
The facility expired in July when we issued $15 billion of senior notes.
As a result we recorded amortization of the bridge loan fees of $36 million during the second quarter and the remaining amount will be recorded in the third quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 39.3% slightly lower than expected.
The tax rate drove less than $0.01 of the EPS beat.
Our weighted average share count was 1.1 billion shares again in line with expectations.
So with that now let me update you on our guidance.
I'll provide the highlights as well as some additional clarity on the impact of the pending acquisitions.
You can find the additional details of our guidance in the slide presentation that we posted on our website earlier this morning.
Given our outperformance in the second quarter and reduction in the share repurchases planned for this year we are narrowing our range for 2015 adjusted earnings per share by raising the bottom of the range by $0.03 and bringing the top end down by $0.01.
So we now expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share in 2015 in the range of $5.11 to $5.18 per share excluding any acquisition-related transaction and financing costs.
This guidance reflects strong year-over-year growth of 13.75% to 15.25% again after removing the impact in 2014 related to the loss on the early extinguishment of debt.
As Larry said for modeling purposes we assume that the Omnicare acquisition closes near the end of 2015.
The timing of the close of the Target transaction is a bit more uncertain as it could fall into 2015 or into 2016.
With that as context there are a couple of things to keep in mind regarding this guidance.
First it includes the impact of the $1 billion reduction in share buybacks this year.
Second it excludes any operating results generated by Omnicare or the Target assets as well as any integration costs that may be incurred.
And finally it also excludes any deal related transaction and financing costs.
Obviously there are several moving parts that I want to quickly walk you through so it might be helpful to review slide number 29 from the slide deck that we posted on our website early this morning which provides a helpful summary of all the puts and takes.
Currently we have recorded approximately $0.01 in transaction costs and we expect to incur another $0.03 to $0.05 this year depending on whether on which year the Target acquisition falls into.
We've also incurred about $0.02 in financing costs associated with the bridge facility and we are forecasting another $0.13 of net interest expense related to the bridge as well as the placement of the senior notes last month.
So in total this guidance excludes $0.19 to $0.21 in deal related transaction and financing costs.
My intention with the pending acquisitions is to provide guidance that includes those businesses at some point after each deal closes once we've had the opportunity to better forecast their underlying business performance.
So our core business is performing well and this revised guidance reflects just that.
All-in GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $4.64 to $4.71 a share.
Net revenue growth is expected to be a bit stronger in both the PBM and Retail Segments.
As a result consolidated net revenue growth is now expected to be 7.5% to 8.5%.
We expect PBM revenue growth of 11.5% to 12.5% 25 basis points higher than our prior guidance.
This revised guidance reflects our expectation for stronger network volumes so we're also increasing our adjusted claims expectation to a range of 1.15 billion claims to 1.16 billion claims.
Additionally we have increased our expectations in the Retail Segment and now expect revenue growth of 2.5% to 3.25% year-over-year.
This guidance mainly reflects our revised expectations for a slightly lower generic dispensing rate for the full year due to some timing shifts in the generic marketplace.
Given PBM performance to-date and higher volumes we are also narrowing an increasing guidance for operating profit growth in our PBM Segment.
We now expect PBM operating profit to increase 10% to 12% year-over-year an increase of 225 basis points on the low-end and 125 basis points on the top.
And given that the increase in Retail revenue outlook is due largely to fewer generics than expected we're trimming our operating profit growth expectations to a range of 4.25% to 5.5%.
And as I said before we continue to expect to produce free cash of between $5.9 billion to $6.2 billion this year excluding the impact of acquisition-related costs.
So with that let me provide guidance for the third quarter.
We expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.27 to $1.30 per share in the third quarter reflecting year-over-year growth of 10.5% to 13.5% after removing the impact in Q3 of 2014 related to the loss on early extinguishment of debt.
As with the full year this excludes all deal related costs.
GAAP diluted EPS from continued ops is expected to be in the range of $1.13 per share to $1.16 per share within the third quarter.
Within the Retail Segment we expect revenues to increase 2.75% to 4.25% versus the third quarter of LY.
Adjusted script comps are expected to increase in the range of 4.75% to 5.75% while we expect total same-store sales to be up 1% to 2.5%.
On September 3 we'll mark the anniversary of our exit from tobacco so we'll see a negative impact on front store comps during the first two months of the quarter.
So sequentially revenue growth is expected to improve.
We expect a negative impact on front store comps in the third quarter to be approximately 500 basis points.
In the PBM we expect third quarter revenue growth of between 9% and 10.25% driven by continued strong growth in specialty and network volumes.
We expect retail operating profit to increase 4% to 6% and PBM operating profit to increase 2% to 6% within the third quarter.
During the course of the year we have been highlighting several timing factors that affect the cadence of profit delivery throughout this year.
Factors that are expected to impact the cadence the most include the timing of break open of generics our tobacco exit and the investments we made in the PBM's welcome season.
And while we delivered a very strong first half quite frankly above our own expectations the cadence of profit growth is still expected to be back half weighted.
So all things considered we continue to expect a strong back half of the year and especially the fourth quarter.
So in closing I'll leave you with four key thoughts.
First we post a very strong growth year-to-date.
Second our 2015 outlook for each business and enterprise overall is strong and we continue to benefit from the unique solutions we are delivering in the marketplace.
Third is our pending acquisitions supplement our base businesses and set us up nicely for continued strong growth well beyond 2015.
And finally we expect to continue to generate significant free cash and we are committed to using these assets to maximize the value return to our shareholders through a disciplined approach to capital allocation.
And with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks Dave.
Well I think you can hear that we're certainly pleased with our continued strong performance in the second quarter the outlook that we have for the rest of the year and certainly the opportunities the announced acquisitions will present for future growth.
And with that let's go ahead and open it up for your questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Dave thank you for all the detail.
Obviously another great PBM selling season.
Larry if you or Jon can maybe just talk about two things around the selling season.
One Larry I think you characterized it as being fairly typical from what you've seen over the last few years but you continued to win a lot of business.
Can you talk about maybe what helped you to win this year? And then secondly just help us to understand how do we think about this setup going into 2016 as it pertains to plan design? Are we seeing more people adopt your formulary? Are we seeing more people adopt specialty? Like how do we think about it as we're thinking about how that sets up for 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Lisa I'll take the first question and I'll ask Jon to comment in more specifics around your second question.
But Lisa I think the success that we're continuing to see it really reflects our integrated model.
And I think as we've talked in the past you've got to be right on price you've got to be right on service but once we get past that we've got an awful lot of differentiation that is resonating for clients across all the sectors.
And I mentioned in our prepared remarks that the success this particular selling season has been more skewed with the Health Plans Segment.
The Health Plans probably represent around 80% of the gross business wins of the $12 billion and obviously we're pleased with those results.
And I'll ask Jon to take a deeper dive in terms of more specifics.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Yeah.
So Lisa if  let me focus and start with Health Plans.
They have multiple lines of business.
They have commercial they have Medicare they have managed Medicaid and exchanges and we see different priorities based on the Health Plans business makeup of those four lines of business.
And if you start with Health Plans want to be competitive in the marketplace they want competitive pricing and high levels of service.
And clearly these are areas that we've consistently delivered in over the last several years.
We've been predictable consistent and stable and this is an important area as Health Plan clients evaluate their options in the market.
Most health plans' biggest challenge is in the government space and we bring a lot of expertise in both Medicaid and Medicare and we provide advisory and consultative services that help them manage and build competitive government programs.
So as an example we provide programs to support their Star measures and we also help them design their formularies and benefit designs for Medicare.
The other top priority for Health Plans in specialty and we have the most comprehensive suite of solutions to help managers spend and their specialty members across both the pharmacy and medical benefit.
And we've talked in the past about Specialty Connect Coram Novologix Accordant and MinuteClinic.
And then we also offer many robust clinical programs that integrate into their clinical strategies and help overall medical costs.
So we're able to provide value beyond just pharmacy cost management.
We've also been very successful in the employer and state government space and these clients have embraced our integrated model and all the value we're able to bring them and their members.
So we continue to be successful in the market and win new business because of the value and support we're able to bring clients and their members.
If we talk about what are we seeing from a plan design maybe I'll focus on the new business wins that we're bringing on this year.
And if we start with the employers that are coming onboard 1/2016 we're seeing very high adoption of our programs such as Maintenance Choice exclusive specialty with Specialty Connect formulary program with exclusions and we're also seeing very strong adoption of our integrated offerings as well as our cost management solutions.
Health Plans which Larry mentioned is about 80% of our gross wins.
We see a very different dynamic across those four lines of business that I mentioned.
For Medicare we see very strong alignment with our Med D formulary and preferred network options.
For managed Medicaid we see adoption of narrow networks.
For commercial plans they pretty much bring them over as is because they need to work with their downstream clients or state insurance commission.
So there is more of a lag but we do see interest in Maintenance Choice formulary narrowing of their specialty providers and in some cases narrowing their networks but it usually takes a year or two to implement.
And for exchanges we see adoption of our formulary and strong interest in network solutions.
So with double-digit trend combined with the need to be competitive in the B2C lines of business for Health Plans we expect to see high levels of interest and adoption for our programs across our book of business.
Great.
Thank you so much for all the details Jon.
I appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Lisa.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thanks Lisa.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question Yeah hey guys.
Lisa just kind of took the one I was going to but I wanted to talk about Target.
And this is really for Jon.
When you think of bringing those pharmacies in and how it works with the PBM side of the business can you talk us through kind of your thought process and what that does for you as maybe you enter the 2017 selling season? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Scott it's Larry.
I think as we talked when we announced the Target acquisition obviously it expands our reach in new geographies largely west of the Mississippi certainly the Pacific Northwest.
So I think from a PBM point of view where we did not have good geographic representation I think that certainly goes a long way to fill that void.
And at the same time it opens up another channel for consumers and it opens up the different ways in which we can offer our unique and integrated clinical programs whether it's Pharmacy Advisor or Scott you've heard us talk about the things that we've done that we've been able to demonstrate in improving access we're also able to reduce overall costs.
So we think it becomes an important solution to some of the challenges that our healthcare system faces today around access quality and cost.
And then maybe as a follow up.
Larry thanks for that.
The intercompany eliminations I think Dave you talked about as being one of the reasons that drove the outperformance it seemed like the revenue was really strong on that line but the profitability isn't.
And obviously one of the successes of CVS is the integrated model.
How are we supposed to think about the intercompany eliminations on the profit side being maybe a little bit less health profits? Is this a problem or is this just kind of a cadence of the business? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> This is Dave.
It's just the cadence of the business.
This is just the  we forecast that on a quarterly basis and quite frankly just the mix of scripts and how they flow through the PBM and how they flowed through Retail was just off just a tick so there's no underlying concern there.
No worries.
Should we key more into the revenue line given the changes that have taken place especially with the specialty going over to the PBM? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think you kind of actually have to look at both because just with inflation you can get a false positive or negative based on we could have share capture that's disproportionate but with the generic influx or generic cadence it could affect that line a bit.
So I'd look at both quite frankly.
All right.
Perfect.
Thanks guys and congratulations on all the wins.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Scott.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with...
I guess sticking with that theme just going back to the net new number obviously a pretty big season even if we account for the Coventry contribution.
I'm just curious Larry or Dave any more insight you can share with where the business is coming from? I guess if we think about are these clients  it sounds like more in the Health Plans side are the clients switching from other PBMs or you're seeing any other change in behavior maybe more folks carving out the pharmacy benefit? Just trying to get a sense of where all the net new is coming from for you guys? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Bob it's Larry.
I mean you're right.
We said about 80% of the gross wins coming out of the Health Plans segment.
The vast majority of that is clients switching PBM.
I think Jon touched on some of the key elements earlier that when you look at the makeup of the Health Plan business and you think about commercial Medicare Medicaid exchange products we can bring solutions in a very differentiated way for each of those segments within the Health Plan.
I think that's  I think once again it's the model resonating with those clients in terms of we can satisfy differentiated needs within that particular Health Plans book of business.
I guess as my quick follow up then on the PBM if I look at the profit from this quarter up 9% Dave you mentioned in your remarks that you guys are guiding for gross profit growth in the 2% to 6% range I believe for 3Q.
Just curious what's driving that slowdown anything that was already kind of thought of in guidance as far as the cadence of profit growth from quarter-to-quarter? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Really there's a couple of things that happened.
As you know that our profits in the PBM have typically been a little bumpy quarter-over-quarter based on how we performed in Medicare so you see the timing shift a bit based on where we hit the reinsurance levels number one and that's kind of common and it's hard to predict number one.
Number two is we ramp into the back half of this year.
We're overlapping the introduction of Hep C and overlapping the rebate performance in that category and other categories within specialty.
Okay got it.
Thanks so much.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right Bob.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah hi.
Good morning guys.
So Larry your success in the selling season obviously doesn't go unnoticed.
I mean have you seen any behavioral changes this season from competition that might be worth mentioning at all? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ed there's nothing that is top of mind when you ask that question.
I mean as we've talked for the last couple of years the marketplace remains competitive.
And as I just mentioned in response to Lisa's question you've got to be right on price and service as the ticket to the game.
And then I think our differentiated model comes into play in a very healthy way after that.
All right.
And maybe just as a quick follow up here you've been fairly active on the M&amp;A front recently.
Larry could you maybe take a step back and kind of assess sort of like where you are today post sort of Omnicare and Target relative to really think relative to where you want to be I guess longer term in the evolving landscape? Are there still gaps or opportunities to sort of think about? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Ed I think that as we talked about the strategy and again Nancy touched on Analyst Day and we'll talk more about this in December but we think that we have a unique opportunity with healthcare becoming more consumer directed.
And you think about the fact that we've got broad capabilities today whether you're talking about Retail PBM Specialty infusion medical claims management MinuteClinic and soon long-term care that we can manage the consumer the patient through the continuum of their healthcare lifecycle if you will.
So I think we feel pretty good about where we are today and obviously we'll look to continue to add to that list of ways in which we can serve the patient and connect the dots so to speak.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
I'm curious on the reimbursement rate environment on the Pharmacy side of the business.
What trends you're seeing there? And as we look forward what your outlook is on gross margin on the Retail side? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Eric this is Dave.
Maybe I'll just talk about it a bit.
I think there's a couple of things that are occurring.
I think not so much if you look at gross margin.
As I said in my prepared remarks there's been a little bit of a shift in the  I'll say the availability of generic drugs into the marketplace that are in a break open status.
And so that has influenced a bit our gross margin and the gross margin performance both the first half of the year and more importantly the back half of the year.
I do think if you look at the reimbursement trends in the marketplace as we have said many times there continues to be reimbursement pressure in the marketplace.
We don't see that abating and it continues to occur and I think we expect that to continue to occur not only this year but as we look out into the future.
And if you look at our  if you step back a second and you look at our five-year targets that we've established we've always talked about the fact that revenue is going to grow faster than operating profit implying margin compression and part of that is due to the reimbursement intensity in the marketplace.
And we think that's going to continue.
Good.
And if I could have just one follow up you've worked through the exit from tobacco pretty effectively to continue to do what you're doing with the profits in that business with less sales.
I'm curious if there's any plans as we move forward incrementally for what to do with that space or if there's anything else in the front end that you're aspiring to move towards as you move away from that or as you moved away from that? Sure.
This is Helena.
And you know  I think and you'll hear us talk more about it at Analyst Day but we've been really focused on becoming the leading health and beauty destination.
I think when we made that tobacco announcement it really forced us to step back and say what do we want to be for the consumer? Where do we want to win? And so we've developed a five-part strategy.
The first is around better health made easy and this relates to the healthy food section that Larry talked about.
The second is around elevating beauty and Larry mentioned that as well.
The third is around customer driven personalization.
We have a leading head start obviously with ExtraCare but we see a tremendous opportunity to be even more relevant and targeted in our go-forward strategy.
The fourth of these is around what we call myCVS Health and it's really tailoring our offering for the marketplace we're serving on a local basis.
And so for example if you look at the acquisition of Navarro a year ago we have done a lot to learn from that acquisition.
We've in fact reset 12 stores  CVS stores in Miami around that acquisition and we're very encouraged.
It's certainly too early to share results but very encouraged by what we see as an opportunity with Hispanic customer.
And then the fifth component of it is all around digital innovation.
So I think that the good news is the team really did a great job stepping back and thinking forward to where we want to be how we want to win and if you are able to get into these 275 stores where we've reset them with healthy foods it's a really good example I think of what the future path is for us to get a very different feeling in the front of our store around healthy food and the beauty experience is quite elevated.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
All right.
Thank you.
Good morning Larry and Dave.
So one other question here just on the PBM selling season obviously $12 billion gross win is a pretty monster number.
The WellCare group at their Analyst Meeting back in February they disclosed their PBM spend was exceeding $6 billion and approaching $7 billion.
And then the PBM on the other end of the Coventry book has suggested that Medicare piece is worth about $3 billion.
So just curious whether you share those views or if you have different numbers.
And then also with your comment about the Health Plans being roughly 80% or over 80% of the total just curious if you isolate just your results in the commercial market just want to confirm whether or not your wins were net positive for 2016? Thanks.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Steve maybe I'll start here.
We're not at liberty to talk about revenue per client.
So I can't really confirm that at this point in time.
But obviously the bulk of our wins as we cycle into 2016 are within the Health Plans Segment and our products and services continue to resonate there.
On the commercial side I guess you're asking from a commercial standpoint if we have net wins versus net losses.
Correct.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Is that the question? CVS/caremark</span></strong> Is that in the employer segment Steve you're talking about? Yeah just employer.
Correct.
Yes.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Yeah it's still early because we still are 60% through the renewal season.
So we'll talk about that in December Analyst Day and talk about the makeup of our wins and losses and you'll be able to net it out at that point.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> As we stand here today  just to be clear as we stand here today we are in a net win position within the employer/commercial market.
Okay.
One other real quick one just the 2016 formulary is obviously just only announced and curious if you do go back several years ago it did seem that formulary change used to be viewed maybe with some mixed emotions by clients maybe even a bit of negativity.
But just curious now do you think clients are more receptive to these formulary exclusions today versus historically because perhaps clients are more conscious of the savings potential? Just kind of curious to get your thoughts on that because now it seems like these are viewed more positively than negatively versus history.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Steve I think you're absolutely right and keep in mind that we were first to market with the formulary strategy and you're right it was met with the mixed beliefs that you acknowledged.
I think that over the past four years we've demonstrated to clients and their members that not only is it a cost savings opportunity but at the same time equally if not more important we can manage their members in a seamless fashion.
And none of this is disruptive to the continuity of care.
So I think it is becoming it is getting more focused and as there becomes more opportunities in the specialty space that just adds to the dialogue.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah good morning guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
And Larry I wanted to talk a little bit more about Retail Pharmacy consolidation.
You've seen managed care consolidate up around the industry pretty quick and the PBM industry is consolidated up now basically into three large vendors.
You guys made an interesting move with the Target transaction.
I just I wanted to ask what you think is the  what do you think is the capacity for further Retail Pharmacy consolidation? Can the market consolidate to a point where you get some type of competitive balance for the retailers versus the payers? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> George when you look at the Retail Pharmacy landscape keep in mind there continues to be more than 60 000 pharmacies operating across the country and that number has not changed in a significant way over the last couple of years.
To include the role that the independents play and the independents continue to grow.
So I don't  I think for us the Target acquisition as we talked earlier on the question it came an exciting opportunity to increase our geographic presence in a very very capital efficient way and we've got  we're excited about the opportunities.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess maybe then a quick follow up would just be do you expect more opportunities like Target to present themselves? And then given what you guys know if you look at the companies that compete in the pharmacy space outside of the big retail pharmacies given that Target was losing money can you imagine that any of these guys are making much money in pharmacy? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> George this is Dave.
It's kind of hard to speculate on that.
I would just say that our focus first and foremost is to execute against the pending acquisitions rollout our products and services in a way that puts our clinical programs into the hands of more members as they shop this new and exciting channel.
And to work as Larry said before to reduce cost to improve access and to improve the health outcomes of the patients that we serve and that continues to be our focus right now.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from Robert Willoughby with Bank of America.
Please proceed with your question.
A specific one for Jon we heard from a competitor last night who pointed to continuing opportunities in open specialty pharmacy networks but with your $12 billion in gross PBM wins have you noticed any interest in narrowing the specialty pharmacy networks in particular? CVS/caremark</span></strong> Well when you look at the employer wins most of the employers actually come with us exclusively for specialty.
And with health plans they typically have multiple vendors but we are seeing a move even for health plans to narrow it from say three or four or five vendors down to somewhat less.
And they get better pricing and better clinical program execution.
And so we do business with many health plans where we're not the PBM and standalone specialty and that business for us continues to grow and we'll continue to pursue it.
Okay.
And just as it relates to the Cardinal relationship what opportunities do you see to expand the areas in which you're working? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Bob it's Larry.
As I mentioned I think the team has done an awful lot of work in a pretty short period of time in the first year and certainly we're always looking to work in terms of how we can create additional value for the business and our customers.
And I don't know that there is anything on the horizon that we can talk about right now but certainly I think the Red Oak team will have an ongoing focus in terms of how they can create additional value.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Charles Rhyee with Cowen.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Thanks guys.
Maybe one just quick clarification from Dave.
In the guidance just to be clear you're excluding the financing costs but we are including just the incremental expense from the new issuance on the debt right? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> No I'm excluding both.
Okay.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> I'm excluding both the bridge facility cost as well as the incremental debt that we took on in relation to financing the acquisitions.
Okay.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Slide 29 gives that nice little I'll say walk forward all of those components.
Okay.
All right great.
That's it.
Thanks guys.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Take care.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you so much for taking the question.
Dave this is a question that I continue to get and it would be helpful if you could maybe give us a little bit more color in terms of how we should be thinking about a reasonable amount of time for you to get back to 2.7 times.
Should we be thinking of that as sort of a two-year to three-year timeframe or should we potentially be thinking about three years to five years? Thank you.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Great.
That's a great question.
I have not specified that timeline specifically and unfortunately I'm not going to do that today.
I do expect that  obviously we're at 3.2 times.
Our objective obviously is to get to 2.7 times and we're going to do that in a reasonable modest fashion to get us back down into that ZIP code.
But I haven't set a specific timeline and I don't really expect to do so.
I will update the market as we continue to progress on this and make sure that there is clarity from that perspective on where we stand.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
I had to try.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thank you.
Good job.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Sure.
So two things on the selling season.
Number one can you tell how much the ongoing consolidation in the PBM space may have helped you this selling season with the health plans and if not does that lie in front of us for next year? And then secondly if you look at the first year margin right on the $11 billion and how that would compare to prior years is it very similar or just because of the magnitude of some of these plans maybe it's a bit lower than prior years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah John it's Larry.
Let me take the first part and then I'll ask Dave to comment on the second question in there.
But John I think as you look at the timing of the selling season I think this particular 2016 selling season was really unaffected by some of the M&amp;A activity that occurred.
So I think that opportunity is in front of us as we soon  well in some respects we've already begun on 2017 when you think about some of the health plan clients out there.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> And then as it relates to I guess the profitability or the margin of those new clients.
John as typical new clients when they come on as a new PBM book of business they come on a very thin margin and the objective that we have is over time is really twofold is to sell-in our programs and products that drive additional performance within the PBM but probably as importantly work to drive adherence programs into one of our dispensing channels to ultimately improve the outcomes of the patients and members that we serve.
And so you'll see them come on thin you'll see them grow over time and we expect that trend to continue as we cycle into this selling season as we implement that into 2016.
All right.
And then secondly right if you look at pharmacy traffic versus front end right so pharmacy obviously growing a bit faster and I know you're doing things on the merchandising and marketing side but when you think about conversion of pharmacy customers to front end and maybe even on that same trip is there opportunity there whether it's I don't know if it's operational or something else to on that trip convert some more of the pharmacy traffic to front end business or not really right because of drive-through and other factors? Yeah I think there always is.
I mean look when I said before that we're really focused on health and beauty health is critical because when the consumer thinks about us she's really thinking about all her healthcare needs and so in particular we look at people who are chronic customers and think about all the ways that we can serve them in our stores.
For example the work that we're doing on Store Brands is really important to people who have a lot of health issues and are worried about how to maintain good health and save money with high-quality products.
So I think a big part of our focus and effort is on how to make the front store an extension of the pharmacy experience and then obviously the outcome of that is driving higher sales as it relates to serving those patients.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thanks John.
All right we'll take two more questions.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Just wanted to get a little update on your thoughts on the generic wave into 2016? We've now had some of the wildcards on multi-source break opens resolved and also if you could give us a little update on what you're seeing on generic cost inflation? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> Well maybe I'll talk a bit about the availability of generics.
It's been a little lighter than we thought and we're forecasting them to be a little lighter going forward over the next several periods and that's really driven by the availability of break open generics where there's multiple suppliers in the marketplace which  as you know when there's multiple suppliers in the marketplace that allows us to reduce our cost of goods sold.
And we see that cycling both the back half of this year and potentially to 2016.
We'll update you a lot more on Analyst Day as we'll have a better picture of what 2016 looks like.
As far as generic inflation I think it's  the overall marketplace continues from a generic perspective to be deflationary in totality.
That has been true throughout the year.
We expect that to be true as we forecast out the balance of this year.
I think just in general generic inflation has been modest this year as compared to I'll say last year at this point in time.
So you're saying on the availability of break open it's a little softer now and you're going to cycle out of that and then a better outlook into 2016? Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> I don't know about 2016.
It's unclear at this point in time how 2016 shapes up in the sense of how those new generics come into the market.
So we'll have more to say about that when we get to Analyst Day because we'll have a better view of the cadence of that.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Financial Officer Controller &amp; Chief Accounting Officer</span></strong> You're welcome.
Take care.
The next question comes from David Larsen with Leerink Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys congratulations on a good quarter.
Can you please talk about your relationship with Aetna and a potential Humana transaction and sort of the incremental value you might be able to bring to the combined enterprise? And then just any thoughts on Humana's relationship with Walmart and their low price PDP plan? Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> David it's Larry.
We certainly can't talk about Humana's relationship with Walmart.
Okay? That would be a question for them.
But to your first question I think as everyone is aware we have a 12-year strategic agreement with Aetna it runs through December of 2022.
And Aetna has termination rights beginning in January of 2020 as has been disclosed.
And we've got a very strong working relationship with Aetna.
We work closely we'll continue to work closely and I think we've brought value to their business and their clients in a very differentiated way and I think the fact that we have a singular focus on pharmacy and for many of the reasons that we've been talking about on the call the innovation that we bring the scale that we have as the largest purchaser of generics the integrated model that brings solutions to access quality and outcomes and the broad capabilities that we have I think that it puts us in a very very good position.
I think there is the possibility that folks could be thinking about in-sourcing their PBM but I think when you consider all of those factors I think it creates a suboptimal situation for them.
Would you be able to create or maintain a unique network in that the Walmart PDP remains in place? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well if you look at the makeup of the PBM network today Walmart is an important provider in that space.
So I wouldn't see any barrier to the role that Walmart plays as an important pharmacy provider.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks everyone.
And listen I know this was a rather lengthy call today obviously we had a lot to talk about there are  as Dave outlined there are a lot of moving parts and we've done our very best on those slides to show you the variables that are in play.
And obviously if you have any follow up questions you can contact Nancy.
So thanks again everybody.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a great day.
Greetings and welcome to the CVS Health Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Nancy Christal Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Thank you.
You may begin.
Thanks Christine.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I'm here this morning with Larry Merlo President and CEO; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO.
Jon Roberts President of CVS/caremark; and Helena Foulkes President of CVS/pharmacy are also with us today and will participate in the question-and-answer session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow-up so we can provide more people with the chance to ask their questions.
I have one important reminder today.
Our Annual Analyst and Investor Day is scheduled for the morning of Wednesday December 16 in New York City.
At that time you'll have the opportunity to hear from several members of our senior management team who'll provide detailed 2016 guidance as well as a comprehensive update on our strategies for growth.
If anyone has signed up and is no longer planning to attend we'd greatly appreciate it if you could let us know as soon as possible so that we can include others who would like to attend given our limited seating.
Keep in mind that our Analyst Day will be webcast to provide access to anyone who is unable to be there in person.
If you have any questions about this event please contact me.
We look forward to seeing many of you there.
This morning we posted a slide presentation on our website which I think you will find helpful.
This slide summarizes the information in our prepared remarks as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
Later this afternoon we'll be filing our Form 10-Q and it will also be available on our website at that time.
Please note that during today's presentation we'll make forward-looking statements within the meanings of the federal securities laws.
By their nature all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons as described in our SEC filings including the risk factor section and cautionary statement disclosures in those filings.
During this call we'll use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our company's performance including free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the definitions of these non-GAAP items as well as reconciliations to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Well thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
I'm very pleased with the solid third quarter results we posted today.
Revenues increased 10.3% while adjusted earnings per share increased 12.5% to $1.29 coming in at the higher end of our guidance range.
And adjusted EPS excludes any acquisition-related items consistent with how we provided guidance.
And Dave will cover how you should be modeling our adjusted EPS for the rest of the year now that the Omnicare acquisition has closed.
For those of you who may not be aware I'm pleased to announce that Rocky Kraft previously CFO of Omnicare is now the President of our Long-Term Care Pharmacy group and you'll have an opportunity to hear from Rocky at our Analyst Day.
In the third quarter excluding transaction and integration costs operating profit in the Retail Long-Term Care business increased 8.4% while operating profit in the Pharmacy Services Segment increased 7%.
Now those numbers do include Omnicare's operating results as of August 18.
On an underlying basis versus our guidance excluding the acquisition Retail operating profit growth was in line with expectations while the PBM was just above our guidance range.
We generated approximately $1.3 billion of free cash during the quarter $3.4 billion year-to-date enabling us to continue to return significant value to our shareholders.
Now given our solid performance this quarter and the closing of the Omnicare transaction we are narrowing our guidance range by raising the lower end.
We currently expect to achieve adjusted EPS for 2015 of $5.14 to $5.18.
And this guidance includes the Omnicare operations and the debt we issued in July.
It excludes acquisition-related bridge financing transaction and integration costs.
And Dave will provide more detail during his financial review.
Before providing a business update acknowledging the complexities in modeling our business as a result of two acquisitions we want to provide you with some early clarity for 2016.
We outlined it in this morning's press release and I'm going to turn it over to Dave to cover the details.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
As you know there are a lot of moving parts in our business especially with the recent debt financing the timing of the Omnicare acquisition and the pending acquisition of Target pharmacies.
So this morning I'm going to try to help you model the company and level-set our expectations for next year starting with a wider-than-normal EPS range.
We'll provide detailed guidance as usual on Analyst Day once our comprehensive plan is finalized.
Back in December of 2013 we provided our five-year financial targets which included many assumptions.
We said that we expect our top-line to grow faster than our operating profit suggesting continued margin compression.
And we said that our growth strategy is to focus on winning lives and gaining share across the enterprise to offset those pressures and that we assumed that we would continue to gain share in our core business and make value-enhancing acquisitions to accomplish these targets.
We also said that we would employ a disciplined approach to capital allocation that would further enhance our EPS growth rate and we reiterated those expectations at our last Analyst Day.
And none of that has changed.
From our jump-off point of $3.96 in 2013 we said that we would target adjusted EPS to grow 10% to 14% on average from 2013 through 2018.
Today we are providing a preliminary outlook for 2016 in the range of $5.68 to $5.88 reflecting growth in adjusted EPS of approximately 10% to 14% in 2016 again right in line with our five-year compounded annual growth rate target using the $5.16 midpoint of our 2015 guidance range.
Now if you look at our cumulative performance from our jump-off point in 2013 we are tracking to the higher end of our targets with a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 13% to 14% from 2013 through 2016.
Our preliminary outlook for 2016 assumes the completion of the Target pharmacy acquisition near the end of 2015 and excludes any integration and transaction costs associated with both the Omnicare and Target acquisitions again consistent with our prior comments.
Our preliminary outlook also assumes that we complete $4 billion in share repurchases in 2016.
We can't provide all the usual guidance details today since we haven't finalized our comprehensive 2016 plan but let me highlight some of the key factors to keep in mind as you begin to review your models.
The Omnicare business which we acquired in mid-August is split across our segments.
As noted in our press release today the long-term care operations commercialization services supply chain solutions and patient support services within Omnicare are included in our newly-named Retail Long-Term Care Segment.
And Omnicare specialty business is included in the Pharmacy Services Segment.
While it is early we remain very optimistic about Omnicare.
Consistent with our previously-stated expectations we expect Omnicare to be approximately $0.20 accretive to our earnings per share in 2016 excluding any transaction and integration costs.
Additionally for modeling purposes we are assuming the acquisition of Target pharmacies and clinics closes near the end of this year.
And again as previously stated we expect the acquisition of Target pharmacies and clinics to be approximately $0.06 dilutive to adjusted earnings per share in 2016.
Those expectations are included in our preliminary outlook for next year.
As laid out in the slides that we posted on our website when we announced the deal this includes accretion from operating the pharmacies and clinics which will be more than offset by the impact of the previously-announced reduction in 2015 share repurchases as well as financing costs.
And once again it excludes any transaction and integration costs.
Overall we expect the total enterprise to deliver operating profit growth in the mid-to-high single digits in 2016.
Recall that we are focused on an integrated enterprise strategy to drive long-term growth and we believe our channel-agnostic approach and our enhanced ability with Omnicare to both maintain and grow our share across the entire continuum of care will enable us to continue to drive enterprise growth.
We expect the Retail Long-Term Care Segment to deliver growth and operating profit in the mid-single digits in 2016.
In Retail we continue to grow and gain share.
At the same time we continue to be faced with margin compression which comes from two main sources.
One is the mix shift of our business toward lower-margin lines of business mainly Medicare and Medicaid.
And the other is the ongoing reimbursement pressure from payers.
Note that while reimbursement pressure continues it is not accelerated and the typical offsets across our business do ebb and flow over time.
As for the PBM segment we expect to deliver growth in operating profit in the high-single to low-double digits in 2016 including Omnicare specialty business.
As you know in addition to the usual margin compression we won a significant amount of new business for 2016 and about 80% of our gross new business is in the health plan space.
Typically year one of a contract has fair margins and health plans typically have lower margins than other lines of business because they typically don't adopt all of our unique programs that help drive cost savings for clients right away.
In fact they're sold in over time.
As an example when an employer client they can make a decision to offer Maintenance Choice for its membership with a stroke of a pen the health plan client has to sell these unique offerings throughout their book of business account-by-account.
A good way to think about all this is that reimbursement and pricing pressure is immediate while share gains occur over time.
So overall the Pharmacy Services Segment will also see margin compression in 2016 but continued share gains and operating profit growth.
So you need to keep all these factors in mind as you firm up your models for next year.
We have long believed that we would need to offset ongoing margin pressures by winning lives gaining an increased share of wallet and growing our enterprise share.
We are pleased to continue to deliver growth at our targeted rates.
We continue to grow and gain share both organically and through acquisitions again in line with our long-term financial targets.
And so with that I'll turn it back over to Larry and I'll come back for the rest of my financial review in a few moments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks Dave.
I think you can see that 2016 is shaping up to be a very good year.
Our long-term outlook remains strong and we remain confident in the multi-year targets that we provided at previous analyst days.
And consistently growing an organization of this size at this very healthy pace is really a testament to the quality of our people and I want to take a minute to thank everyone in the CVS Health family for their contributions and dedication.
So with that let me update you on current developments in the business.
Turning to the PBM and let me start with the 2016 selling season which continues on its healthy trajectory.
Gross wins currently total approximately $13.3 billion with net new business of $11.4 billion.
Now these net new numbers do not include any impact from our individual Med D PDP which I'll touch on shortly.
Today we've completed 80% of our client renewals for 2016 that's consistent with past years and we continue to have a strong retention rate of about 98%.
Our specialty business continues to outpace the market and gain share.
In the third quarter specialty revenues increased 32%.
This was driven by claims growth inflation and the inclusion of Omnicare's complementary specialty business.
As you know we've developed a comprehensive set of programs to effectively manage specialty trend and we'll provide a deep dive on those strategies at our Analyst Day.
Before turning to Retail let me touch briefly on our Med D PDP SilverScript.
As we reported last quarter SilverScript once again qualified in 32 of the 34 regions which enables us to retain the vast majority of auto assignees we currently serve.
And we're well positioned in the 2016 annual enrollment period that is currently underway.
We're offering two plans that have zero dollar deductibles premiums in many states that are lower than prior-year levels and co-pays  low co-pays for several frequently-prescribed drugs.
I'm also pleased to note that SilverScript recently received for the 2016 plan year a four star rating from CMS for delivering value clinical outcomes and customer service.
Turning to our Retail Long-Term Care Segment as Dave mentioned we're excited to now include Omnicare's long-term care business in the segment.
The Omnicare acquisition provides a new pharmacy dispensing channel for us enhancing our ability to provide continuity of care for patients as they transition through the health care system.
The business is performing as we expected.
Our integration work is well underway and we're focused on executing to ensure a seamless transition for clients and patients.
We will integrate the specialty operations into our existing specialty business and include the long-term care pharmacy operations in Rx Crossroads in the newly named Retail/LTC segment.
So overall we expect to complete the vast majority of the Omnicare integration activities by the end of 2016.
As far as the previously announced Target pharmacy acquisition we remain excited as this transaction enables us to reach more patients.
It adds a new retail channel for our unique offerings and it expands convenient options for consumers.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions including necessary regulatory clearance and we expect the closing of the Target transaction to occur near the end of this year.
So we'll certainly keep you posted.
Moving on to results in the Retail business pharmacy same-store prescription volumes increased 4.4% that's on a 30-day equivalent basis and we continued to gain pharmacy share.
Our retail pharmacy market share was 21.7% in Q3 again on a 30-day equivalent basis and that's up about 55 basis points versus the same quarter a year ago.
Pharmacy same-store sales increased 4.6% and were negatively impacted by about 450 basis points due to recent generic introductions.
During the quarter we launched ScriptSync.
That's a new pharmacy service that aligns eligible maintenance prescriptions to be ready together for pickup at the same time.
This makes it easier and more convenient for patients to take their medications as prescribed.
And since its launch more than 400 000 patients have signed up for ScriptSync greatly surpassing our enrollment projections.
We will also be rolling this out to our mail-order customers and we expect this enterprise program to contribute to significant improvements in medication adherence while providing strong levels of customer satisfaction.
In the front store comps were down 5.8%.
This would have been approximately 490 basis points higher in adjusting for the tobacco impact.
Front store sales reflected softer customer traffic partially offset by an increase in basket size and we continued to gain share in our core health and beauty business categories.
Front store margins increased in the quarter benefiting from the tobacco exit the growth in the higher-margin health and beauty businesses along with increased store brand sales.
Store brand penetration continued to increase in the quarter reaching 21.8% of front end sales.
That's up about 150 basis points from last year.
And while about two-thirds of that improvement results from tobacco no longer being in the denominator the rest is driven by new product introductions and increased customer loyalty.
Our focus on positioning ourselves as a leading health and beauty destination to drive profitable growth continues to show a great deal of opportunity.
Early results from the stores that have been updated have been positive and we plan to expand our healthy food and elevated beauty programs in 2016 and Helena will provide more detail at Analyst Day.
Turning to our store growth for the quarter we opened 43 new stores relocated 11 closed two resulting in 41 net new stores and we'll add about 150 net new stores for the full year of 2015 equating to an anticipated increase in retail square footage growth of right around 2%.
As for MinuteClinic we opened 23 new clinics in the quarter and we ended the quarter with 1 020 clinics across 32 states plus the District of Columbia.
Revenues increased approximately 13% versus the same quarter a year ago.
And then lastly let me just touch briefly on our Enterprise Digital initiatives.
Our vision here is to create a connected health experience that makes it easier for people to save time save money and stay healthy.
And to date 27 million customers have engaged digitally with CVS Health and in specialty we are engaging 36% of all specialty patients making it the highest penetrated digital program that we have.
So we're pleased with the progress that we're making on the digital front.
So with that let me turn it back over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry.
As you can tell it's certainly been an eventful quarter with a lot of moving parts in our business.
So this morning I'll try to frame up our results with an eye to making easy comparisons to what we have previously expected.
But first as I typically do I'd like to begin by highlighting how our disciplined approach to capital allocation continues to enhance shareholder value.
I'll follow that with a detailed review of our solid third-quarter results and an update on our 2015 guidance that now includes Omnicare.
So as it relates to our capital allocation program let's begin with our dividend payout.
We paid $391 million in dividends in the third quarter and $1.2 billion year-to-date.
Our dividend payout ratio stands at 28.9% over the trailing four quarters after excluding the impact of non-recurring items in both years.
We remain well on track to achieve our target of 35% by 2018.
During the third quarter we repurchased approximately 9 million shares for $937 million.
And year-to-date we've repurchased approximately 37.8 million shares for about $3.9 billion or $102.47 per share.
For the full year we continue to expect to complete $5 billion of share repurchases reflecting an increase of approximately 25% versus 2014 levels.
So between dividends and share repurchases we returned more than $5 billion to our shareholders in the first nine months of 2015 alone and we continue to expect to return more than $6 billion for the full year.
And as I noted on our last earnings call to fund the Omnicare and target acquisitions we issued a series of senior notes in July totaling $15 billion which raised our leverage ratio to approximately 3.2 times.
We also assumed about $700 million of remaining Omnicare debt which increased our leverage ratio a bit further.
We remain committed to getting back to our 2.7 times target over time.
As I stated on the last call while we have not specified a specific deadline for achieving that our strong cash generation should enable us to do so in a reasonable amount of time.
As Larry mentioned we have generated nearly $3.4 billion of free cash in the first nine months of the year.
We remain on track with our prior guidance for the full year and continue to expect to produce free cash of between $5.9 billion and $6.2 billion in 2015.
Turning to the income statement adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding acquisition-related activity came in at $1.29 per share near the high end of our guidance range.
That excludes $0.01 of acquisition related dilution from the net effect of the July 15 debt financing partially offset by the inclusion of Omnicare's operation.
We also incurred approximately $0.10 of acquisition-related bridge financing transaction and integration costs throughout the quarter.
GAAP diluted EPS was $1.10 per share.
As most of you know when we provided guidance on the last quarter's earnings call we specifically excluded the interest from the senior notes as well as the results of Omnicare's operations as the timing of the close was uncertain.
Now that the deal has closed we believe that it makes sense that going forward to include both of these items in our guidance.
So on that basis adjusted earnings per share in the third quarter was $1.28.
This includes the 2.5 months of senior note financing costs which was partially offset by 1.5 months of Omnicare's operations throughout the quarter.
Combined that resulted in net dilution of approximately $0.01.
So with that let me quickly walk down the P&amp;L keep in mind that these numbers all reflect the inclusion of Omnicare in our results.
Our a consolidated basis revenues in the third quarter increased 10.3% to $38.6 billion.
In the PBM segment revenues increased 13.3% to $25.5 billion while the addition of Omnicare specialty business did contribute to growth versus LY it was not the primary driver.
PBM growth in the quarter nicely exceeded expectations even after removing the impact of Omnicare specialty business.
This year-over-year increase was driven largely by growth in specialty pharmacy as well as an increase in pharmacy network claims.
The growth in specialty was driven by inflation as well as increased claims due to new products and new clients.
Partially offsetting this growth was an approximately 130 basis point increase in our generic dispensing rate versus the same quarter of LY to 83.8%.
In our Retail Long-Term Care business revenues increased 6.9% in the quarter to $17.9 billion with approximately half of the increase due to the addition of the long-term care business.
Excluding Omnicare's long-term care business revenue growth was solidly within our guidance range.
This growth was driven primarily by strong pharmacy same-store sales and growth in scripts.
Retail's Long-Term Care Segments generic dispensing rate also increased approximately 140 basis points to 84.8%.
Turning to gross margin we reported 17.2% for the consolidated company in the quarter a contraction of approximately 125 basis points compared to Q3 of 2014.
Inside each segment's performance the decline is due in part to a mix shift in our business as our lower-margin PBM business continues to grow faster than our Retail Long-Term Care business.
Within the PBM segment gross margin declined approximately 45 basis points from Q3 of 2014 to 5.8%.
This was driven by ongoing price compression as well as business mix resulting from stronger growth in lower margin areas such as Medicare and Medicaid.
Those factors were partially offset by the improvement in GDR as well as favorable purchasing and rebate economics.
Despite the decline in gross margin rate gross profit dollars were up 4.7%.
Gross margin in the Retail Long-Term Care Segment was 30% down approximately 125 basis points from last year.
This was driven by the continued pressure on pharmacy reimbursement rates the continued mix shift towards pharmacy and the addition of the long-term care business which carries a slightly lower overall margin rate than retail.
This pressure was partially offset by a number of positive factors including the increase in GDR favorable pharmacy purchasing economics as well as an increased front-store margin due to changes in the mix of products that we sold.
And while gross margin rate was down gross profit dollars did increase by 2.6% throughout the quarter.
Total operating expenses as a percent of revenue improved by approximately 120 basis points compared to Q3 of 2014 to 10.9%.
The PBM segment's SG&amp;A rate improved by 20 basis points to 1.2% with growth in operating expense dollars in line with expectations.
Operating expenses actually declined within the PBM by $10 million despite the addition of the Omnicare specialty business.
Operating expenses as a percent of sales in the Retail Long-Term Care Segment improved by approximately 140 basis points to 20.8% due to higher legal costs in last year's third quarter.
This excludes approximately $20 million of costs related to the Omnicare integration.
Within the Corporate Segment expenses increased to $309 million driven by the acquisition-related integration and transaction costs associated with Omnicare as well as the proposed acquisition of Target pharmacies and clinics.
These costs totaled $115 million.
Excluding these costs corporate expenses were better than expected and improved year-over-year.
So adding it all up and excluding integration and transaction costs operating margin for the total enterprise declined by 5 basis points in the quarter to 6.4%.
On the same basis operating margin in the PBM declined approximately 25 basis points to 4.6% while operating margin in the Retail Long-Term Care Segment improved by approximately 10 basis points to 9.2%.
So putting aside any acquisition-related items which is the basis with which we guided the Retail Long-Term Care Segment posted solid operating profit growth of 4.9% within our 4% to 6% guidance range.
The PBM segment posted operating profit growth of 6.2% slightly exceeding the high end of our 2% to 6% guidance range.
Going forward these lines become more blurred so we won't be breaking out our results excluding Omnicare.
Now going below the line of the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter increased approximately $108 million from last year to $261 million.
This was driven by the financing costs associated with the bridge loan facility that we entered into in connection with the Omnicare deal as well as the senior notes we placed in July in support of the acquisitions.
During the third quarter we recorded amortization of the bridge loan fees for approximately $16 million.
Our effective tax rate was 40.2%.
The large increase year-over-year was primarily due to the non-deductible transaction costs associated with the Omnicare acquisition.
Excluding any acquisition-related items the tax rate was slightly lower than expected.
Out weighted average share count was 1.1 billion shares again in line with expectations.
So with that let me now turn to our 2015 guidance.
I'm going to concentrate on the highlights here but you can find the details of our guidance on the slides that we posted on our website earlier this morning.
To be clear with the exception of free cash flow and GAAP all of the figures and growth rates that I'll mention exclude acquisition-related bridge financing transactions and integration costs in 2015 as well as the loss from the early extinguishment of debt in 2014.
Given that the Target transaction is expected to close near year-end it could actually occur in 2015 or 2016.
You will note on slide 38 that if the Target deal closes this year we have estimated approximately $0.02 of transaction costs which we have not included in our adjusted EPS guidance range.
Of course Omnicare's operations and any synergies we achieve are included as is the interest associated with all of the long-term notes.
For the year we raised and narrowed our guidance range and now expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share of $5.14 to $5.18 reflecting strong year-over-year growth of approximately 14.25% to 15.25%.
This layers in the net impact of the Omnicare's operation and the interest on the debt which combined is expected to be about $0.01 accretive for the year.
This increases the midpoint of our guidance by about $0.015 to $5.16.
Our revised guidance reflects our solid performance through the first nine months of this year as well as the continued confidence in our outlook.
This guidance also continues to assume share repurchases totaling approximately $5 billion for the full year of 2015.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $4.69 to $4.73.
In the fourth quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.51 to $1.55 up 24.75% to 28.25% from Q4 2014.
This fourth quarter guidance excludes any dilution from integration and transaction costs.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $1.41 to $1.45.
As you'll note sequentially Q4 profit growth is expected to be somewhat higher than what we've experienced year-to-date.
I'd like to remind you of a few factors influencing the quarterly profit cadence across our business.
First the benefits from break-open generics in Q4 of 2015; second Q4 is the first quarter in which we have fully lapped the impact from our decision to exit the tobacco category; and finally the timing of Med D profits is skewed more towards Q4 this year versus last year.
Now I'll go through the details of our fourth quarter guidance.
Within the Retail Long-Term Care Segment we expect revenues to be up 9% to 10.5% versus the fourth quarter of last year.
Adjusted script comps are expected to increase 3.5% to 4.5% and total same-store sales are expected to increase 0.75% to 2.25%.
Obviously the primary reason for the large gap between comp and total revenue growth is the addition of the long-term care business.
We expect to see a moderate decline year-over-year in Retail Long-Term Care gross margins in the fourth quarter.
This is expected to be driven primarily by the continued reimbursement pressures we are experiencing as well as the impact of adding Omnicare which carried lower margins again offset to some degree by the benefit from break-open generics.
We expect the Retail Long-Term Care Segment's operating profit to increase 19.25% to 21.25% in the fourth quarter reflecting the addition of the long-term care business as well as an improvement in front store margin dollar growth as we cycle the tobacco exit.
It also reflects an improvement in operating expenses as a percent of revenue.
For the PBM segment we expect revenue to increase 10.5% to 12% for the fourth quarter and adjusted claims to be between 295 million and 300 million claims.
The PBM is benefiting from the addition of Omnicare's specialty business.
We expect to see a moderate improvement in PBM gross margins during the fourth quarter driven by generic conversions.
Combined with the modest improvement in operating expenses as a percent of revenues due to the growth of the specialty we expect the PBM segment's operating profit to be up 24% to 27% over last year's fourth quarter.
And we expect operating expenses in the Corporate Segment to be between $215 million and $220 million.
So as a result for the total enterprise in the quarter we expect revenues to be up approximately 9.75% to 11.5% from the fourth quarter of LY.
This is after intercompany eliminations which are projected to equal about 10.8% of combined segment revenues.
For the total company gross profit margins are expected to be modestly down from last year's fourth quarter driven largely by mix.
Operating expenses as a percent of revenues are expected to significantly improve in the fourth quarter.
We expect operating margin for the total company in the quarter to be up 75 basis points to 85 basis points from last year's fourth quarter.
We expect net interest expense of between $275 million and $280 million and a tax rate of approximately 39.3% in the fourth quarter.
We anticipate that we'll have approximately 1.11 billion weighted average shares for the quarter which would imply approximately 1.13 billion for the year.
As I said we continue to expect to generate free cash flow in the range of $5.9 billion to $6.2 billion.
So in summary this was another strong high-quality quarter with good financial performance across the enterprise including our new businesses.
And importantly our outlook remains strong both for the remainder of this year as well as next year.
We continue to remain focused on using our robust free cash flow to drive value for all of our stakeholders both now as well as into the future.
And so with that I'll turn it back over to Larry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks Dave.
And just wrapping up obviously we're confident we believe we have the right strategy for long-term growth in this evolving health care marketplace.
Our integrated model and unique suite of assets remain unmatched and we remain focused on driving sustainable growth with an enterprise mindset.
So again we're pleased with the quarter we announced today and remain well positioned to continue to grow gain share deliver on our targets and return value to our shareholders.
Let me just add that we hope you found all of the details that we provided this morning very helpful.
I know we covered a lot of ground and I'm sure you have questions so let's go ahead and open it up for those questions.
Thank you.
We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session.
Our first question comes from the line of Ross Muken with Evercore.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning guys.
So getting a lot of questions in the inbox obviously with all of the moving parts.
Can you just help us understand first in terms of the fourth quarter on the retail side and on the pharma services side what are the key changes on the base business on a sequential basis versus the last time we spoke regarding the second quarter as we think about the implied fourth quarter from that guide versus where we are today.
What are the moving parts and how is the underlying kind of change because to us it sort of seems like it's come down from maybe the mid to upper teens to the low to mid-teens so we are just trying to get some clarity on that.
Is that the case and what's sort of the driving factors? Hey Ross.
This is Dave.
I think if you go back and look at how we guided on Q2 and looked at our Q3 guidance and then therefore our implied Q4 guidance Q4 has not from a core basis changed.
Essentially what we've done we've added a couple of pennies into Q4 based on the inclusion of Omnicare's business but fundamentally Q4 from our expectations has not deteriorated.
In fact it has remained solid and has remained consistent from our projections.
That's helpful Dave.
So I just wanted to get that out of the way.
I guess big picture wise there's a lot going on right? So we obviously saw (42:53) your peers earlier in the week getting together.
The results on the pharmacy side at least across the spectrum and across the whole supply chain have been pretty mixed.
How do you characterize the current environment I guess overall and the pushes and pulls? And then as you think about longer-term I guess vis--vis what was implied in the 2016 guide it still feels like you've got this winning business model that can kind of endure.
And so how should we put sort of the competitive noise some of the near-term noise in perspective relative to how you feel about kind of the long-term positioning? I don't want to pre-pull ahead to Analyst Day but as you can just help us here I think all of us are just trying to put this into context.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ross good morning.
It's Larry.
It's a great question Ross.
And we feel really good about our positioning in the marketplace and our strategy and as you've heard us talk in the past we've talked about aggregating lives and growing share and recognizing the multitude of ways in which we can manage those lives with access quality and cost in mind and our focus around that has been to look at the differentiated ways that we can grow our core business and at the same time broaden our base of services.
So I think many of the variables that we've talked about in the marketplace I don't think those variables have changed.
Whether it's talking about margin compression or the contribution from generics obviously there're going to be ebbs and flows in terms of the timing of those variables but we feel that we're very well positioned recognizing that the health care marketplace is evolving and we see ourselves as an important player.
That's helpful.
I guess I don't mean to be a question hog but I will be very direct so I guess just to be clear your confidence in your business model over the long-term and your ability to deliver the long-term targets no change whatsoever? Absolutely.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We remain very confident in those long-term targets Ross.
Well if you're confident I'm confident.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thanks Ross.
Thanks Ross.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks for the questions.
I guess just to put a little more specificity around the 2016 guide it looks like a lot of moving pieces and Dave definitely appreciate all the detail.
But even adjusting for Omnicare and Target it certainly seems like you are below your steady-state range that you've shared before of 7% to 9%.
And it does seem like it's actually moderating in both segments.
Can you maybe just  if I'm thinking about that right first off and then more importantly can you maybe just give us a sense of what's changing in your minds for next year relative to what we have experienced the last few? Well I'm not sure that I see much change in our business from that perspective.
As we look at our business and we look at how we're performing we continue to grow and gain share in both segments of our business.
Now we have an additional channel to serve from an Omnicare perspective and obviously we look forward to the addition of the Target pharmacies in our base business.
So I think our outlook remains strong from that perspective and we see solid growth across both segments excluding the acquisitions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Bob it's Larry.
As you know for some time now we've messaged our focus around enterprise growth and as we've talked and we've provided some examples the reality of that is we could have a segment of our business be sub-optimized for a greater enterprise growth and a good example of that is the high-growth specialty business that as we talked about how Specialty Connect works and the fact that it leverages our retail channel assets but as a result of fulfillment occurring through the PBM channel you see that economically flow through the PBM segment.
So we always appreciate the fact that you'd like to have an apples-to-apples comparison to our primary Retail and PBM competitors but the reality is that's not how we're running the business and by the way we think that's a good thing because of what we've been able to do when you look at enterprise growth and I think as we bring more innovation into the marketplace those lines continue to get more and more blurred and it becomes harder and harder to create that apples-to-apples comparison.
No I appreciate that.
I guess it's more directionally I think the concern in the marketplace if we just look at  even take the core retail drug business.
It does seem like this year the progression on the gross margin has been negative.
If I back out some of the moving pieces it certainly seems the growth you're calling for for next year not that it's not healthy it is just below what we have become accustomed to.
So I guess the real question is just are there things changing in the underlying fundamentals whether it'd be script trends reimbursement rate pressure are there any things that are notably different in your mind as you look into 2016 relative to 2015 or even 2014? No I think what is important is as you think about our business and to your point there's a lot of moving parts here but the thesis of our financial performance has not changed.
I think the cadence in some cases changes based on when generics come to market as an example or when competition enters into one of our formulary classes all of which can influence the cadence of when profits occur not that they're going to occur over time.
So I think the fundamental thesis of our financial model and our business model remains intact.
Got it.
All right.
Thanks guys.
You're welcome.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah hi.
Good morning guys.
I was hoping that we could maybe unfortunately zero back in on this gross margin issue here within retail.
Because it does seem like within your guidance you are expecting a more material decline than what you maybe alluded to last quarter and I don't know if I'm right or wrong about that.
You did mention reimbursement rate pressure not accelerating and maybe there being less offsets than what there's been in the past.
So I don't know maybe you could just pile this together for us and maybe help us understand if there really is a difference in how you are looking at the gross margin in retail.
And then how reimbursement pressure is impacting that or potentially what offsets are not there that may have been before.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Ed it's Larry.
And when you  as we've said  as we talked about margin compression in the past we haven't seen that change.
As Dave outlined in his remarks we've got the ongoing pricing pressure and as you look at the sub-segments within pharmacy we are seeing higher growth coming out of those segments that carry with it lower margins so when you look at the Medicare the Medicaid segments.
And as we've have talked and as you just alluded to there are a lot of things that we've done to offset margin compression whether you think about purchasing economics Red Oak Sourcing as an example our focus on formulary management becomes an example of that.
You think about what we've been able to do in terms of bringing innovative products into the marketplace that create value for clients and at the same time drive share shift into one of our distribution channels as well as our ongoing focus on technology and process improvements in an effort to become even more efficient and productive.
So those things have not changed in terms of where our focus lies.
And as we talked earlier we can have some ebb and flow issues in terms of the timing and the syncing up of those.
And a good example of that is the timing of generics whether it's new introductions or the timing of generics entering their break-open period.
And again we'll talk more about that and provide some additional color around that at Analyst Day.
And just one follow up related to next year.
I mean this is kind of asked but it does seem like Retail operating profit growth maybe excluding Omnicare is not really going to grow next year is that right I guess first of all? That's not correct.
You will see growth in the core.
That's not correct.
Okay.
But you did guide to mid-single-digit retail operating profit growth next year; is that right? I did.
I did.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah hi.
Good morning.
So not to beat on a dead horse but maybe a little bit differently.
So when we back out kind of like the acquisitions right EPS growth for  excluding Omnicare and Target about 7% to 11%.
So is this basically when we think about kind of like industry dynamics and kind of like the fact that kind of like Medicare and Medicaid is a bigger part of the customer mix is this kind of like the growth profile that we should be thinking about longer-term for a core organic business i.e.
excluding capital deployments? Ricky This is Dave.
And I'm sure Larry will tag on here.
I think  I don't think that's the correct thesis here.
I think what you see is that in some of these businesses especially I'll use our selling season of next year as a good example as we won a lot of health plan business.
It takes us time to kind of sell in different programs and services that add value to them and add value to us and that value to us is driving share into one of our dispensing channels.
So the reimbursement pressure happens more rapidly and the share gains happen over time so this is more of a cadence issue or a cadence discussion than it is a long-term financial outlook discussion.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Ricky I think you can  there's a parallel example with the acquisitions and I think as we may have communicated when we announced Omnicare we'll see the benefit of cost synergy and purchasing synergy sooner than we will revenue synergy.
And we see the opportunities we've talked about the opportunity to grow share especially in the assisted and independent living space but it will take some time to sell in those programs.
Okay and then on the follow-up obviously you are seeing some softer customer traffic on the Retail side.
Obviously the PBM is growing nicely through share gains.
I think the utilization environment continues to be a dynamic.
You are in best position to see trends in 2016 because you see what your customers are doing on the plan side.
When you think about kind of like the co-pay structures for next year the cost sharing for next year what is kind of like your view on next year's kind of like utilization trends? Ricky it's Dave.
It's probably a little too early to go through that at this point in time.
It's certainly something we'll discuss at Analyst Day.
I just will step back and remind you that I do think that if you look across the industry the pharmacy utilization or prescription utilization across the industry is still pretty solid.
I think we've experienced a little bit of weakness as we're cycling quite frankly the bolus of Medicaid expansion last year and probably a little bit of softness in some seasonality scripts.
But for the most part utilization has been pretty good and we think that long-term secular trend in utilization should be robust as pharmacy is the most economical way to treat many of these chronic disease states and you see that chronic disease states increase as age increases and the over 65 population continues to expand as a percent of total.
So I think the outlook for utilization is strong over the long-term.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Ricky just to add to Dave's point you think about the impact of the Affordable Care Act.
Dave talked about the bolus that we've seen from the rapid Medicaid expansion.
And we're going to continue to see more lives enter into the health care system as the Affordable Care Act further evolves.
And I don't want to make a political statement about Medicaid expansion but we still have approximately 20 states that have not expanded Medicaid and there is a question in terms of is that more a question of when versus if and so there is still opportunity for more lives to enter the health care delivery system.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Larry can we take a step back and have a bigger discussion around 2016 as we think about what you've tried to do in putting all these pieces together? I think when you bought Omnicare we had a discussion around fee-for-value and the way the world is moving in that direction and your ability to touch a patient beginning of life to end of life.
Are you in those discussions? Do you see anything in 2016 that having all the pieces on your enterprise is really coming to fruition and we'll start to see that impact in 2016 or are those things that are going to come longer-term on this platform? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Lisa it's a great question.
I think it kind of goes back to the conversation we were just having.
We definitely see the opportunities there as we've begun to have some discussions.
But I do think that maybe we see a little bit in the later part of 2016.
I really think it's more a 2017 and beyond opportunity.
There is a parallel to how Dave was talking about the health plan business that you garner the business and then you have to sell in those programs.
And we're in the process of doing the evaluation and the understanding of exactly what is the optimal value proposition that adds value for the long-term care operators and their residents.
So more to come on that.
As I mentioned earlier we will see the benefits of purchasing and cost synergy as we go through our integration activities throughout 2016.
And then just on the backside of that as you think about your PBM for 2016 and the guidance that you gave high single to low double-digit but again realizing a lot of this is health plan can you or I don't know if Jon is on the call today maybe just give us some indication as to what plan design looks like for next year? What about the rest of your book? How about your existing book? Do you have people buying into more programs as we think about 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Lisa I'll go ahead and start and Jon is here.
He'll jump in.
We are continuing to see adoption of programs like Maintenance Choice Pharmacy Advisor.
We'll put some  once we  once  as Dave mentioned once we finalize everything for 2016 we'll provide some additional color and details at Analyst Day.
So those programs are continuing to add value.
I'll turn it over to Jon.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Yeah I mean Lisa this is Jon.
As we talk to our clients we just had advisory council meetings on both the employer and the health plan side.
Pharmacy is their highest priority when they look at their overall health care costs and they are  they will be much more aggressive moving forward in plan designs than they have historically been.
So they're looking for us to show them opportunities to more tightly manage their benefits which will save them money and at the same time we believe in many cases drive more share into our channels.
And also drive profitability right? That's the correct way to think about this? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That's correct.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Next question? Our next question comes from the line of George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys and thanks for taking the question.
I'm going to go back to the dead horse here and talk about the Retail side a little bit.
I guess can you give us any color or quantify the impact of mix and kind of changing script mix on the margin profile of the business? You've talked  mentioned a couple times on the call about the growth in Medicaid and Medicare.
We continue to see the reimbursement compression in Med D.
I guess can you kind of quantify the mix effect or talk a little about the mix effect of kind of who's walking in the door in the prescription dispensing and regional business? Yeah George that's a great question.
We're not going to  we can't do that today.
We're not going to do that today.
I will say one thing about that is that you've heard Larry and I speak and others speak about this in the past.
As we've been very focused on as we think about our participation in Medicare Part D in preferred situations in the sense that being a preferred provider in some of those networks we look at the economics we model the economics and we make decisions that's in the best interest of our company on how we participate in those.
And so we have chosen in many cases not to participate but it doesn't make good economic sense and we participate where we can actually drive value for the plan participants in the plans and the payers that we support in that space.
And we're very focused we're very disciplined on that and we make very I think rational decisions there.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay and then maybe my quick follow-up would be so Larry has said that reimbursement pressure has not changed.
As I think about the store is kind of reimbursement pressure in the different silos constant and mix is changing and that's kind of driving the impact? Or is just the rate of decline across the book of business kind of the same and then maybe just the tackle a quick comment on what you're seeing in preferred or restricted network strategies in commercial? Thanks.
Well what we have said is that the reimbursement the intensity of the reimbursement pressure has not changed but we have seen obviously consistent with what we said at last Analyst Day is that Medicare and Medicaid are really the areas of growth in this business at the moment and they carry a lower margin rate and that's the reality.
And as we indicated before we work kind of three ways to kind of offset that reimbursement pressure in our business.
First we work to improve our purchasing economics.
And we've been pretty creative in that fashion.
Red Oak's a great example or exclusive formularies are a great example of how we reduce our cost of goods sold.
Secondly we work hard to improve the efficiency across our operation.
We put in technologies and processes to make us fill our scripts more efficiently throughout all of our store base and in our mail centers.
And finally and most importantly we work to put programs in place that drive value for our payers but also drive share into one of our dispensing channels.
And those efforts they take time.
They take time to implement.
And we're working hard at that.
You've seen rapid adoption of Maintenance Choice.
There's  and you see you are beginning to see some adoption of I'll say limited networks in some Medicaid areas.
But we continue to push in that area to offset those margin pressures.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And George I do  it's Larry.
The second part of your question I do think we're seeing and we will see a growing appetite for preferred or premium or restricted networks whatever verbs or words you want to use.
And if you look at the Medicaid space we've seen that.
Okay? We've got  today we've got more than half the Medicaid business that is now no longer fee-for-service.
It's managed Medicaid.
And I think as Jon mentioned a minute ago clients are continuing to look for cost saving ways in which they can reduce their overall pharmacy spend.
Our next question comes from the line of David Larsen with Leerink Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey.
Can you talk about pricing a bit and how that impacts your overall book? So if we see a deceleration in generic inflation how will that impact your enterprise? I mean isn't that a tailwind to your retail gross margins? And then also your specialty products if the rate of inflation starts to decelerate what sort of impact could there be on your book? Thanks.
Dave this is Dave.
Just a couple of things.
First and foremost our focus is to lower cost for the payers and clients that we serve.
And every day we come to work focused against that.
I would say that from a generic standpoint there has been a lot of chatter around generic inflation in the industry.
Keep in mind generics overall are a deflationary category for us and they continue to be a deflationary category.
We have been effective at managing that and that has had essentially an immaterial impact on our performance.
And we expect that inflation events going forward to have an immaterial effect on our performance as well.
On the branded side of the world we continue to model specifically what's happening from a branded inflation standpoint.
We look at that very specifically molecule-by-molecule.
Our expectation is that branded inflation will continue to occur.
And again we use many tools across our business to drive costs down in those categories particularly within our formulary management aspect.
We do think that if there's a deceleration or an acceleration of branded inflation we don't believe it to have a material effect across our line of business all of our businesses.
Okay that's very helpful thanks.
And then in terms of the PBM wins if I understand you correctly these are large wins that will roll into 2016 but it can time to basically drive incremental earnings from those.
You've got to sell your managed choice program and as you're successful in that you can drive more store traffic to the CVS channel.
And over time you will realize incremental earnings from those new client starts? That's correct.
I think the challenge as I said in my prepared remarks an employer with one decision maker can make the decision for their entire book of business.
So at a stroke of a pen an employer who has 100 000 member group can offer Maintenance Choice.
In health plans that's not how it works.
A health plan might really want to adopt Maintenance Choice as an example but then they have to go get their sales teams to go out and call upon all of their clients.
And they sell that program in client by client by client.
And that just takes time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Dave if you go back to our Analyst Day last December I think it might have been in Jon's presentation when we looked at the employer segment and the health plan segment.
And we showed what percent of pharmacy business went through one of our distribution channels and in the employer segment that number was in the high 50%s in the health plan segment that number was in the high 20%s recognizing the point that you and Dave were just making and obviously it takes a while but at the same time there's a lot of white space there and a big opportunity for growth as we go forward Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Larry.
A big big big picture question if you look at the pure Retail business and I know you look at it holistically but that business as it is presently constituted do you think we are approaching a profit margin ceiling? And if not what are the one or two kind of big ideas that can change that? Is personalized digital circulars and doing away with print is that one of those things that can move the needle a lot from where we are today? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well John I'll take the first part and then ask Helena to comment on our personalization efforts.
But John as you know we have been one of the leaders in that space and I would turn around and tell you that we have not capped our opportunity in terms of operating margin performance.
And if you think about the fact that again we continue to be focused on ways in which we can become even more productive and efficient but it's also about growing the top line and the benefits in growing share the leverage that that creates for the bottom line as we're able to leverage a lot of those fixed costs across that next sales dollar.
So we certainly see opportunities for more growth there.
Right.
And just building on that I agree with Larry the number one way that we think about it is that idea of script growth and leveraging our fixed assets but we're also really excited about all the opportunity that exists in the front store and we'll talk more about this at Analyst Day but you heard me say last year that we've got five key elements of our growth strategy and they were around better health made easy elevating beauty customer-driven personalization myCVS Store and digital innovation.
And I think the combination of personalization and digital innovation really strikes us as our biggest opportunity.
And certainly we have a 17-year history of using ExtraCare.
We have 70 million active members.
But I have to say in the last year the work that the team has done to really identify even further opportunities to continue to pull back on our core mass circular efforts and reinvest that margin in higher-performing opportunities with customers who have lots of upside that's where we're excited.
And I'd be happy to share more of that when we see you in December.
All right.
And then just secondly where are we with the uptake on Maintenance Choice 2.0? Is there yet an acceleration or is it too early? Starting with 2.0 and moving to sort of core Maintenance Choice; is that likely a couple of years down the road or are we seeing any of that yet? CVS/caremark</span></strong> Well John we continue  this is Jon.
We continue to see growth in Maintenance Choice.
2.0 made it attractive to a broader suite of clients.
So we have 2 400 clients we're approaching 23 million lives.
We saw the ceiling on it is 34 million lives so we're continuing to grow.
And I think as with pharmacy being such front-and-center as payers look for opportunities to manage those costs I think Maintenance Choice becomes a great opportunity for them to bring their pharmacy costs down.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
I wonder if you could give us the specialty growth number in the quarter excluding Omnicare? And then digging in a little more on specialty big picture how would you be impacted if the space does come under a little more regulatory scrutiny and we put some price controls on some of the manufacturers there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mark it's Larry.
Our growth without Omnicare in specialty was 27%.
I think in our prepared remarks we said it was 32% with Omnicare included.
Mark our views on all this noise about price controls it's not the first time we've heard that rhetoric in the market.
As Dave mentioned we get up every day and focus on how we can reduce costs for our clients and we've got a multitude of ways that we have done that across both the traditional pharmacy business as well as the specialty business and there are solutions to further reducing costs.
And the umbrella centers around introducing more competition within therapeutic classes that would allow us to do an even more effective job with what we do today.
And I'm sure you are aware there is a backlog of approvals awaiting decision in the FDA.
That's certainly one way to increase competition and at the same time there is a huge opportunity to reduce costs by focusing on site of care administration and getting the right reimbursements aligned that promotes that method of delivery versus care being delivered in an outpatient center and we've been able to demonstrate the savings that we can create for clients and their members through Coram with infusions in our retail infusion site or at home.
I think what I was trying to get at is what does that do to your profitability outlook if things come under controls? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think it goes back Mark a little bit to what Dave was talking about in terms of as you look across the enterprise okay we could see different effects and different segments but across our enterprise we believe that it would have a muted and immaterial effect.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Priya Ohri-Gupta with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for taking the question.
Just shifting gears a little bit.
Dave it looks like you still need to undertake the vast majority of your sale leaseback actions for the year.
Are you seeing any shifts in market dynamics that might support most of that coming out of the 144A market that you use or should we think about you guys undertaking a more balanced approach similar to what you've done across markets in prior years? Priya good question.
I think what we have  I think the market is still robust for us from a sale leaseback perspective.
I think we have used multiple mechanisms to support our program; I think that has allowed us to ensure that we competitively price all of our programs.
We are  I think it's a great program.
I think we've done a good job of making sure that we have a lot of active participants in the program and that has allowed us to I think drive costs out of the program quite frankly.
Again like the pharmacy business competition especially helps and we work hard to create competition in the space Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my questions and really appreciated all the detail Dave in the spreadsheets and the presentation.
So what I wanted to get into and I know people have been talking about it a lot but I'm just trying to understand you guys talked about reimbursement pressures and that there is always offsets and I think Dave you outlined three different offsets.
So I guess what I'm trying to frame is what's missing in 2016 or maybe is a little less of an offset when compared to 2014 and 2015 of the three buckets that you outlined for us? Scott that's a great question.
Listen I think that's probably a topic mostly for Analyst Day quite frankly at this point in time.
I would say as we look forward our growth rate is still pretty robust.
I think that we continue to work to gain share we are gaining share and growing our business across both segments.
And as we indicated a little bit the opportunity really is probably to grow dispensing share over time.
And that just  unfortunately that just doesn't happen out of the gate.
We have to work hard to do that over time and I think you are seeing some of that.
Okay.
And then this is kind of just  two little follow-ups.
Do you expect any divestitures needed with Target? The data doesn't support that.
Okay.
But we'll have to see.
And then the second thing that kind of caught my attention and you said I believe there is some recent utilization softness and I was wondering we have seen indications very recently of some softness out of the consumer.
What's your take on that? I think you gave us some explanations but I don't know what your take on that was.
Yeah I think I am sorry maybe I will clarify my comment.
The softness that we've seen a little bit is mainly around the acute seasonal business.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Seasonal business.
And I don't know if that is due to dynamics from a weather perspective over what have you but that's really been the softness.
And then secondly we are cycling the expansion of Medicaid the Medicaid programs from last year.
So that kind of I'd say dilutes the year-over-year growth rate if you will.
Okay so you don't really see it as a consumer issue don't see anything in the front-end? No.
There's nothing that indicates there's a consumer issue here.
No.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
See you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Scott.
Our next question comes from the line of Eric Bosshard with Cleveland Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Wanted to circle back I don't know if you agreed with the math discussed earlier of the underlying 7% to 11% growth in 2016 excluding the benefit from the acquisitions but comment on if you think that's in the right range and what you think that number looks like in 2017? And I appreciate sort of the 10% to 14% long-term but just curious if the underlying in 2016 you would think would look different in 2017 or is that the right way to think about the underlying ex-acquisitions going forward? Eric you're getting way ahead of it here buddy.
2017.
I think let's just focus on 2016 at the moment.
Listen again I think we're pretty confident in our outlook for next year.
We continue to make progress as I say gaining and growing share across both of our business segments.
I would say that as we talked about our financial plan we always talked about the fact that we include bolt-on acquisitions in our plan and that is consistent with our expectation.
Okay and then if I could just  and I appreciate that year-by-year thought process.
But I will go back.
Eric one thing.
As I said earlier when we made those financial targets we set those financial targets we have been I'd say trending to the high side of those targets through 2013 through 2016.
And those financial targets remain in place.
We think they're appropriate for our business and our business model and the environment we compete in.
And so we are not  we stand behind those and none of that has changed.
Okay.
I guess the follow up if you could just provide a little bit of clarity the 2013 2014 2015 at the high end of that without acquisition benefit there's more acquisition benefit in 2016 and you're still in the same range.
So what's different ex the acquisition in 2016 relative to the 2013 2014 2015? We also did  we did Coram and other acquisitions as well.
So you can't predict the timing of some of these acquisitions.
They happen when they happen when the market's available so...
Okay.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Take care.
Our next question comes from the line of Robert Willoughby with Bank of America  Merrill Lynch.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
You mentioned Omnicare didn't meet your expectations for the quarter but can you give us any greater detail on the performance so that we could see what kind of disruption if any happened in the latest period with the transition? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Eric it's Larry.
There's really I'm sorry Bob.
Okay.
We just hung up with Eric.
So sorry Bob.
Okay.
I'm going to pay a dear price for that I know.
Okay.
Bob there's really  the business has been performing as it had earlier in the year as an independent public company.
We haven't seen anything material in terms of client changes or anything of that nature.
So as I mentioned we feel good with the performance and the integration activities are off to a very good start.
Is there any possibility we get like a one last bed count or script count number for the business before it's consolidated? Probably not.
Good question though.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Go ahead.
I was going to say we'll take two more questions.
But please go ahead.
Okay.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
I don't know  this is actually James Auh on for Charles.
I don't know if this was asked before but has OC's generic volume shifted over to Red Oak yet? It has not yet.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It has not yet.
But as we stated when we announced the acquisition that our plan would be and our plan is to migrate the generic sourcing to Red Oak and that activity is being executed as we speak.
And we'll be completed early next year.
Also recently the biosimilar Neupogen was launched.
Can you maybe talk about the uptake you have seen and how that's shaping your view of biosimilars going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That particular product is really not a good proxy for us to comment on because it's largely a product that is utilized in a hospital setting.
So it really is not largely dispensed within our distribution channel.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Last question please? Our final question comes from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning.
So a lot of the critical questions have been asked at this point.
The one I wanted to still touch on a little bit here was just without giving any specific numbers around Red Oak just trying to get a sense for how material your overall volume discounts on generic procurement will be by adding Omnicare and eventually Target? And really just the thought pattern is is it more about improving the COGS just for those two additional books by leveraging your current pricing and procurement levels or is there still adequate runway to improve your overall COGS by adding this volume? This is Dave.
I think obviously in the short run the real opportunity  the immediate-term opportunity is improving the COGS within those businesses specifically as they transition into our program.
As you know Red Oak is focused on partnering with generic manufacturers to drive I'll say win-win scenarios that drive cost improvements for us and also savings for them from a manufacturing perspective.
And I think the team has done just a terrific job getting our program up and running and this is a job that's not done we're constantly working on this and we're constantly figuring out ways to improve our supply chain reduce cost of generics that we procure.
Okay.
All right.
By the way as far as maybe slightly softer 2016 outlook are we sure it's not because you're taking Philidor out of the network for next year? Don't answer.
I am kidding.
Thanks.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
See you soon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Listen everyone we know this was a rather lengthy call with an awful lot of information and we certainly appreciate the questions and we will look forward to seeing everyone on December 16 in New York.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's teleconference.
You may disconnect your lines at this time.
Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode.
Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday February 9 2016.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Nancy Christal Senior Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead ma'am.
Thank you Suzy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today.
I'm here this morning with Larry Merlo President and CEO; and Dave Denton Executive Vice President and CFO.
Jon Roberts President of CVS/caremark; and Helena Foulkes President of CVS/pharmacy are also with us today.
And they will participate in the Q&amp;A session following our prepared remarks.
During the Q&amp;A please limit yourself to no more than one question with a quick follow-up so we can provide more people with a chance to ask their questions.
Please note that we posted a slide presentation on our website before this call.
It summarizes the information in our prepared remarks as well as some additional facts and figures regarding our operating performance and guidance.
Later this afternoon we'll be filing our Form 10-K and it will also be available on our website at that time.
In addition note that during today's presentation we'll make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws.
By their nature all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements for a number of reasons as described in our SEC filings including the risk factor section and cautionary statement and disclosures in those filings.
During this call we'll also use some non-GAAP financial measures when talking about our company's performance including free cash flow and adjusted EPS.
In accordance with SEC regulations you can find the reconciliations of these non-GAAP items to comparable GAAP measures on the Investor Relations portion of our website.
And as always today's call is being simulcast on our website and it will be archived there following the call for one year.
And now I'll turn this over to Larry Merlo.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Well thanks Nancy.
Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us.
Our fourth quarter results wrapped up a terrific 2015 and during the year we achieved strong performance across our enterprise and completed key acquisitions that will support our strategy for growth in the evolving healthcare market.
We grew our core business with the acquisition of Target's pharmacies and clinics and we expanded our reach with the acquisition of Omnicare the leader in long-term care pharmacy.
And we remain very optimistic that these acquisitions will help drive our long-term growth and I'll update you shortly on our integration progress.
Now for the full year 2015 we delivered 10% growth in consolidated revenues 11% growth in consolidated operating profit and 15% growth in adjusted earnings per share excluding amortization any acquisition related items and the legal charge we mentioned in this morning's release.
As expected growth in the fourth quarter was especially strong with revenues increasing 11% and adjusted earnings per share increasing 26.5% to $1.53 right in line with our guidance.
We generated approximately $3.1 billion of free cash during the quarter and $6.5 billion for the full year above the high end of our guidance and our continued ability to deliver substantial free cash is enabling us to return significant value to our shareholders.
Now for 2016 we are confirming the guidance we provided at Analyst Day back in December.
As a reminder we expect adjusted earnings per share for the full year of $5.73 to $5.88 reflecting year-over-year growth of 11% to 14%.
And Dave will review the details for the year and the first quarter in his remarks.
So let me turn to the business update and start with our very successful 2016 PBM selling season.
Gross client wins for 2016 have increased and they now stand at $14.8 billion with net new business at $12.7 billion.
The increase in net new business of about $1.2 billion from our last update largely reflects incremental growth from our new health plan clients as they closed out their enrollment year.
These numbers exclude enrollment results from our SilverScript PDP and I'll touch on that shortly.
And our 2016 retention rate remains at approximately 98%.
Now our success is a testament to our unmatched products and services our strong service and execution along with our competitive pricing.
And surveys continue to show that our ability to manage costs is our clients' top priority and this is followed by a variety of additional factors with each of our client channels having different priorities.
Our flexibility and expertise in addressing those varying priorities has certainly been a key to our success.
Now with so much new business being transitioned in January I'm also very pleased to report that we have had an extremely successful welcome season.
We effectively added more than 9 million new members 9 million new members who generated a significant year-over-year increase in January's claims volume and clients have given us very positive feedback on our diligence and process and we're pleased with the level of oversight we provided to ensure success.
It's also worth noting that in the past two welcome seasons combined we have successfully added nearly 16 million new Caremark lives.
Looking ahead to 2017's selling season is just underway and we are well positioned competitively for another strong year.
Now it's too early to provide a specific update but our size scale service record and unmatched capabilities make us confident that we will continue to be successful in the marketplace.
Now as we've been discussing top of mind for our clients is their rapidly growing specialty costs and our specialty pharmacy business offers a comprehensive set of programs to help clients effectively manage specialty trend.
As a result we continue to outpace the market and gain share.
In the fourth quarter specialty revenues increased 32% and continued to outpace market growth rates.
Our Medicare Part D business has risen to a leadership position.
We had a successful 2016 annual enrollment period.
Consistent with our expectations we added approximately 0.5 million net lives and began the 2016 plan year with more than 5 million captive PDP lives and that includes EGWPs.
Now when you add in the Med D lives that we manage for our health plan clients the non-captive lives our total rises to 11.3 million Med D lives under management and that's up 41% from the prior year.
Furthermore our enterprise clinical capabilities combined with our strong operational execution enable us to drive Med D Star ratings not only for our own SilverScript PDP but also for our health plan clients Med D offerings.
In fact SilverScript was the largest PDP to achieve a four-star rating and 73% of our clients' lives are now enrolled in a high-performing plan for the 2016 year.
Now turning to our Retail/Long Term Care Segment and I'll start with an update on the integrations Omnicare and Target which are well underway.
In the fourth quarter Omnicare performed well and in line with our expectations as we began to realize some of the anticipated synergies.
As we detailed at Analyst Day there are multiple opportunities for driving enterprise value from Omnicare in both the near and long term.
In the first half of this year we expect to achieve the benefits of purchasing synergies and by the end of the year we will phase in technology to support high-quality customer service and leverage best practices across the organization.
We are combining operational infrastructures and developing programs to improve work streams and enhance delivery service.
And we expect to complete the vast majority of the Omnicare integration activities by year end.
Now opportunities are also being pursued across the continuum of care that will drive long term enterprise value.
For example we are developing an enhanced offering for skilled nursing that's driven by improving coordination during care transitions which should lead to better outcomes for patients providers and payers.
We are also developing segmented assisted-living offerings to better align with residents' varying needs.
And to better target the rapidly growing independent living market we have a consumer driven effort underway that utilizes existing CVS Pharmacy capabilities including the on-site delivery of healthcare services.
So we expect to generate revenue synergies focused on the transitions of care market adjacencies and differentiated offerings.
And these should begin to be realized in the second half of this year and grow in future periods.
And we remain very excited about the opportunities created by this combination along with our enhanced ability to serve seniors across their continuum of care.
Now as for the Target pharmacy and clinic acquisition our highly detailed integration plan is complete.
The integration activities are underway and we have already successfully converted a handful of pilot stores.
As a result the conversions will begin to ramp up throughout this quarter and next and we expect to complete all store conversions by the end of summer.
Now as we complete each store conversion and it's rebranded as CVS Pharmacy at that point we launch our additional core offerings core pharmacy offerings to include Specialty Connect ExtraCare Pharmacy Rewards along with our digital tools.
And that's in addition to Maintenance Choice that was available upon the transaction close.
We'll begin adding marketing elements as geographies convert all with the goal of converting Target guests who currently don't use the pharmacy.
Now moving on to the fourth quarter results in the retail business pharmacy same-store sales increased 5%.
This was negatively impacted by approximately 470 basis points due to recent generic introductions.
Pharmacy same-store prescription volumes increased 5% on a 30-day equivalent basis outperforming overall market growth.
And our retail pharmacy market share again on a 30-day equivalent basis was 21.8% in Q4 and that's up about 65 basis points versus the same quarter a year ago.
For the full year 2015 CVS Pharmacy's Med D share increased 35 basis points versus 2014 and we continue to gain share in this growing market while maintaining a disciplined approach to evaluating participation in preferred Med D networks.
And we expect to maintain our market share position in 2016 helped by our preferred positions in a variety of national and regional plans.
So overall our pharmacy business remains quite strong and continues to gain share.
Our digital team has been working to create a connected health experience that makes it easier to save time and money and to stay healthy by connecting patients to our unique assets when where and how they want.
To-date we've seen 12.7 million downloads of the CVS Pharmacy app 18 million members enrolled in text messaging driving adherence and more than 300 million text messages sent by CVS Pharmacy this past year enhancing the patient experience.
So we continue to focus on driving member adoption of our highly related apps.
In the front store business comps were down slightly 0.5% in the quarter and reflected softer customer traffic partially offset by an increase in basket size.
However front store margins increased notably in the quarter benefiting from efforts to rationalize our promotional strategies along with growth in the higher-margin health and beauty businesses.
ExtraCare continues its commitment to reward our loyal customers with savings through weekly ads and personalized offers as well as ExtraBucks Rewards.
And in 2015 this generated about $4 billion in savings for our loyal customers.
So we continue to see ExtraCare as a source of growth as we leverage customer data to create even more relevant and personalized communications.
Our store brand penetration was 22% in the quarter.
That was down slightly from the prior year.
And for the full year store brand penetration was 21.3% and that's up about 75 basis points.
In 2015 we gained within the drug channel about 140 basis points of share in overall brand sales and about 60 basis points of share in store brand healthcare.
And there remains significant opportunities to expand our share of store brand products by building on core equities in health and beauty and seeking opportunistic growth in other areas where we can link new products to our customers' path to better health.
Turning to our store base we ended the year with about 9 600 retail pharmacies.
And for the full year 2015 we opened 130 net new stores equating to an increase in retail square footage of 2.2%.
And when you add in the acquired Target pharmacies our retail square footage growth for the year comes to 3.1%.
In the fourth quarter in addition to the acquired pharmacies we opened 53 new stores relocated 19 stores closed 14 stores resulting in 39 net new stores.
We also continued to grow the number of clinics.
MinuteClinic is the largest walk-in clinic operator in the country and in the fourth quarter we opened 36 new clinics in addition to the 79 acquired clinics in Target ending the year with 1 135 clinics across 33 states plus the District of Columbia.
Now excluding the Target clinics MinuteClinic revenues increased 4.4% in the quarter that's below our usual trend due to the mild cold flu season versus a year ago.
However we achieved our full year 2015 revenue target of about $345 million.
And with that let me turn it over to Dave for the financial review.
Thank you Larry and good morning everyone.
This morning I will provide a detailed review of our 2015 fourth quarter results and briefly touch upon our 2016 guidance which remains unchanged from what we outlined in December at our Analyst Day.
First I'll start with a summary of last year's capital allocation program which should clearly demonstrate how we're continuing to use our strong free cash flow to return value to our shareholders through both dividends as well as share repurchases.
I'm pleased to say that we continue to drive steady improvement in our dividend payout ratio.
Recall that back in 2010 that our payout ratio was approximately 14%.
We finished 2015 with a payout ratio of 30.1% more than double 2010's level and 240 basis points higher than 2014 on a comparable basis.
We paid approximately $1.6 billion in dividends in 2015 and $391 million in the fourth quarter alone.
Our strong earnings outlook this year combined with the 21% increase in the dividend that we announced at our Analyst Day keeps us well on track to achieve our targeted payout ratio of 35% by 2018.
Along with the significant increases in our dividend we have continued to repurchase our shares.
For all of 2015 we repurchased approximately 48 million shares for about $5 billion averaging $101.23 per share.
In the fourth quarter alone we repurchased approximately 10.2 million shares for $1.1 billion.
Now if you look back over the past three years we've repurchased approximately 166 million shares for about $13 billion at an average price of $78.37 per share.
For the year 2015 between dividends and share repurchases we returned a very significant $6.6 billion to our shareholders.
Now looking forward we have nearly $7.7 billion left in repurchase authorizations and we continue to expect to repurchase $4 billion this year.
Our expectation is that we'd return more than $5 billion to our shareholders in 2016 through a combination of dividends and share repurchases.
We generated $3.1 billion of free cash in the fourth quarter.
In all of 2015 we generated approximately $6.5 billion of free cash which exceeded the high end of our guidance by about $200 million but was essentially flat year-over-year.
The outperformance was driven by client collections.
At the same time we improved our cash cycle by approximately two days thanks to continued improvements in payables management that were partially offset by growth in receivables.
We remain committed to further improvements in working capital as we move forward.
For the year our net capital expenditures were approximately $2 billion.
This included $2.4 billion of gross CapEx offset by about $410 million in sale-leaseback proceeds as well as capital spend associated with the acquisitions.
As for the income statement adjusted earnings per share came in at $1.53 per share at the midpoint of our guidance up 26.5% over LY.
As you can see in our press release in 2015 this excludes amortization the impact of transaction and integration costs related to the Omnicare and Target acquisitions as well as a $90 million legal charge.
The charge is related to a legacy lawsuit challenging the 1999 settlement by MedPartners of various security class actions and a related derivative claim.
For those of you who may not be familiar MedPartners was the former parent company to Caremark.
So this issue goes back to long time.
The growth rate also excludes the loss on early extinguishment of debt that we recorded in 2014.
GAAP diluted EPS was $1.34 per share.
Results across our operating segments were strong as expected.
And with that let me quickly walk down the P&amp;L.
On a consolidated basis revenues in the fourth quarter increased 11% to $41.1 billion.
In the PBM segment net revenues increased 11.1% to $26.5 billion.
This growth was attributable to specialty pharmacy as well as increased volume in pharmacy network claims.
Overall PBM adjusted claims grew 6.4% in the quarter.
Partially offsetting sales growth was 165 basis point increase in our generic dispensing rate to 83.7%.
In our Retail/Long Term Care business revenues increased 12.5% in the quarter to $19.9 billion driven primarily by strong pharmacy same-store sales growth as well as the addition of the Omnicare business.
Retail/Long Term Care exceeded our revenue guidance primarily due to the addition of the Target assets a couple of weeks earlier than planned as well as a lower generic dispensing rate than expected.
During the quarter GDR increased by approximately 155 basis points to 84%.
Turning to gross margin we reported 17.7% for the consolidated company in the quarter a contraction of approximately 15 basis points compared to Q4 2014 and again consistent with our expectations.
Within the PBM's segment gross margins improved approximately 45 basis points versus Q4 2014 to 5.6% while gross profit dollars increased 20.5% year-over-year.
The increase in gross profit was primarily due to increases in volumes the improvement in GDR and favorable rebate and purchasing economics.
Partially offsetting these drivers was the impact of client and drug mix as well as continued price compression.
The improvement in gross margin rate in the PBM was primarily due to the timing of Medicare Part D profits.
Now gross margins in the Retail/Long Term Care Segment was 30.2% down 125 basis points from LY.
The decline was primarily driven by continued pressure on reimbursement rates and to a lesser degree the addition of the Omnicare business which carried a lower margin than retail.
Partially offsetting these were the increases in GDR and a strong front store margin improvement aided by continued rationalization of our promotional strategies and improved product mix.
Gross profit dollars increased 8% throughout the quarter.
Turning to operating expenses operating profit and the tax rate the numbers that I'm citing exclude acquisition related costs and the legal charge where applicable.
Total operating expenses as a percentage of revenues notably improved from Q4 2014 to 10.7%.
The PBM segment's SG&amp;A rate improved 10 basis points to 1.3% and SG&amp;A as a percent of sales in the Retail/Long Term Care Segment improved significantly by 190 basis points to 19.4%.
This was driven by lower advertising costs due to last year's rebranding campaign following our tobacco exit lower legal costs and the addition of the Omnicare business which carries lower SG&amp;A relative to sales.
Within the corporate segment SG&amp;As were up approximately $10 million to $215 million within our expectations.
Operating margin for the total enterprise improved approximately 75 basis points in the quarter to 7%.
Operating margin to PBM improved by approximately 55 basis points to 4.3% while operating margin at Retail/Long Term Care Segment improved approximately 65 basis points to 10.7% on our adjusted basis.
For the quarter operating profit growth in each segment was in line with expectations with the PBM increasing a very solid 26.8% and the Retail/Long Term Care Segment growing 19.8% again on our adjusted basis.
Going below-the-line on the consolidated income statement net interest expense in the quarter increased approximately $145 million from LY to $276 million due primarily to the debt associated with the acquisitions that we took on last year.
Our effective tax rate in the quarter was 38.9% and our weighted average share count was 1.1 billion shares.
For the year our effective tax rate was 39.1% just slightly lower than expected.
So with that now let me touch on our 2016 guidance which again remains essentially unchanged from Analyst Day.
You can find the details in the slide presentation that we posted on our website but I'll focus on the highlights here.
In 2016 we continue to expect to deliver adjusted earnings per share which excludes amortization in the range of $5.73 to $5.88 reflecting very healthy year-over-year growth.
GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is still expected to be in the range of $5.28 to $5.43.
Keep in mind that we have not included any estimate of integration costs from Omnicare nor Target in either range.
We'll of course report those as we progress throughout the year but they are excluded from our guidance.
We expect consolidated net revenue growth of 17% to 18.5% reflecting solid growth across the enterprise and we expect consolidated operating profit margin to decline by 40 basis points to 50 basis points.
The first quarter guidance also remains unchanged.
We expect consolidated net revenue growth of 17% to 18.5%.
And as you may recall we highlighted several timing factors at Analyst Day that affect the cadence of profits delivery throughout the year.
And while 2016 is expected to be a strong year the cadence of profit growth is expected to be significantly back half weighted.
We expect adjusted earnings per share which excludes amortization to be in the range of $1.14 to $1.17 while GAAP diluted EPS from continuing ops is expected to be in the range of $1.03 to $1.06 in the first quarter.
Additionally our free cash flow guidance for the year which includes acquisition related activities remains in the range of $5.3 billion to $5.6 billion.
In closing I want to say that I'm very pleased with the company's significant cash flow generation capabilities.
I believe these capabilities will continue to play an important role in driving shareholder value over the long term.
To that point 2016 will be another year in which we demonstrate our ongoing commitment to returning value to our shareholders through both share buybacks as well as through the increase in our dividend.
And with that I'll now turn it back over to Larry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thanks Dave and let me just reiterate how pleased we are with our strong performance across 2015 along with the continued progress that we're making in leveraging our integrated assets at CVS Health that's bringing innovative channel agnostic solutions to the market.
I also want to take a minute to thank and recognize the efforts of our more than 240 000 colleagues that are committed to our purpose and working hard each and every day helping people on their path to better health.
So with that let's go ahead and open it up for your questions.
Thank you.
Our first question coming from the line of Lisa Gill with JPMorgan.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Great.
Thanks very much and good morning.
Thank you very much for all the detail.
I just wanted to follow up on a couple of things.
The first of which is maybe can you talk about the 2016 opportunities for uptake in some of the different programs whether you talk about specialty on both sides? Larry you talk about the opportunity at Target to bring people into your specialty program Maintenance Choice et cetera.
What do you have specifically in the guidance? And then secondly Jon can you talk about again as you think about what people are taking on in 2016 whether it's National Preferred Formulary or Specialty or some of the other programs that we see and as we move throughout the year what's some of the opportunities are? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Lisa good morning.
I'll take the first part and then flip it over to Jon.
As you think about Lisa the benefits from the acquisitions we touched on it at a very high level in the prepared remarks.
If you look at Omnicare we've got a number of pilots that have just begun to kick off that would focus on the revenue synergy side of the equation acknowledging that we see opportunities across the spectrum in skilled nursing assisted living and the independent living spaces.
And I think as we've been talking for quite a while now those opportunities will really manifest themselves across our retail business.
So I think again it's early in the process and the benefits that we'll see from that we don't expect to begin to come online until the second half of the year.
And I think Lisa it's a similar story with Target.
We've got a lot of heavy lifting to do when you think about the store and system conversions 1 700 of those.
At the same time we've had a lot of practice with that.
And as I mentioned in the remarks the pilot stores have gone extremely well.
So we are now in rollout mode and it'll take the better part of the next six months seven months to complete those activities.
So that's really when you'll begin to see the marketing efforts ramp up.
So the benefits that we'll see from beginning to create customer conversion within the Target stores with the Target guests again I think that's going to be more of a second-half impact.
And Larry is the right way to think about this is that this will be a multiyear growth opportunity from margin as well as rolling out these programs so it's not just the back half of this year but to layer on to this over a multi-year period? Is that the right way to think about this? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Lisa that's exactly the right way to look at it because again it's going to take time to market and on both whether we're talking about Target or Omnicare in terms of the opportunities.
So it will phase in over time and you're right we see it as a multiyear opportunity.
And that's...
CVS/caremark</span></strong> And then Lisa as far as what we're seeing in 2016 as you recall back in 2014 we saw double-digit pharmacy trend.
That was primarily driven by branded inflation branded price increases and we're seeing that same dynamic in 2016 as well.
So clients have never been more open to adopting plan designs to control these costs.
And I'd really think about that it in three primary buckets.
First is channel.
So the ability to adopt our Maintenance Choice programs which were now up over 23 million members participating in that program and network solutions preferred network solutions for Medicare as an example and narrowing the network in commercial and managed Medicaid.
So continue to see lots of interest in those plans designs.
And also lots of interest with formulary plan designs and we offer options from excluding formulary for our template clients.
We introduced that back in 2012 all the way to much more aggressive formularies where we essentially take most of the brands off the formularies that really is the most effective tool we have to managing trend because it gets rid of the branded inflation.
And then the third primary bucket is really all the solutions we have in specialty from exclusive specialty to site of care to aggressive formulary solutions and specialty.
So we do continue to see a lot of interest.
We see employers able to make decisions faster in adopting these plan designs.
We do see health plan much more interested than they've ever been in these plan designs but their adoption rate is slower.
They may have to sell these plan designs into their downstream clients.
And as you recall as our clients adopt these plan designs and we lower their costs we generally see more share move into our channels.
So it clearly is a win-win.
Is there any way for you or for Dave to actually quantify some of these numbers.
You talked about Maintenance Choice being in 23 million members but can you give us an idea of how many people have adopted this year to go into more of a narrow formulary or any your narrow specialty or any of those other things? Just so we can get an idea of what the progression has been like and what we should expect it to look like in 2016? Lisa we don't disclose that information at this point in time.
So unfortunately we can't do that right now.
Okay.
I had to try.
Thanks Dave.
You're welcome.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Lisa.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Edward Kelly with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah hi.
Good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Ed.
So I have a question for you on the retail gross margin.
Just the headline number itself the decline was a little bit more I think than what the Street was looking for and obviously the Street number maybe wasn't right.
But I guess the question really is how do you think about you mentioned reimbursement rate pressure how do you think about reimbursement rate pressure look this quarter relative to trend and your expectation? And was the margin this quarter really any different than what you were sort of thinking about going in? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Ed it's Larry.
It's a great question.
I mean what we saw in the fourth quarter Ed was consistent with our expectations and quite frankly consistent with what we saw in the third quarter.
And as we've been talking about the reimbursement pressure the way we think you should be looking at this is we're not seeing really any dynamic change in the cadence of reimbursement pressure.
As we look forward into 2016 we've got the ebbs and flows in terms of the offsets that exist in terms of how we can leverage against that reimbursement pressure and we outlined many of those variables at Analyst Day last month.
Yeah Ed this is Dave.
I'd begin  consistent with what Larry said is that our gross margin was in line with our expectations but a couple of things to just note is obviously we added the Omnicare business which carries a little bit lower rate.
Secondly our GDR as we said was a little light in retail as brand was a little heavy.
So therefore that affected the gross margin but still well within our guidance expectations.
Okay.
And just one quick follow-up here for you on the upcoming or current PBM selling season.
Can you maybe just talk a little bit about how the opportunity looks from a mix standpoint? So last year you had a lot of success right a lot of it was in the health plan side.
How does the mix of the opportunity look like in the current year coming up? Is there potential for more self-insured employer type wins? Any color that you can provide there would be good.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Ed again it's early.
I mean as we look at where we stand at this point in time the RFP activity is probably on par with what we've seen in prior years.
If you looked at our renewal business we've got about $22 billion up for renewal.
There is nothing out of the norm in terms of it skews within a segment one way or another.
So we kind of view it as just a normal selling season and I'll flip it over to Jon and see if he has any.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Yeah remember we had just $14 billion selling season with 80% of it health plans but we still had a very successful selling season with employers and with state government.
So if our win rate returns to a more normal selling season I think the mix that you'll see will be more normal than what we saw this past year.
So we're expecting a very active selling season.
Obviously the health plans are out now and we expect the large employers and the state plans to be out over the next several months.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Eric Percher with Barclays.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Eric Percher and Meredith Adler here from Barclays.
So maybe staying with the health plan topic I guess my first question would be are there unique challenges in on-boarding this level of or this magnitude of health plan customers or is the primary challenge getting the margin and getting the adoption that you want to occur over the year? And then also have there been particular tools or studies on adherence on cost over the last year that you've seen really drives the adoption and wins in the health plan segment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Eric it's Larry.
Maybe I'll start then ask Jon and Dave to jump in.
Eric in following your questions there in terms of on-boarding those clients again I think the investments that we've made over the last couple of years from a technology and process and organization alignment I think have really paid off the last two welcome seasons.
Back to my prepared remarks you think about the fact 9 million new members this past January 16 million new CVS Caremark lives over the last two years combined with very high levels of service.
We are extremely pleased with the work of the organization in terms of on-boarding those clients with no disruptions.
So that has been checked the box there.
I think if you go back to some of the things we talked about at Analyst Day I think the challenge different than the employer segment is how we create more alignment with the health plan sales organization to sell in those unique and differentiated products and services and begin to do some different things there in terms of creating better incentive alignment to allow that to be more of a priority among the many priorities that these health plans have.
And I think we're beginning to get some traction around that.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> And .I think this is Jon on the adherence front I think you just have to look at the Medicare Star plans and what they measure and about half of what they measure for MAPD as an example was around adherence.
And so we've done our own internal studies that say if you have 100 000 seniors they have about $1.1 billion in overall healthcare costs and if we could make every one of those members adherent to their medication and we could fill in gaps in therapy that they have then we could reduce the overall medical cost by over $200 million.
So CMS gets this.
This is why they weight adherence so heavily in their evaluation of plans and nobody is better positioned than we are with our integrated channels to reach members and talk to them about adherence and improve their adherence and that's why three out of four of the health plans that are in the Medicare business that we support are either four-star or five-star plans.
And we see similar activity in the commercial space as well.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Eric just two other points reinforcing Jon's comments.
We just published a study within the last couple of weeks that when you look at Specialty Connect there is an 11% improvement in adherence for those patients who utilize that service.
At the same time reflecting on Jon's comments when you think about some of the expectations that have been set for value-based reimbursement or outcomes-based reimbursement whatever phraseology you want to use and some of the targets that have been established for 2018 and beyond I think our differentiated products and services are really in a great sweet spot to be able to deliver on those expectations.
Inc.</span></strong> Very good.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Eric.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of George Hill with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
I guess Larry if we come back to reimbursement pressure on the retail side can you talk about the pockets where you're using the most pressure either from a product perspective or from a payer perspective? We know the Med D books are competitive.
We know pressure on generics is competitive.
But I guess any kind of incremental color you give there would be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well George I would say it probably has more to do with the mix shift.
Okay? And when you look at  as you look at pharmacy growth we are seeing higher growth rates in government-sponsored care Medicare and Medicaid.
And as we've said those segments while very productive from a utilization and a revenue growth perspective typically carry lower margin rates.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe a quick follow-up is Larry I'd just love your broader thoughts around the growing negative drug industry rhetoric.
It just seems to be getting more aggressive at every angle and targeting every participant in the system whether it's Med D you had the formation of the health transformation alliance last week you have CMS taking another look at Med D it seems.
I guess just how do you combat that? And how do you quantify the risks of more dramatic government intervention in the space? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well George listen it's a great question.
And when you think about responding to that you really think about what clients hire us to do.
Okay? And they expect us to work hard on their behalf in terms of how do we provide high levels of service for their members at the lowest possible costs.
And we've talked about the variety of ways in which we do that and we're very pleased with what we've been able to do.
Okay? And the tools that we've been able to provide for our clients again they've got the option of how aggressive they want to be in terms of utilizing those tools.
But we think the results of that will be reflected in our trend report that will be coming out within the next several weeks.
Okay.
And it's our focus.
And I think George we've got to be careful that private-sector innovation I think has done a lot with which to satisfy the objective right drug right patient at the lowest possible cost.
And if you look at Med D as an example it was 2006.
It's almost a decade later now and when you look at the estimates of what CBO had predicted the cost of that would be 10 years ago and what it's costing today it's a fraction of that which I think is one of the key reasons for that is private-sector innovation and the fact that competition ultimately drives down costs.
So I think there's going to be a lot of crosscurrents as we go through an election year and we'll just continue to work hard to tell our story and bring innovation in an effort to do what clients are hiring us to do.
And quite frankly we believe they are satisfied in what we're doing apropos to the new business that we've won the last couple of years.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate the color.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of John Heinbockel with Guggenheim Securities.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey Larry.
A question about the sort of evolution of new customer acquisition.
So when you look at on-boarding the 16 million lives here in the last two years as they go into your system you think about the first couple of years they are with you is the growth rate with those customers those lives a lot higher than kind of more mature lives right because of all the different products you're selling to them is that the case? And then in a case where you have 16 million lives over two years if that's true is that enough? You think of the growth coming from those 16 million lives is that enough to move the overall enterprise growth rate in a visible way? Or no just kind of blends into your historical growth rate? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well John it's Larry.
I'll start and I know others will jump in here.
John your answer to that in part lies in terms of the client makeup and the client adoption of those differentiated services.
So a client who is adopting Maintenance Choice and it's a new client obviously we're going to see a rapid uptake of share coming into one of our distribution channels because that's the nature of that plan design.
I think if you go back and again reflecting on some of the things we talked about at Analyst Day this past year a big piece of that new growth is in the health plan segment and as you look at our enterprise share of those health plan clients it's in the low 20%s.
So obviously that creates a big opportunity and that's something that will occur at a much slower rate than a client who adopts Maintenance Choice.
So obviously a lot of opportunity and opportunity that we'll see cascade over the life of that contract.
So I mean this is not only I don't know if this is the biggest two-year period of customer acquisition that you've had.
I think it may be.
It's not only that but also the makeup and where you are with your programs.
This actually is probably a more significant driver or could be than what you've seen historically.
Right because of the mix of the plans and where you are with your programs.
John this is Dave.
I think that's right.
I would just caution you a little bit.
If you look at the sales win certainly for as we cycle into 2016 largely health plan.
Health plans as Jon articulated earlier it just takes a while for them to sell in their program.
So obviously the name of the game here has been let's gain the life and then quite frankly make the life more productive as we move some volume into our channel and save the client money.
In health plans that just takes a little longer.
I think the uptake the ramp of that will just  the slope of that was a little  it's not as steep as when compared to the employer clients.
And then just quickly on Omnicare.
When you think about market share evolution in the various sub segments they're in so how do you think about that? Is most of the share gain I assume will be organic? Do you think M&amp;A plays a role? And then when you look at share say relative to your share in the retail business ultimately down the road I would guess the share in long-term care would be substantially greater than what you have in the retail side or could be? Yeah John it's Dave here.
I do think that the market is still pretty fragmented so I do think there is I'll say (50:45) type opportunities within the market space and you'll see us continue to probably do that within the long-term care business.
And then I think as you look at the long-term care business you're going to need to look at it in kind of different client categories.
I think from a skilled nursing facility perspective it's all about growing the number of beds I think from a assisted living facility it's really designing products and solutions that capture more of those members within the beds that we have while adding beds as well.
But there's more of I'd say a product development set that needs to happen there for share capture and share gain.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And John I think the only thing I'd add that goes back to Lisa's question earlier that there we've spent enough time with the long-term care clients to understand their pain points and their needs and that's what's driving some of the pilots that we have underway.
And I do believe that recognizing that to some degree long-term care is episodic and you got 2 million patients that are being discharged each year back into the home.
And being able to provide differentiated services for the client and the facility operator okay and then again be able to follow those patients across their continuum of care is a significant opportunity to grow share and again that will continue to evolve over time over a multiyear period.
But I think we're excited by the opportunities that we see there.
Thank you.
Thank you for your question.
Our next question coming from the line of David Larsen with Leerink Partners.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Can you talk about your expectations for Hep C spend in 2016 and 2017? And as new products come to market from additional manufacturers how can you help your clients reduce their overall spend while earning incremental profits for yourself? And then what sort of appetite is there from your client base in terms of pushing specialty spend from medical into pharmacy and using restricted networks more aggressively? Thanks.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Hey Dave.
This is Jon.
So Hep C volume I think has leveled off as we are into 2016 down a little bit from where we were last year.
Merck launched their new product had a list price $54 000 and that is less expensive than the other products on the market like Harvoni.
So we'll evaluate these new products and negotiate the best deal for our clients and we continually evaluate our formulary selections.
And we'll do the same as these new products come to market.
I think as we look out to 2016 or 2017 we haven't seen a lot of treatment in the Medicaid space.
They've had real stringent utilization programs.
So I think the question is as these drugs become more affordable can we begin to see more treatment in that area and the CMS came out with some guidance actually encouraging the Medicaid providers to do that.
So you could potentially see an uptick in treatment if we see that movement from the Medicaid plans.
I think as far as specialty we see clients very interested in doing more to manage specialty under the medical benefit.
It's not being well-managed today.
So we have a tool if they don't want to move it over to pharmacy benefit that's NovoLogix.
We have over 30 million members that we're managing with that tool today and it brings all the management that we have on the pharmacy side but we also have an opportunity to move specialty from the medical side into the pharmacy benefit.
Not that you'll ever get the majority of it over there but there are opportunities to do more.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Mark Wiltamuth with Jefferies.
Please proceed with your question.
Hi.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about the specialty growth of 32%.
Was that inclusive of Omnicare? Or Omnicare about 5% of that number? Just if you could give us the organic growth rate that might help.
And then is there any way you can really characterize how much the Specialty Connect is helping you with customer acquisition? Because I would imagine that's helping keep some of those specialty customers from leaking out to other channels as you capture them on the front.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mark the 32% growth does include the ACS the Specialty component from Omnicare.
It was a relatively small piece of the growth.
I'll ask Jon to comment in terms of the market reaction to Specialty Connect.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Specialty Connect really opened up a pain point in specialty that exists in the marketplace today and that's access.
So now a specialty patient can walk into any one of our 9 600 retail pharmacies and get the same high levels of service because we've integrated them into our backend specialty platform.
You get the same high levels of service.
We see similar adherence.
So it's been favorably received by specialty patients.
And how we know that is it acts very similarly to Maintenance Choice.
We see half the patients want to pick up their specialty prescription at their local CVS that are using Specialty Connect and the other half want to mail to their home.
So it really opens up the convenience.
So for our clients where we are the exclusive specialty provider it enhances service.
It's enhancing revenue from the open market where we are competing with other specialty pharmacies.
So physicians that are much more active in referring patients in the specialty space than in the non-specialty space like the capabilities and the service that we deliver.
So we think it's a real competitive advantage in the marketplace.
And any rough volumes you are doing there that are going through the pharmacy itself? I know you said 50% but what's the volume number coming through there? CVS/caremark</span></strong> Well it was 50% of the members that are coming through Specialty Connect.
50% of them want to pick up their Specialty scripts at CVS Pharmacy.
So it's not  just to be clear it's not 50% of our overall volume.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Mark the other thing I'd just point out as a reminder okay this gets back to our focus on managing the CVS Health Enterprise because from a financial point of view everything that Jon articulated whether the point of access is the retail pharmacy from a financial point of view it goes through the PBM segment.
And we're not worried about  in this example you could say we're penalizing the retail pharmacy.
We don't look at it that way because we believe it's a unique and integrated product that is allowing us to capture incremental share in the market which is good for the CVS Health Enterprise.
Hey Mark.
This is Dave.
I just  back to your original question about ACS.
If you look in specialty for the full year growth rate was approximately 34%.
If you excluded the specialty that came through ACS through Omnicare growth would be above 30%.
Okay.
So fairly small impact from a growth rate perspective.
Most of the growth's coming from the core.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Ricky Goldwasser with Morgan Stanley.
Please proceed with your question.
Yeah hi.
Good morning.
Couple of questions here.
First of all front-end comps are holding really well in December.
We're hearing a lot of questions about recession and impact to consumer behavior.
Maybe you can share with us what you're seeing kind of like year-to-date into February in the stores from a consumer behavior side? President - CVS/pharmacy</span></strong> Yeah I would just say overall I'd say things are holding fairly steady.
We certainly have seen the consumer  I wouldn't say any change really from what we were seeing in the fourth quarter.
I think the big thing we've been focused on and continue to focus on is being smart about where we invest our margin dollars so you can see us continue to downplay our circulars and really focus on ExtraCare which is allowing us to find those high-value customers and make sure they're coming into our stores.
Okay.
And then on the 2016 cadence obviously Dave the year is second half loaded.
So can you just remind us what are the drivers that will kick in later in the year when we're going to see kind of like the accelerated earnings growth? And just to make sure in terms of the cadence can you maybe kind of like just help us clarify to make sure we get it right on the model kind of like how we should think about kind of like what percent of earnings is going to be in the first half versus second half? Yeah from a cadence perspective a lot of  I'll point you back to a couple of slides that I put together at Analyst Day back in December but it really relates back to one is the acceleration of growth from a Medicare Part D perspective and as that growth occurs those profits are back half weighted so that clearly tilts the cadence delivery profit delivery to the back half versus the first half.
Secondly we have several initiatives underway both as we look at the acquisitions but more importantly as we look at different efforts that we have across our business.
Many of those initiatives deliver benefit in the back half versus the first half and probably most importantly is the timing and cadence of break-open generics.
Those are largely back half weighted so you'll see the impact of that flow through in quarters three and four versus Q1 and Q2.
So those are the major elements of how to think about that.
We have not broken out specifically the percent of front half versus second half.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Charles Rhyee with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please proceed with your question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Charles? Mr.
Rhyee we cannot hear you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Why don't we go on to the next one? Maybe Charles will get back in the queue.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research.
Please proceed with your question.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
So I just wanted to get back into a topic that was earlier on the call just talk about the healthcare plans and up selling your guys' products and services through them.
I guess what are the mechanisms that you can use to get the healthcare plans to  or the incentives you can use to get them to do it? And then also kind of a corollary is the pressure on healthcare costs we talked about the election does that actually help you? You obviously guys have very good cost-saving tools.
And then the final part of that is should we think of any upsells as more impacting 2017 or can that actually help 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Scott it's Larry.
Let me take the last question and then I'll flip over to Jon okay back to the first question.
I'm going to go back to a slide that we had at Analyst Day that show that  and I mentioned this in response to an earlier conversation.
The health plan business that came online last month we have 22% share across our distribution channel.
When we look at the overall health plan enterprise share it's right around 28% okay for existing health plan clients.
So again there is an awful lot of white space as we've been talking about in terms of opportunities to grow that acknowledging that that growth is over time.
We talk a lot about the fact that when you look at the employer segment with the stroke of one's signature the Head of HR and the Head of Benefits can make a decision that several thousand employees are governed by.
And as we've been talking this morning it works a lot differently across the health plan space.
So with that context I'll flip it over to Jon.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> Yeah so with our health plans they have their own downstream clients and their downstream clients are no different than our clients that pharmacy is a bigger part of their healthcare spend than it's ever been and it's the fastest-growing part of their healthcare spend.
So they are very interested and motivated to sell our products and services to better manage these costs.
What we have been able to do over the last 12 months to 18 months is actually create financial incentives for the health plan sales team to actually create compensation for them as they sell these programs in.
So their clients win they win and we win.
So we think we've got very good alignment with our health plans now and they are very motivated based on what's happened in the marketplace over the last several years to get these plan designs implemented.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And Scott your other question just does the election have any impact in terms of how clients look at this I don't think it does.
Okay? I mean I think whether it's a health plan client an employer client everyone is focused on  listen how do I provide the right level of service for my members at the lowest possible cost.
So I think what we're seeing play out every night on TV I think is kind of irrelevant to their goals and objectives.
And a quick follow-up to that Larry.
Do you think the  because you guys do save people money do you think an economy that maybe has a little trouble could actually help you upsell? And would it come through I guess it comes through your pharmacy comps where we'd see some of this.
Is that correct? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Scott I think it does because we've got products and services that I know as our Head of Sales talks about.
I could remember years ago when I was out selling the dream of what we might be able to do and today I'm selling the results of what these products do.
So they've been proven to when we think about access quality and cost we can sit down and quantify those benefits around each.
All right.
Perfect.
Thanks very much.
Appreciate the answers.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Steven Valiquette with UBS.
Please proceed with your question.
Thanks.
Good morning Larry and Dave.
So just a couple of quick ones for me.
First I think the new AMP based FUL reimbursement is finally going into effect on April 1.
Any expected impact on your retail labs? I know Medicaid was just a small part of the mix but also maybe just for Omnicare in particular given that might be a little bit larger part of their mix curious to get your thoughts on that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Steve it's Larry.
I mean when you look at  keep in mind this is now probably 10 years in the making that as you look across the states about half of the states have already implemented some type of acquisition cost based reimbursement or Managed Medicaid.
So they are immune to AMP.
And I think it's consistent with what we've been talking about that the objective of AMP we have been seeing for the last several years in the form of reimbursement pressures.
I think as you look at the remaining states they'll be  it's our understanding that states will have 12 months with which to implement some type of acquisition reimburse  acquisition cost reimbursement model and along with corresponding changes in dispensing fees.
So I think as we sit here today we think we believe that the rollout across the rest of the country with this will be immaterial to our results.
But again I think that's going to play out on a state-by-state basis acknowledging that states that have implemented that have made adjustments in dispensing fees and so more to come on that.
Okay.
And then the other quick one I'm not sure if you heard but there is a large health plan PBM contract to the marketplace that maybe you guys do a market check with one of your peers.
My other question on this is just curious if you have any general thoughts you want to share on the situation from the CVS Caremark perspective.
Or do you prefer just to leave that alone? I thought I'd just throw it out just in case you wanted to comment on that.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah you know what Steve? I guess I'd answer that question by saying nice try.
Okay? Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
We've got  I think we'll go ahead and take two more questions.
Thank you.
Our next question coming from the line of Robert Jones with Goldman Sachs.
Please proceed with your question.
Great.
Thanks for squeezing me in.
I guess just to go back to the retail gross margin question.
If I recall you guys were calling for a moderate decline in 4Q.
And it sounds like the results this quarter were if I'm hearing you correctly in line with your expectations.
I think we were down about 125 basis points year-over-year.
I think if I look out across 2016 this obviously seems to be a metric that obviously can be pretty volatile move the needle for folks.
The guidance for 2016 is down significantly.
Not to get too cute (1:10:06) with the words here but should we take that to mean that you're expecting the core retail gross profit margin to be down more in 2016 than kind of what we saw in 3Q and 4Q of 2015? Well this is Dave.
We stand by our guidance.
We as we look at the trends going through where we are today we see nothing that's any different.
Again this continues to be an evolving marketplace driven largely by the mix of our business.
Medicare and Medicaid continues to accelerate and grow more rapidly than some other lines of business.
Secondly as we indicated before is with the large win in the health plan business from a PBM perspective the adoption of those programs that move share into our channel just take longer.
It's longer for those to mature and for that adoption to occur.
And so the offsets as we think about 2016 are just not available to us.
Okay.
And then I guess just a follow-up actually on the last question.
I'm not going to ask you specifically to comment on the very public negotiation going on with your large PBM competitor but what I do think is important is the repercussions it could have on the 2017 selling season.
So on that specifically I'm curious if you guys would have any comments or questions or any early reads on some of the feedback you're getting from the market as far as what clients are asking for as far as pricing given obviously I think this public negotiation has dragged a lot of things so far into the light and obviously could drag a lot more things into the light as we progress through the selling season.
CVS/caremark</span></strong> I mean this is Jon.
We made a decision several years ago that health plans were going to be an important growth vehicle for us particularly when you looked at the growth coming from Medicare and Medicaid.
So we work hard to keep our health plans competitive in the marketplace.
So we're not really seeing any repercussions or halo to pricing in the marketplace from that event.
But I think it continues to be competitive but rational.
And I don't expect there to be an impact.
Okay.
Thanks for the questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Bob.
Final question? Thank you.
Our final question coming from the line of Mohan Naidu with Oppenheimer.
Please proceed with your question.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you very much for squeezing me in.
Larry maybe can we talk about the efforts that you guys are applying around the MinuteClinic? Is there an opportunity to expand beyond the basic services that you guys provide right now? And any leverage that it can use from your health system relationships in there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Mohan it's a great question.
As we've stated previous this past summer we completed the rollout of our Epic EHR across all of our clinics.
And that does a couple of things for us.
One is it does provide an infrastructure that allows us to expand our scope and broaden our scope of practices.
And you're beginning to see that now as we're getting into the treatment of some additional conditions.
And that does create a tighter interface with the health system affiliations where we can transmit the information around a particular patient in a seamless fashion.
So we're beginning to get some traction in terms of triaging patients across the delivery of care.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's great.
Maybe just a quick follow-up.
You guys are still targeting about 1 500 clinics by 2017? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah we've said that we have that target of 1 500 clinics.
I think with the acquisitions we may not hit that number by 2017.
Obviously we're going to be focusing on the Target integration which includes about 80 clinics this year.
So we may be a year or two behind that original target of 2017 but we continue to be comfortable with the rollout.
As a matter of fact as we sit here today about 50% of the U.S.
population actually lives within 10 miles of a MinuteClinic.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's great.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions Larry.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Okay.
Thank you and let me just take a minute to thank everyone for your continued interest in CVS Health and as always if anyone has any follow-up questions you can contact Nancy Christal.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude the conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.
Have a great day.